ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u1	The session is open. Let's start with the legislative text. Debate taken into account by the G.P. Mixing, modification of the record scale of the equity self-tax
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u2	For the presentation of the bill Mr. Villares has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u3	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. We bring to this House today a debate that we know is not new. Of course, since En Marea we have been insisting on this concrete tax figure years, specifically since last year, when it was announced and finally unilaterally approved by the People's Party a fall in tax on heritage. At that time we did not politically comply with a reform that seemed unfair to us, which seemed to us to be regressive in terms of fiscal justice and which was therefore contrary to the principles of what should be a fair tax system in a social and democratic state like this in which we live. So by not conforming to this download, and it's been a year since that moment, we believe it is necessary to bring to the House a reform to raise the property tax to the richest in Galicia. And yes, we are going to face the debate directly in these terms: to raise the property tax to the richest people, because we think it is necessary to recover in the political debate the idea of what is the function of paying taxes, whether it is fair or not the payment of taxes, and in this case that payment is. Why do we bring the debate now? So let us bring the debate now — it is obvious — because we are in full budgetary debate. It is time for political debate — it has been said yesterday on repeated occasions — most important of the year. Of course, it is of paramount importance, because all the policies that the different groups formulate in this House and in the street, in society as a whole, black on white, proposals for alternatives to policies on how to deal with the expansion of rights and the expansion of public freedoms, must always be backed up by an economic memory to make everything that is formulated possible through a public action that has costs. And because we are in the essential debate on expenditure and income, we therefore think that this is the time for this debate to take place. Budgets, in addition, are often dealt with mainly from the point of view of expenditure, but rarely are used to give the debate fully from the point of view of income. And since En Marea we think that the main problem of public accounts is not whether or not there is enough to spend from the perspective of expenditure, but whether there is sufficient resources to meet social needs. We think that budgets should be made in reverse of how they are done, not starting with the expenditure ceiling and then seeing the maximum how it is distributed; but rather seeing, from a competitive point of view, what competences and functions the Autonomous Community has, what rights to satisfy, what social needs must be covered, what policies of promotion must be implemented, budgeted and, from that point of view, give the debate on obtaining the necessary resources. The democratic public estate of any state has to look for those resources wherever they exist, it has to look for the wealth wherever it is found. That is why it is necessary for the different tax figures in force to take this principle into account: we must seek wealth wherever it exists. We are therefore in the face of a debate on fiscal justice, public resources and public services, because that debate on the allocation of incomplete public resources would be left if we were not talking about fiscal justice. Everyone, repeatedly these days, but also throughout the year since this rostrum, launches many ideas that consist of spreading public policies that require resources. Well, we're now talking about those resources to be able to make those public policies. Social justice, ladies and gentlemen, that's what we're going to talk about today. In Marea, it believes in social justice, understood as the creation of a system of rights and balanced obligations; where the collection of resources is progressive, equitable and transparent; where the financing of public policies that are oriented towards the improvement of the quality of life of the citizenship set; that it achieves equal opportunities; that it can leave no one behind. And besides, a harmonic development of full equal opportunities, full employment, equality between women and men and respectful of our natural environment. This necessarily means moving forward in a process of redistribution of income and wealth that is able to reduce inequality and that promotes equity and social inclusion. A collection — which sets out our constitutional text — must be rejected by the principle of progress. For what? To search for wealth wherever there is, ladies and gentlemen, to look for the real economic capacity of the various actors involved in our country's economic system. I want to make a small contextualization of our constitutional system, and it is that the disruption of the contemporary and democratic states of the 19th century, and particularly the consolidation of the social and democratic rule of law in the first third of the 20th century, i.e. the contemporary constitutionalism of our surroundings, created an idea in society: the idea of the necessary justification of the exercise of legitimate power in the realization of values understood as moral goods that were appreciated by the whole population. In this way, the monopoly of state force only became legitimate if values were realized with it, if freedoms were guaranteed and rights were real that were initially only collected on paper. So there's a telelogical justification for the power of the state; teleological justification even of its ability and legitimacy to collect taxes, even in a co-active way. And this is only done if you're oriented towards meeting a series of values and guaranteeing a series of rights and freedoms that we as society have. The tax collection thus becomes an institutional function conditioned by the realization of these values. The collection is legitimate whenever it meets a number of features and serves to carry out a number of policies. On the characteristics of this collection — frequently referred to in this article — I would like to quote Article 31 of the Spanish Constitution: "All will contribute to the maintenance of public expenditure in accordance with their economic capacity, through a fair tax system, inspired by the principles of equality and progressiveness, and that in no case will have confiscatory scope". Well, ladies and gentlemen, within this context, for the realization of the values of the social state, of social democracy and also of the social autonomy in which we live, that is why we have come to address this reform of property tax, net property tax, deduced certain charges and certain taxes. The capital tax, ladies and gentlemen, defines a political problem: equity in the system, sufficient resources, care for social needs, employment promotion, equality, the fight against climate change, territorial cohesion. Finally, we want to address by means of wealth tax one of the incomes coming to the debate on the model of organised society in the form of a state, and in this particular case in the form of a Autonomous Community. Galicia is a country—disputably in this House—a nation, a historical nationality—as soon as it is recognised in the Constitution as such— organised in the form of an autonomous community; it has a tax system on what it has limited powers of self-regulation, and with this margin of provision it does what social autonomy and democratic autonomy should be. Define what a true democracy and an authentic autonomy of well-being should be. We have the state of well-being as a concept and, of course, the concrete idea, through this Parliament and the self-government institutions of Galicia, of self-being. The autonomy of well-being, ladies and gentlemen, is a sort of social pact, so the whole of Greek citizenship undertakes to sustain the expenses that originate in its functioning according to its economic capacities; we are therefore faced with a manifestation of that social contract. And it is that the Greek citizenship -- and that's what we understand since En Marea -- is willing to contribute with its taxes that this autonomy does not leave anyone behind, as long as that contribution is fair and worthwhile for something. So we must talk here about fiscal justice and the usefulness of that collection. Tax collection and justice utility. This is true of us in the last decade about the economic situation we're living for, which we've been through in the last decade, and also, why not, look to the future. First of all, it is necessary to bring this rostrum. During the last recession, in Galicia the rich have become richer, and have become richer even though the average of the rich in the Spanish state; these are official data to which I now dedicate myself to analyzing. From 2011 to 2017, according to the latest available data from the Tax Agency, the total assets in Galicia recorded an increase of 62%. While the bulk of the population suffered cuts, while the bulk of the population suffered growing and galloping unemployment and precariousness not previously seen in the labour and social character, ladies and gentlemen, Galicia's total heritage increased by 62%; i.e. from 25,413 million to 41,262 million. Was that heritage evenly distributed among the entire population of Galicia? Unfortunately not, ladies and gentlemen, and the social data in that regard are very eloquent. While this happened in Galicia—increasing wealth in few hands, in few fortunes—in the state as a whole, this increase was 55%. I mean, there was a paradox, while the bulk of the population lived progressively precariously and stripped of the resources necessary for its own subsistence, it generated wealth, and in addition that wealth concentrated on less and less hands. That recurring holder and sure that during the years of the economic recession in the state, during a recession that has passed in macroeconomic terms, but that as a right crisis has not yet happened because we live in a precarious condition that we do not leave and that we do not exceed, has resulted in five times the number of billionaires in the Spanish state and that the accumulation of assets on the part of these millionaires was completely scandalous in relation to how the population set lived. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this situation is already in itself not acceptable in terms of fiscal justice in the state as a whole, it has worsened further in Galicia, because that difference in assets has become even more evident. During these years, the total estate of the whole state has passed from 430,600 million to 669,000 million euros, the ability to accumulate on the great fortunes that did not have a correspondence in the rest of the estates of the whole mortals, of all of you, and certainly of most of the people who are listening to us. On the contrary, the course of property tax has evolved differently. There could be something different, ladies and gentlemen, that increases the heritage, that concentrates on a few hands, but that the tax system intervenes to locate the wealth where it accumulates most and, from there, with a fair tax regime, redistributes it to the population as a whole. However, ladies, that didn't happen that way. The legacy tax passed on to the autonomous communities has undergone a development that greatly diverges with the increase experienced by the total heritage, and thus the increase in the equity tax in the autonomous community itself was quite irregular, from EUR 620,000 to EUR 90 million in 2013, going down to the 78 million in 2017, and therefore already with a downward fall of 29% that has been aggravated by the change of that tax itself. I'd like to show you a chart before I continue the exhibition on the evolution of the heritage in our country during the time of the economic recession, during this last period already — seven years — in the first phase, in the regression phase of the cycle, the phase of the recession; and later, in the expansion phase, as it has evolved from the heritage of incomes, from the great fortunes of our country. Not from the rents, but from the great fortunes of our country. A graph that shows, among other things, how it was increasing wealth in few hands and that that wealth did not have a correlation in redistribution to the rest of the population. With the accumulated wealth you just saw, the decision of the Board was to lower the estate tax. An average reduction of 21% of the capital tax; almost – in annual terms – 2,000 euros per contributor. In view of the data I have just noted, the data from the Tax Agency indicate to us that the average liquidable base was reached in 2017 at EUR 1.31 million. That is, the average taxpayer of the estate tax had a net worth of 1,31 million euros, deducted from charges and taxes. I want to ask you how many of you are in this situation. Certainly none, and very few people are listening to us, because this is not the heritage of ordinary people, this is a tax of very rich people. Well, with this liquidable base, 1.31 million euros on average, and taking into account the tax burden imposed on 2018, this base would pay €10,073. With the new tariff implemented, this same average base would end up paying EUR 8,312, which means a 21% reduction. If we extrapolate this difference to the total number of declarants, the total difference is already about EUR 13 million. But besides, and going to the content of the Constitution itself, of Article 31, this property tax, which by itself is rich, made the super rich better because it had a regressive logic. The change carried out last year in this House kept a logical return in the following direction. Those who have a liquidable base of 10.6 million euros, which I suppose will be almost all of you, have been reduced by 0.53%, while those who have a liquidable base of 167,000 euros, the reduction is just 0.06%; that is, the richer, the more deduction there was in the quota.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u4	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u5	I'm going to finish now, Mr. President. More reduction in the quota because they're getting richer and richer. It's a reform that has been formulated in regression terms by antonomics. One key aspect that justifies the implementation of the estate tax is to correct the income inequality that occurs in the system, however, we are seeing that the reform implemented what I assumed was the greatest accumulation of assets in the capital itself. We think this situation needs to be reversed, which is why we bring this reform today, because we think that all the essential needs of the Greek society are not corrected. We saw yesterday in the debate what is the social situation in our country, what is the environmental situation and what is the situation with regard to equality. It is therefore necessary to have resources to overcome these inequalities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u6	Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u7	I'm done. This is the right tax to do it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u9	This is a reform that we understand is prudent and adjusted to the principles of fiscal justice, so we ask all of you to support your treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u10	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Round of parliamentary groups. Galego Nationalist Block, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u11	Good morning to all and to all. Mr. Villares started his speech by saying that this debate... because I can't scream anymore, that I am beginning to suffer from the diseases of winter. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] He said Mr. Villares started his speech saying that this debate was not new. This is common in parliamentary logic, where the various political forces insist on issues that seem to be priority under our political prism. But what I don't agree with is that it was the right time. We disagreed about that, because yesterday we had a full and exclusive budget, in which we were almost twelve hours debating proposals on this issue and in which we also pointed out that each wealth tax group feels. In fact, we've discussed four amendments to the whole difference, with their specifications, where each one of us shows what our ideal model is with respect to property tax, and in fact, we're going to continue doing it until December. In any case, it is not our intention to take part in the political agenda of the proposed group and, of course, we will vote in favour of the same way as we voted yesterday in favour of all the amendments to return together and that we have voted in favour of other proposals to the articulated, for example, with regard to property tax in other budgetary debates, although, as at this time, for example, the concrete proposal brought by the Mixed Group is somewhat different, although on the same ideological line as we have presented since the Nationalist Block of Wales in the amendments made last week. In any case, we can agree with the question of substance, which is that there is an important difference with the management of wealth tax; that we do not agree with the alternative that the People's Party has been developing over the last decade and that it would be good to open a presentation where we all could contrast which would be the ideal model. I wish Mr. Villares luck with his eagerness to seek the support of all groups this morning. I'm afraid that won't be the case, because we've had the experience of these last few years, when we set up the budget presentation, and we've devoted out of micro and out of camera time to the fiscal side and we haven't succeeded. In any case, we will not be impeded by this because it is obvious that we disagree with the People's Party model. For something — I insist — we also present these amendments and oppose the consequences that a clearly regressive tax agenda has brought us against the income redistribution needs that we have been living in in the last few years -- a socially worrying situation. I will not extend to recall here — as the proposed group has already reported — the maximum drift that has been reached in 2019 and that continues in these budgets, which already foresees an impact on the next year's own collection of 2020, but rather would like to add some reflection. The fact that we have today, according to the AROPE Report itself, more than 600,000 people, one out of every four Greeks, at risk of poverty and social exclusion means that we are failing to redistribute income, that we are failing in politics in order to bridge that social exclusion and that we are failing in a model in which, at a decade's notice, the working class has not recovered its rights or the impact of the economic crisis has fallen equally to society as a whole. These are not only the achievements of the real estate tax, but generally a fiscal and economic policy that we do not share. But it is true that the property tax is particularly scandalous. It's a downside -- we understand -- totally unnecessary to whoever else has, when, really, it should be the reverse line. So we don't share that road map of the German Government. In that sense, simply point out that for us this would be the start of a wider debate, a debate where we would have to review the entire fiscal policy of the Government and where we would also have to talk, in a broad sense, about the incomes of that financing system of what we have also discussed on other occasions, and another economic relationship with the State. In any case, the position of the Galician Nationalist Block is well known in this matter. We have a very long full today, so I won't extend anymore. We will simply vote in favour and we hope you will convince the majority group. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Joint Left Group, Mrs. Torregrosa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u13	Good morning, President. Good morning, ladies. The truth is, these arguments that were presented here in the proposed property tax amendment law are not new. As Mrs. Presas said, we'll talk about this yesterday. We believe that there is no doubt about the arguments, so we are going to support that initiative, of course. It's an initiative that makes it very clear that the political intentions of governments, right-wing policies, if they have a direct impact on the whole citizenship; that they do policies that are unfair and partial and that they benefit each other; that they harm most of them at the expense of a minority, which is what we reported yesterday. A statistic just made public shows the direct consequences of these policies applied to the recession. Since 2010, as already mentioned, the number of millionaires in Spain has increased by 500%, to nearly one million people. It doesn't look like the crisis was the same for all of us. It's unacceptable, because in 2010 they started applying Troica's austerity policies, cutting wages and rights, blaming the popular classes of living above our possibilities. But while this vast majority of society suffered this deterioration in living and working conditions, the number of millionaires multiplied by five. The crisis is clear — as we have often said — that it was a scam that we have paid a lot for the benefit of a number of people who are still benefiting from this type of tax measures. It was provoked to make, in fact, a deep redistribution of wealth in favour of 1% and against 99%. They're richer, but they pay less taxes. Tax policies designed by the PP governments, both here and in Madrid, were precisely in this direction: reducing or even nullifying taxation on wealth and great heritage, because the question is to have or not have. The tax benefits recognised in the 2020 budget project exceed EUR 450 million, and of them, a very important part is wealth taxes, successions and prayers. No doubt, the change in property tax in the sense proposed in this legislative initiative, which is to increase the tax burden on large estates, should be on the table of any government that wishes to at least correct the galloping inequality installed in our society, aggravated by the crisis and also by those regressive tax measures adopted by the right-wing governments. The budget project that we are discussing and working on these days, the budgets for 2020, collects a reduction in the forecast of income from the equity tax of 8.7 million euros. That decline in the resources that Junta will count on to meet public policies, social policies — as we have already said — is not the result of a decrease in the assets subject to taxation. No, basically the problem is the direct consequence of decisions on wealth exemptions up to the amount of one million euros. In particular, the reduction in the rate approved in the Budget Accompanying Act for 2019 which now unfolds its effects, due to the fact that the claim of property tax takes place on 31 December each year. The legislative initiative we are discussing today is to correct this change by increasing the tax rates on wealth tax and bringing greater progress to the current current rate, but what we have to remember and we cannot forget is that the main reduction in the tax on wealth is not the one that refers to the scale of recording, but to what it operates — as I have already said — on the minimum exemption. When the Central Government made the temporary recovery of the State capital tax in 2011, the Board exercised its regulatory capacity to raise the minimum exemption from € 108,000 to €700,000 in addition to the usual housing; this led to the fact that in Galicia the number of declarants with quotas to enter by the capital tax rose from €53,120 in 2007 to €6,598 in 2011; and the quota to enter, from €81,4 million to €51 million. The policy shift driven by Feijóo assumed that about 90% of the Greek taxpayers for the inheritance tax had ceased to be a seal and that there was a loss of income over EUR 30 million in that year of tax restoration. Which is not collected in fiscal profit memories because the minimum exempt element of tax is considered to be a structural element. According to the most recent reports by the Tax Agency on the collection of wealth tax for 2017, the number of returnees in Galicia is 7,335, with an average declared assets of EUR 5.2 million. That's the segment of the population of Galicia to which tax reductions are aimed. As we see, it is not most of us, even those who are here, who are already — no doubt — privileged ones. This is the segment of the population of Greece to which these reductions, as I have already said, have been adopted during these years in the inheritance tax and to which reductions are made in the succession tax contained in the Budget Accompanying Act for 2020. Following the restoration of the assets tax, the average assets declared in Galicia increased by an average annual rate of 7,7 % in the period 2011 to 2017. Galicia became in the seventh place below the communities with the lowest average heritage and was placed in the second position above among the communities with the highest average declared heritage, only surpassed by the Community of Madrid. In our amendment to the total budget for 2020 we propose the review of the capital tax, logically reducing this minimum exemption to 700,000 in 2011, eliminating the reduction of the rate included in the accompanying law of 2019 with the increase of the tax rates of the current recording scale. For Galicia, the -- less-partial -- reversal of the regressive tax measures adopted in 2011 and intensified over these years was an additional income greater than 52 million euros a year, taking into account the increase in the number of contributors and the evolution of the declared average assets; a fiscal model radically opposed to what you are defending from the People's Party, in particular the governments of the People's Party throughout the state, because the PP is moving dangerously towards a truly reactionary position, compatible with the far right, which is its clear ally. And here we have the agreement signed between PP and Vox to drive a fiscal reform that reflects this 99% bonus of succession tax and donations and, beyond that, in the autonomic framework of the IRPF tax, the autonomic frame of wealth tax, and other measures that we already know the payment they have. The only thing we have to say - as Mr Villares has already mentioned in his initiative - is that we refer to the Constitution, which I think is clear in its Article 31 and says that responsibility and support for public expenditure must be proportional to economic capacity and inspired by the principles of equality and progressiveness. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Torregrosa. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Porrit.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u15	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you, gentlemen. After yesterday's marathon, we kept talking about taxes. And what we're still debating is why we're betting. Of course, we are committed to a progressive tax system that contributes to correcting inequalities; to a tax system with greater weight in the taxation of wealth and with more weight in the incomes of capital; to a tax system that guarantees the principles gathered in the Spanish Constitution, of equality, progressiveity and effectiveness, that guarantee social justice. On the other hand, the People's Party bets on a regressive tax system, which rewards the rich, the great heritage, and which focuses on the weight of taxation in the incomes of work. At this point -- I said the other day -- public, private, pensioners and small self-employed people are the ones who contribute most to wealth. These are the statistics on the weight of transferable capital in the assets: 86.64%. The wealth tax is also called wealth tax, or fortune tax, is a tax that applies individually, not to annual income, but to the personal heritage of natural persons. In France it's called a tax of solidarity on fortune, and complements the tax on income in people with great heritage. Mr. Villares said yesterday that he had no relationship with the income tax. He expressly said that independently. Yes, there's a direct relationship between wealth tax and income tax, because there's a quota limitation and take the IRPF quota into account. Of course, we're going to support the proposal, but as you've already commented on the people who preceded me, this proposal has one point, which is the type of recording, but first you have to get to that scale to record. To determine the taxable base, a series of items are not considered. Apart from the usual housing, there are many other elements: pension plans, assets for an economic activity, objects for art or antiquity, the assets that are part of the historical heritage, and also the minimum exempt, set at EUR 700,000. On the side of our group, we have also amended this minimum exemption. As I was referring earlier to the relationship between wealth tax and income tax, it was commented yesterday and at the middle of last week that income tax types are the lowest in Galicia. Well, it's really not true, the minimum type is 9.5%. What you didn't say is that the maximum marginal type is the minimum of all communities. Well the minimum of all communities is not, beneath Madrid and Castile-Leon. Of course, the point is to see what model we want. The People's Party continues to bet on that regression model. The former director Ana Pastor has already said so in the debate: the elimination of wealth tax, succession tax and reductions in succession tax and income tax. Of course, we bet on tax justice so we can have social justice. And when the counselor said yesterday that we could talk about a generalized tax drop, of course, most citizens don't see it. Yesterday Mr. Feijóo, and also the advisor, said that the estate was taxed when they arrived at the Government and that the rate is the same as in 2005 and 2009. That's right. Here's a news from the year 2013 that I'm going to read textually: "I can see very important the pact to raise the type of inheritance tax, which will increase the collection by 8 million." This suba was the result of an amendment submitted by the PSdeG Group and negotiated with the People's Party: "Ppdeg's parliamentary spokesman, Pedro Puy, has emphasized that the agreement reached with the PSdeG to raise 20% of the rate of property tax is very important in a context of political turmoil, and has calculated that the change will amount to about 8 million euros additional on collection." I'm going to go to the last paragraphs. "It has rightly been justified that while the People's Group rejects the request for tax efforts to normal citizenship, in relation to those with lower or medium incomes, which would actually generate collection, if it had agreed to the transaction of this issue to better address the provision of social costs and employment policies. Puy has insisted that the property tax is the most redistributive figure available to the community." Well, it seems that the PP has since changed its orientation. If it's the same rate as in 2005 or 2009 but, of course, the situation has changed. The number of super rich increases by 74% since the return of wealth tax, but while the risk of poverty is polled in Galicia by around 19%. Poverty in Galicia has a woman's face. Of course, we are going to support this proposal, but it seems a bit inadequate. We have to go a little further, as Mrs. Presas said. We need to talk about the kid in this measure. We have to play the least free, because to reach that minimum free of 700,000 euros, we must of course have a lot of goods. And then you call my attention, too, that you don't take into account for all effects the same limit of property tax, because to buy a housing and apply minimum rates, the estate is set to 200,000 euros, plus 20,000 euros for each of the children. We therefore support the proposal, we are committed by a progressive tax system that corrects inequalities and by a tax system that heeds and respects the principles contained in Article 31 of the Constitution. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Porrit. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u17	Good morning, gentlemen. As everybody knows, tax systems have several targets. The first, logically, is that of the sufficient public expenditure, and then different objectives, of efficiency, of equity and also of economic growth and economic stability, and for that they have a wide range of tax resources. As you know, there are those who record their rents, whether from work or from the capital. There are those who record wealth; these are therefore those who record property or its circulation. And there are those who record consumption, both the generals, and the case of VAT, or the private ones, and the specific cases of special taxes. So to begin by referring to the bill proposal, I would like to remember that it is not the same income, which is the flow that comes from a good, of an asset; wealth, which is the value of that good that generates income. It often confuses income with wealth, when it's not exactly the same, and when we talk about taxation it's worth remembering. And the [...] consumption, which consists in the destruction of wealth. Certainly, with some exception, such as the general expenditure tax, which has practically not been implemented in any country, if we are talking about the goal of equality, the goal of equity, we must focus mainly on taxes that record income and taxes that record wealth, which each country -- among them -- has, over time, configured according to sociology, tax history, etc. The case is that in Spain the tax system comes from the pacts of the Moncloa of 1977-1978, the great social pact that accompanied the great political pact, the great social contract, and the reform of Quintana Sources was the one which basically introduced the progressive tax on the income of physical persons and a tax on heritage, so wealth has been taxed, success tax reformed, and Spain, with the entry into the European Union, was when it consolidated a modern tax system with the tax on added value. Obviously, companies were also filmed through corporate taxes. The case is that, fruit of this great pact, in Spain the property is recorded, first, when you have it, by two ways; one is the personal general tax on the total estate of residents, the property tax. Secondly, there is the property tax, which is paid at the municipal level, which also records wealth, in this case the local tax, which is therefore not a personal tax. And it also records its circulation, which can be through the tax of succession, when it's free, or through prayers; or when it's expensive, through the tax of heritage transmissions. And it turns out that the last three are state taxes that are being handed over to autonomous communities. Certainly, as it was said, all taxes have some relation. For example, if we talk about wealth and it doesn't pay -- or if you pay less -- the tax on free circulation, i.e. successions, the example you put here yesterday of two million euros, because if you inherit from your father and mother a million euros, you must remember that this relationship makes you pay the property tax, because unless the heir has debts over 400,000 euros, if you inherit a million euros, obviously it will pay the estate; it will not pay successions but it pays the estate, and it does it recurrently every year, unless the heritage obviously disappears. These things should be taken into account because, in fact, the property tax, which lives with other taxes that record wealth, is a tax that has a component in its origins... the first time this tax has been proposed in Spain, has been made by a conservative minister of restoration, Bugallal. I wanted to replace it with income tax, because it was easier, at that point in the tax administration, to control the assets than to control the income that generated those assets. The second reason why this tribute exists, in addition to the search for equity, which is what inspires the reform of sources Quintana, is none other than the control of income. Obviously, they go together, so they're coordinated, as has been explained, and even at times coordination also implies a double taxation problem, because in income tax, for example, income is charged for the holding or property of second or third immovable property. In any case, it is set with income tax because the estate can hide latent incomes and therefore it is logical that they are involved in each other. But this tax has a lot of problems, like everyone else. First of all, valuation. Ratings are difficult: there are artistic goods, there are art goods, contemporary works of art, there are jewels, there are different values... besides, it's hard to know what people have in many cases, because they are private or personal goods that are held in houses, which fluctuate over time, and we don't know what evolution can be over time of certain goods. This also creates an intergenerational problem, because, in fact, older people often have more wealth, because of the saving of their lives, and yet they often have less income to pay for this tax. There is also a problem in the federal systems, this is the case of Spain, when they differ in the evaluation in each of the territories, in the autonomous communities. It's true that this tax is not the tax of reversing power, how it can be the VAT or how it can be the tax on income. And there's also another problem I wanted to mention, there's a mobility problem; it's changed the stage fundamentally since sources Quintana introduced the estate tax. As everyone knows, in Madrid no money tax is paid, a study of [...] says that 60% of the 4,500 taxpayers who are at the richest 1% and who changed from official residence between 2006 and 2012 made Madrid. Besides, we have an added problem; this is a right government, but we have a added problem. You know that in Portugal the previous socialist government - I kept it after the Social Democratic Government and I maintain the current socialist government - those people who are rich, who go there, mount an industry and invest a million and peak euros, or even, just with whom they rehabilitate a housing worth more than 300,000 euros with the intention of going to live there, can be considered residents and have a tax on all income they earn in Portugal 20% on income tax, 0% on what they earn outside Portugal, obviously do not pay taxes on wealth because it does not exist. This is the left, it's not the right, it's not the Vox, it's the government of the [hire] where all the Portuguese left is. Probably because of all these problems that this tax has - I think this is something that no one has said and that it is appropriate to say in this debate - no country in the European Union has the money tax. France was mentioned, which eliminated him last year, precisely because the crisis was over. And outside the European Union, Switzerland and Norway keep it. Norway has a unique type of 0.85%, and they think that in Galicia those who have a heritage greater than 10.5 million euros pay 2.5%. This is the context, a mobility context, a context that there is no heritage anywhere and a context where we are paying over 10 million euros in Galicia, 2.5 % of the value of all that heritage. Perhaps all these issues have led to the abolition in 2008 of the payment of property tax by a left-wing government, Mr Zapatero's. By the way, that suppression is not in our history of the law that you bring us. It recovers from the crisis in 2011, and in Galicia, indeed - as Mrs. Porrit said - in the law of measures of the year 2013 we negotiated an increase of this tax on a temporary basis precisely because we were at the worst of the crisis, and last year we withdrew it, in the same way as France did with the tax on great fortunes, because the crisis is overcome. When we put this tax rise, the collection of the board's budget. As you know, it was in eight thousand and peak millions of euros, now it's in 10,000 million euros. So we went back to the initial situation, which was the state base - and not as it was said here, reformed by Feijóo - that left the socialist government of Mr. Zapatero. Probably if you had taken these laws into account in your paintings, you'd realize that those paintings are not well done. Why? Because you quote 2011 and compare to 2017. In 2011 there was no tax on wealth, so the figure is low. Why? Because you only got what was under review and control by the Galician Tax Agency of previous years. In 2013 there is an important call, which is that of the state rate that left the Government of Spain for all communities, unless they regulate it, as we did during the crisis. And in 2017 the figure goes up, it's when you execute the deal that Mrs. Porrit talked about; that is, when we raise the tax on wealth to 20%, that then we go down, and oh surprise!, do you know why it goes up in 2017? Because they incorporate all the bases derived from the special tax declaration and the declarations of goods in the foreign, to the ill-called and highly criticized - I was not the one who defended it most - Mr. Montoro's fiscal amnesty. That's why the collection of wealth tax rose in 2017. Obviously, we now recover the pre-crisis rate and we have the same thing they have elsewhere. What Castela-La Mancha has, which is socialist, and which I know does not govern Vox, and which has the state itself, with the socialist government, which has not changed it. The future, it doesn't give me time to say, but I just wanted to point out that I think that we should maintain the tax on wealth, and that we should do as the experts who made the report for the reform of the system of self-financing: to standardize assessments by autonomous communities and concentrate on great fortunes. What's a great fortune? Mr Erregón, with whom you seem to have tried to go to the elections, wanted to set a tax and define fortunes like those that have more than 2.5 million euros. Well, it's a number. [[Murmurs.]] And that's what experts also recommend. Moderate types, removing exemptions, moving autonomy within maximum and minimum limits, and coordinating it better with the IRPF.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u18	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u19	Finally, Mr President, Galicia is one of the few countries in Western Europe with a government of the majority of the People's Party that maintains the tax on wealth, and we do so with the current rate in the state, which the socialists have made. I used to say yesterday that with income tax, we made a progressive reform that dropped to ninety and so many percent of those who received less income and that rose to 1.5 percent of income that earned the most in Galicia; and we also maintained the tax on wealth. These are facts, and they're not words. Today I've heard a lot of words that didn't match the facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u20	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u21	First of all, I would like to thank all the opposition groups for their support for this proposal. We believe that this debate is always appropriate and that it is necessary to individualize it in relation to the budget debate, so that it does not become dilute in the whole budget debate, each group can express its position and, therefore, that the People's Party, in particular, does not avoid the argumentation around a tax that in its reform was notoriously regressive. We made a formulation - I also say by the intervention of the socialist spokesman - a reform proposal, which was prudent because we sought to facilitate in this way that all political groups could support a process, but we have, of course, seen that the lack of political will is complete. We liked to have this debate today because, in addition, we saw that it is possible to recover a discourse from the left, a speech from all the progressive space, from fiscal justice; a speech on available public resources, about the need for the redistribution of income and wealth, and that, therefore, the possibility of formulating alternative policies that pass through the obtaining of resources to really make social policies that reduce inequalities and therefore generate equal opportunities is something that is, of course, feasible and that we are willing and willing to engage in this battle in the face of public opinion. This reform, as we have said before, is clearly regressive. The reform that was formulated last year, with regard to the types themselves, that was something that did not override either the spokesperson of the People's Party, which therefore favours the highest estates within the estates that pay the tax, and which assumes, to some extent, that the Government of the People's Party and the Government of Galician Unity of Niñez Feijóo is the Government of the wealthy, is the Government that facilitates things to the rich, while they do not obtain sufficient resources to satisfy the full range of social needs; therefore, a government that departs from the principles of fiscal justice. The question is not only that, the question is whether we are in a position to allow these reductions to the richest. Are we in a position to give those gifts to the highest fortunes in our country while the social needs are not met? We remember that all day ago, we remember it now at the first hour of this intervention. Data on inequality between women and men require sufficient resources to be collected. There's a pay gap of almost 30%, there's a temporality, there's an unwanted part-time job that affects women mostly. To combat this, resources are needed. Data on employment developments in our country are equally significant. Data from the AROPE, poverty and social exclusion rate, 612,000 people, 1.3% of the population in severe material deprivation. With this data, can we afford this discount to the most important fortunes in our country? We think no, there's not for everyone, it's not enough. Well, since it's not enough, we have to start cutting, what? To cut the tax cuts to the rich, these are the only cuts that we accept in a situation like this; a situation, in addition, where it is recurrent - and I suppose we will talk about this in the next full - the demographic implosion, which also requires courageous measures, and economically endowed, to favor not only the occupation of the territory, but also the exercise of the parenthood or responsible motherhood, accompanied by a system of conciliation that allows to cushion the burdens the exercise of that fatherhood or motherhood which nowadays creates many uncertainties in the population, especially in the newest of our country. Mr Puy spoke of the principles of tax systems. It's something to thank for that first explanation, the question is whether using the People's Party for the measures they obtain with the various tax systems is enough to meet the needs that our country has. We don't think so. This is an important debate, this is a fundamental debate at the bottom of the matter, and whether we can afford this or not we can afford it. We don't think so. When reference is made to the Moncloa pacts, I wonder if the recovery of the tax as we formulate it goes against the Moncloa pacts. We thought not, among other things, because there was until last year this same tax situation. The property tax has been said to be compatible with other taxes that tax wealth. What we're saying is, are we given the reasons for making the downsizing that was done last year? The representative of the People's Party said that the reason for formulating this discount was one and it was very clear, and that the crisis had already happened. Well, if the crisis has happened, why is Law 1/2012 maintained, of certain temporary measures in the field of public employment? Temporary. They were just as time-consuming as tax and kept in their integrity. We propose in the Law of fiscal and administrative measures the derogation of that law, because it was a temporary thing, while the crisis lasted, and the crisis happened, and then take it away! Why is the exceptionalness of at least partially lived in the Law of 2012 on health measures, the guarantees of health care? If they were temporary and the crisis has already happened... why do limitations remain at the replenishment rate? If the crisis has already happened, there are a number of situations that have been used as an excuse to dismantle the welfare state, which have created an increase in inequalities never seen before in the Spanish state, and which are maintained.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u22	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u23	I'm done. On the contrary, measures of these characteristics, which are done in the name of social normality, we saw that they disappeared. Therefore, a Government for the rich, an unjust Government for most of the population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u24	Thank you, Mr. Villares. After the debate on this legislative text has been closed, we shall vote on the adoption of this proposal for a Joint Parliamentary Group bill amending the scale of taxation of the autonomous property tax. Close the doors, please. We vote. Vote on the proposal for a law of the G.P. Mixed, modification of the record scale of the estate's autonomic tax. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. Consequently, the consideration of this bill is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u25	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. We continue with point 2 of the agenda, attendances. Mr. Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice, on his own request, to report on the development in Galicia of the measures provided for in the State Covenant against Gender Violence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u26	I'll say hello first, if not, it'll be too long. We greet the students of the Lourido Center, Poio, students of 5th and 6th primary. We greet them and welcome them to be here today in Parliament, as well as their teachers and companions. And now, in order to formulate the appearance I mentioned earlier, you have the floor of the Vice-President and Counsellor, Public Administrations and Justice, Mr. Alfonso Rueda Valenzuela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. I also greet the boys and girls and the teachers of this center of Lourido and, in addition, I am pleased that they can be here today in this debate, because I am convinced — as I think we are convinced by the vast majority and all of us here — that in education, and more importantly, there is the solution, at least the prevention and mitigation of the tears of gender violence. So welcome. As the President of Parliament said, I am coming on behalf of the Government and on my own request a year after the last appearance. At that time, the funds of the State Covenant against Gender Violence had just been received and the appearance had the purpose of telling here in Parliament what the Government of the Council of Galicia had planned to do with the funds that we had just received at that time, what our planning was, to take a look—after that too—of all that was done before the state pact, but above all, of what we wanted to do with those new resources so necessary and so timely that they arrived at that time. And I come here now to explain what we've done, what we've already done, what we're doing, and also what we want to do in the future. To say that this year 2019 we are unfortunately still mourning murders, the most beastly and most unfortunate face of masquerading violence. We were there this year as well in our autonomous community. In March, Maria José Aboy Guimarey was murdered in Valga; there was no previous complaint. In July, Maria del Carmen Vázquez Cereijo, in Vilalba; there was a previous complaint and even a restraining order. And in September the terrible triple murder of Sandra Boquete Jamardo, Elena Jamardo Figueroa and Alba Boquete Jamardo; there was no previous complaint. Is that evidence? The first, which is the huge problem of masculine violence and its cruelest expression, which are the murders, which are still existing, are unfortunately there, sometimes with previous evidence and sometimes there is no or at least no detection and always show their most terrible face. So first of all, I want to reiterate the support of the Greek Government — and I am sure that of all the Galicians — to these families, to the families of these women, and to transmit to them what we are doing and we will continue to do everything possible, firstly, to try — I hope that someday be true — not to repeat the murders, and of course to give them all the support possible from the administration of the Galician Union. He said murders are the most cruel manifestation of a masculine violence that unfortunately still suffer many women in silence. In the first half of 2019, 3,443 complaints were received for gender-based violence in the Greek courts, and this is a 12% increase over the same period of 2018. And we always say that there's no need to take exclusively the increase in complaints as a bad symptom of increasing male violence. Sometimes what's being achieved is that it blooms and, therefore, you can start helping these victims and chasing the aggressors. 941 protection orders were applied for in that same period in the first six months of the year 2019; they were only 1.6 % less than in the same period of 2018. And also, of course, data from our network of assistance resources is evidence that there is an ongoing demand, a growing demand, and therefore this huge problem follows. I also say — and I think we all agree — that this data is still insufficient to know the magnitude of this problem, for a variety of reasons. Because there are still women who, because of fear, because of economic dependence, because of psychological dependence, because of lack of family support or pressure from the environment, continue without reporting their situation and without approaching the resources that can help them. So all of these circumstances move us as public administrations, and then move us to Galicia's Union, very concrete obligations. First, in the field of our respective competences, we must establish — when I say to establish — that they exist, that they work and that they are maintained with public resources — those measures to support the victims, and then also to make them visible. I think it's very important, I think it's fundamental, that the victims know they have a public support network, that when they make the brave decision to break up with their situation they know they're going to have help from the very first moment. And I also think it's very important to continue to raise awareness of the general population so that all and all, first, we know how to identify when a situation of violence is taking place, when there is a conduct that must be denounced, and also to collaborate for that complaint to occur, and also to support the victims, who will know that they will have support not only from the administrations but from society in general, support and understanding. And, of course, we should continue to work on prevention from earlier ages -- so I said that I celebrated that there was a school in this debate -- and to collaborate not only in education centers but also in families and also in sports, where so many young people meet every day and also look very closely at the models of what they see to be right and what they see to be wrong. I believe that the eradication of masculine violence — if one day we can, and we have to achieve it — goes through education in equality; more equality, less gender-based violence, without any doubt. And I also want to emphasize one aspect of what has already been discussed here in Parliament and, of course, I have tried to highlight in my last appearance: we must work together and coordinate between all the administrations. This isn't about getting revenue from who does more or who does less. Of course, we must all try to do our best and copy the models that are doing well, rectify when things are doing wrong and collaborate to be effective. Everything else, ladies and gentlemen, I think it's making noise, that nothing helps the victims, but quite the contrary. So these bases were considered to make the State Covenant against Gender Violence. To make a very quick story before taking action, they started in 2016, with a government at that time of the People's Party, they continued to develop with the collaboration of all parties in 2017 and both in Congress of Deputies and the Senate. And I want to remember — I think it was an important fact — that I myself came to the Senate in March 2017 when we were called on by the autonomous communities to make our contributions to the state pact that was at that time conforming. And from here we have a position supported and unanimously approved by the House, it has not done so almost no autonomous community, and I think that has got us not to know how to be filled with pride — probably too — but above all, to mark the way in which we should continue to do it. And besides, there has been a lot of walking since the year 2007 when the Welsh law had been approved unanimously as well. I believe that this consensus demonstrates responsibility and is the way — I insist — that we should follow. In September 2017, as you know, the state pact saw the light, it was signed. I had ten thematic axes, it contained three hundred measures, which put their duties on them and marked the way to all administrations. And, well, what we had to do with that state pact was budgetedly, with economic content, with resources so that it could be effective. At that time, EUR 1 billion was set aside for the next five years: 100 million for the local authorities, 500 for the autonomous communities and 400 for the powers the state had to exercise. And a number of working groups were also created. Then came the change of government and motion of censure in 2018, and it was already the new Government that established the definitive criteria for the allocation of funds, which provided it economically and allowed, following the consensus — I insist — that it had come from before and from previous governments, that Galicia had 8 million euros allocated annually. At that time — last year — they were allocated late, in October was when they entered our Fairy, and this is why this year they are implementing the measures from the budgetary point of view corresponding to the year 2018 and from that point of view to 2019, and already in 2020 will be a standard use of public resources. So it's been a year, we've already got the resources, and even though we've been giving timely information, what I'm going to do now, what I'm going to do in this audience is give an information, a global photograph of what we're doing, of how we're using those funds and what we want to do. You know that we didn't set off in Galicia, fortunately, from scratch, we had years of legislation, years of reaching consensus, and in that context it was where we received the State Pact budgets. We had and have the most advanced legislation at the state level, many of the progress being made now, and some that are not yet reflected in the state rules were already in Parliament's Law 11/2007 of Galicia. And so this allowed us, of the one hundred and fifteen measures that are foreseen in the State Covenant to be carried out directly by the autonomous communities, sixty-seven were already fully or very advanced in their implementation in Galicia when the State Covenant entered into force. What did we do? To focus on those that were already implanted and on those that seemed most important to us to sink now that there were more resources and bet on other news. In this way, we mark ourselves as a goal to reinforce twenty-seven of these sixty-seven measures that were already implemented and implement thirty-eight new measures; in total, sixty-five measures that, if they are in addition to those that were implemented, either are implemented by 2019 or are in the process of implementing one hundred and fifteen measures that the State Pact provides for autonomous communities. In addition to Law 11/2007, we had other instruments that marked our way. The main, strategic plans for equality of opportunity, the last 2013-2015, the sixth, which established a very important criterion, which was cross-cutting into all policies that relate to the promotion of equality, into all policies that have to do with gender equality, and therefore also with the fight against violence against the masculine. What's called gender mainstreaming, that is, all policies are soaking up, allowed us to make a plan to implement the State Covenant against Gender Violence that would allow all councils to participate. Now, when you go into detail, you'll see that this is the case. I have to say that at least at the meetings convened by the Government of the State we are having, where we are all autonomous communities, this is not being applied in most, and I think it's good that all the councils have things to do to fight against violence and therefore must also participate with funds from the State Covenant. So that's what we did, and so these are the results that I now report to you often. We started in the educational field. I've said that's what it seems to us, for obvious reasons, to be the most important and where we should incise. They've dedicated 2.7 million euros this year. There are several measures, but the most relevant ones would be, firstly, and since the intention is that the actions should reach as many students as possible, promote the implementation of equality plans in all public centres in Galicia. That's why an instruction was given on September 6, this year by the Directorate-General for Education, Vocational Training and Educational Innovation, which established that the centres supported by public funds must necessarily draw up an equality plan to reaffirm the centre's commitment to the construction of a school that contributes to eradicating discrimination on the grounds of gender. So this was as it was taken, this instruction is already in force in this course 2019-2020 and seeks to boost the actions of the centers in order to promote equality between men and women and against male violence. We are investing for this purpose €500,000, almost 600,000, in children's and primary centers, and more than 300,000 for secondary schools. Of course, we are making a special effort — not only in this — also in the training of teachers to give them the capacity to implement these plans and that this implementation is effective. We also have a second line: investing in bibliographic funds in educational centres that favor readings for students and also for teachers, as well as for families who access these funds and which contribute to four co-educational goals: promoting equal opportunities for women and men; preventing, detecting and intervening in cases of gender violence; promoting respect for affective-sexual diversity; and preventing, detecting and intervening when cases of LGBTphobia occur. It is 225,000 that we are going to invest in primary education centres and EUR 173,400 for secondary education centres — I insist — in this content action to give them content and in this sense to the bibliographic funds of public education centres in Galicia. And finally -- I think it's important -- a novelty. We signed an agreement with the three Greek universities, 100,000 euros for each university, to develop awareness-raising and prevention actions on the seven Greek campuses. I say: 100,000 euros for each university, 300,000 in total, and this will affect more than seventy thousand students; and this will be done in coordination with the equality services that the three universities already count. The second important and novice line of action was what we did about housing. If we're telling women to break up with their situation, women and their children, to start a new life, the logic is that they have a chance to do it in a different housing, if they so wish, to whom they had, and, above all, to mark distances with their batter; therefore, they have to be provided with a housing. This plan was aimed at helping the social housing rent for women who bear the victim's situation; 1.5 million euros. So far, 114 applications have been received, 51 (14 in the province of Coruña, 5 in Lugo, 8 in Ourense and 24 in Pontevedra) and we continue to receive and resolve new requests today. Also in the sports field, which has a lot to do with education, we want to do a special fincapé. We're talking about models, references. Besides, in sport, without any doubt, is where, if you do well, more you can implant the equality values, the values of getting effort-based targets and not starting from any initial differentiation that you don't have to be. And so we wanted to make that special effort there, in addition to the huge number of young people who practice sports every day and especially on weekends in Galicia. We therefore promote a series of sponsorship plans for professional teams, 6 teams in Galicia, 314,000 euros; sponsorship for non-professional teams, 191 teams, 350,000 euros; advertising contracts with 25 sportsmen, men and women who are already selected to go to Tokyo or on selection routes; and sponsorship contracts with the 33 sports federations of Galicia, for more than half a million euros. Other important measures are all that has to do with families and the promotion of the values of equality and of fighting against male violence within families. We therefore enable specific aid to the associations of mothers and parents of pupils, to the ANPA, to develop all kinds of activities that have to do with the promotion of equality, prevention and fight against gender violence, EUR 380,000, 113 ANPA beneficiaries, who will organise — they are already organizing — all kinds of training actions and developing material directed to families, students, on affective-sexual education, identification of cases of violence, fight against cosification of women, hypersexualization of children, proper use of new technologies, prevention of sexting, ultimately, everything that from the scope of the ANPA and within the family, from the point of view of families and educational centres, can be done and is being done. On the other hand, we've also improved something very important and very necessary: the PEFs, the Galician family meeting points. We invested 300,000 euros for two fundamental purposes. First, the training of staff to detect and know how to react and know how to treat and how to derive cases related to macho violence in the PEFs of the seven cities. It must be borne in mind that a very important part of the situations that occur on the ground right there in the PEFs have to see or are derived from a situation of gender-based violence. And, in addition, with this money from next year we plan to collaborate with the Social Policy Council and with whom this agreement is signed for the opening of new family meeting points. And, moreover, Galicia asked to be in the working group that at the last sectoral conference on the State Pact created the Ministry, which asked what communities were willing to participate in this working group and we feel very necessary and we are going to be part of it. We also have a specific section which is very important for measures in rural areas. We all know that it is in rural areas where there is likely to be a special impact, a special work at the time of visibility, in order to get many women victims of macho violence to break up with this situation, make the complaint and even sometimes be aware of their situation in order to start reacting. And so you have to make a special impact there, and when you take that fundamental step, you help them in everything you can. What are we doing? For we are allocating 600,000 euros in an agreement with the Rural Environment Council so that these women victims can be hired by companies, associative entities and persons holding farms in the agricultural and forestry sector. It has to be said that this measure, which is totally novel, has begun not as successfully as we thought, but it has to be made a special impact probably because it is in rural areas, as I said, where the biggest problems are happening. Today there are already 13 women hired, the credit is 600,000 euros and we will continue to invest, because we are sure that the recruitment possibilities are still very large. [[Applause]] We also added a new line of aid to women's associations, especially women's associations in rural areas. We invested €424,000 and have benefited 102 associations today. In addition, we are developing a specific study on male violence in rural areas and in October we have developed a specific campaign in this field. All of this, as I said, in collaboration with the Rural Council. We're also doing measures in close collaboration with the municipalities. The Council of Galicia — and I believe that all the autonomous communities have agreed on this position — considers that the money allocated to the State Pact to local authorities is not sufficient. Divided in addition to the criteria that have been established, it means, in most cases, small municipalities, of one thousand five hundred inhabitants, less than 1,000 euros, 1,200, 1,300 euros at most, to develop all kinds of actions. So, as we believe that nearby is a very valuable tool for situation detection and to be able to react, we are claiming that part of those 400 million that has been allocated by the State could be dedicated to local entities. And, of course, we believe that we preach with the example, when we are making this claim and part of what corresponds to us as an autonomous community, we are not deriving it, but in collaboration with local authorities, because we believe — I say — that they can be very effective administrations and very good allies to fight against macho violence. So what are we doing? First, we are giving direct help, EUR 800,000, in addition to the Galaga Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, so that the municipalities take all kinds of action and take all kinds of measures to fight this scourge. In addition, this year the state pact has allowed awareness campaigns from local authorities — before we could — to be held, and therefore we have provided EUR 800,000 and 131 municipalities are benefiting, upon request, from these aids that we are taking in collaboration with Fegamp. And we're also promoting that it's the municipalities themselves that can hire women victims. It must be said that, contrary to what happened to companies in rural areas, this measure has been very successful, to such an extent that this year we added more than initially planned. We made a second call, it's already 79 women victims hired and invested 1.7 million euros and it's several municipalities that haven't been able to access these aid due to the exhaustion of credit, twice expanded. So this will also be something we take into account next year when planning the 2020 resources. Of course, we're also taking steps with regard to youth and everything that has to do with the cultural sphere. The Aggression Off campaign against male violence at festivals and festivals, with stands and active involvement of people in charge of the Unity of Galicia, to raise awareness of the youth that attends these festivals, I assumed that we had this year's presence in twelve music festivals and that nearly 2,000 people were directly attended. There are twenty-six municipalities that are also participating in this campaign and distributed information material, nearly 100,000 booklets, 100,000 information materials at these sweet festivals. We also signed with the Council of Culture an agreement to, through the public network of libraries in Galicia, carry out reading dynamization activities with a view to gender and against macho violence, and they benefited, they were included, they are doing actions one hundred ten libraries of the public network in Galicia. We are also making a special impact on the formation of public professionals in the field of equal struggle against male violence, especially — but not only — through the Galician School of Public Administration and, above all, with the Education Council, through this agreement we have signed with them, with the training of the teacher, but directly to those workers of the public administration who are not teachers, we are also training them, and this year we are going to make fifty and one formative actions and more than two thousand five hundred places offered in training courses on equality and against violence against macho. It also makes a special impact, as well as in collaboration with the Judiciary Council, in the training of staff at the service of the Administration of Justice. Finally, apart from prevention and assistance activities to start a new life for the victims, it helps directly when they deal with the situation and in the early moments. Logically, the Galician Union has to be there too. What are we doing? We are providing economic and social support to minors orphaned by violence against men — four since 2018 — and to victims who are seriously injured as a result of attacks on violence against women, when they require hospitalization — six in the year 2019 — 100,000 euros of investment for this purpose. We also set up a new measure, in collaboration with the College of Psychology and Social Workers: psychological and social security shifts in the courts, so that, at the time of a direct complaint, either in the police station or in the trial itself, they receive psychological support from the support they receive from the legal point of view of the victims — I mean — from the very first moment. This measure has already been activated fifty-four times since it entered into force at the beginning of this year. And there are more than 100 professionals involved. We also continue to strengthen psychological support outside the courts, not only at the time of the complaint but also later, to care for the victims and their children. We strengthened it this year and in 2019 we increased the amount that has been made in previous years in EUR 100,000, and since 2009 there have been six thousand five hundred women and children cared for by this psychological assistance service; in this year almost eight hundred have already been cared for. We also included psychologists for the psychological guard. They started working in the seven victim care offices, in the seven cities of Wales, professionals of social work to care for those women victims of masculine violence who need any legal proceedings, who come to trial, who from the very first moment have a professional who leads them, helps them, reports of all the resources and all the help they have at their disposal; almost 300,000 euros invested in this action. We also have a €60,000 line to enable women victims of violence and their children to stay free of time; they took place in September and came to ninety people. And also a therapeutic care program for women victims of sexual assault, through the Children's Foundation, with an allocation of 50,000 euros. And I didn't want to forget, of course, periodic help. In an interview last week, I had an opportunity to refer to this. I say again: Galicia is the only autonomous community today that maintains periodic aid for the victims, since 2007, they have always increased, they have had a very significant increase since that year and, of course, we will continue to maintain it as long as it takes. Almost 40 million euros since 2007 invested in periodic aid, nearly 4 000 women attended, in this year 2019, more than 500 and more than 5,300,000 euros that we anticipate when the exercise is closed has devoted to this purpose. And finally, another measure I think that novice, perhaps not so significant on its content, but I think it very necessary, is the help through sign-language interpreters to those deaf people who need any assistance and, in fact, they need it -- as yet they didn't have it -- in doing their proceedings, women victims; I'm talking not only about reporting, but about any procedure they have to do from the complaint before any administration, not just judicial; this is a collaboration with the Galician Orthodox Federation; 45,000 euros on investment. [[Applause]] These are the main measures, ladies and gentlemen. There are many more, you can detail much more, but, for limited time, this is what I think is the most important and what it marks a little bit the line of what we're doing and, above all, what we want to do. I think it's also very important for the budget execution. I used to tell them this is a special year. We are running most of the amount corresponding to the year 2018 and the whole year 2019, a total of 16 million euros. We have deadline to execute it until March 2020, but we are on a level of execution today I think it is very important and it will without a doubt allow us to arrive at this March date of the year that comes with 100 percent of the amounts executed; today they are executed or at the end of their execution nearly 13 million euros. What are we going to do next year? New projects are already underway. To quote them two more, there's more, but I think it's worth noting, because if you're going to sign up in the near future, the Phoenix project with the Juvenile Prosecutor's Office to work on the re-education of minors with judicial measures for acts of macho violence, an agreement of 25,000 euros, a pilot agreement; we're going to start in Lugo and I'm sure it's going to develop in the rest of the Greek cities. And we also have to get another fundamental goal, and then we need the collaboration of all administrations again. We must communicate and share the information that all administrations have about victims of violence, about good practices being developed, about results, about actions that are not so convenient, so that we can reorganize ourselves and make best use of public resources. I think this is very important, and I think there's still a third to go through in sharing all this information, which would be as much as saying to collaborate even more closely. We want to open, in collaboration with the municipalities, new reception centres, and we also want to open new family meeting points during next year, also in collaboration with other administrations, and we want to continue to insist on the training of all professionals (educational, health, judicial, counseling). We did -- I didn't say it before -- agreements with lawyers' and prosecutors' schools to provide specific information to these professionals as well in the field of violence against men. And that is where we want to continue and, of course, re-elaborating, the word is not correcting, but if it is to help and correct any measure that practice shows us, especially new measures, that need any kind of modification, adaptation or whatever is needed. This is about investing as best as possible the budgetary resources that we have. So, finally, ladies and gentlemen, this is the global balance, a global picture — as I said — of what has been done during this first year of the vigil of the state pact. We had a lot of progress, fortunately, from previous years, and I believe that much of this progress came from the consensus that in fundamental moments we achieved among all political groups, which is so much like saying among all society, in fundamental matters, that allowed us to adopt strategic plans, to have a very advanced law of the year 2007, ultimately, to be able to take important steps, which are not being taken — at least that is the perception we have — at the same pace in other autonomous communities, probably because there was no such work ahead. I think this is the way, I think it's what people expect from us and, of course, it's the way that's going to go to Galicia. Nothing else for now and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u28	Thank you very much, Vice President. Round of parliamentary groups. We started with the Joint Group. You have the floor to Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u29	Good morning, Vice President. Indeed, the state pact was a political agreement, it meant progress, but we believe it was insufficient. It is worth noting that in the coming into this covenant it was fundamental -- we believe that this omitted it in its analysis of how this pact was carried out -- the impulse of the feminist movement, of the massive mobilizations that had taken place from women that same year before, as well as a correlation of forces in Congress that was promoting the need for pacts. But it's not enough. We consider it this way because it lacks effective guarantees of execution and concrete budgeting and deadlines for each block of measures. If it is true that there is a global deadline for these five years in that global budget. But we wanted to highlight the importance of this context, women's massive mobilizations. Before we begin to delve into the analysis of the measures applied because of the pact, but also because of the fulfilment of that law — as you yourself said — advanced, with regard to the rest of the state, of the Greek law, we consider it important to emphasize that the said covenant would be impossible to develop in the future if those political forces were not isolated that question the very existence of gender violence and machoism itself. So let us once again appeal to the need to have clarity and continuance against these neo-Machist speeches. Zero tolerance against intolerance, zero retrocessions and zero retrocessions in the field of human rights recognized by the UN. That's where we believe that this defence and development of the Welsh law, adopted unanimously in 2007. The State covenant therefore falls under the internationally recognized minimum of human rights rights, and in the search for effective transposition into the state framework of the Istanbul Convention, which was ratified in 2014, but, prior to the analysis of the implementation of the covenant funds in our country, we believe that the Union must have more ambition, as we have precisely that pioneering law, which advances in the recognition and fight of all forms of violence against women, assuming elements that will then be of consensus in the Istanbul Convention. And we put by chance the explicit recognition of sexual violence as a form of gender-based violence, the consideration of children and children of victims, which goes to our advanced autonomous community as such victims, a proposal for legislative changes. By analysing these specific measures — you announce them by blocks — we will also try to do so by blocks. With regard to education — which are measures 3 to 7 and some more of the state pact — we believe that there is a lack of a comprehensive plan for the development of affective-sexual education in education. It's just that neither the Greek law itself of 2007 is fully complied with on this issue. You've spoken of the need to work more in teaching prevention. Indeed, it is a fundamental issue. In equal education, they buy more funds for both university and non-university education. But we have the anomaly — not anomaly, because there is it in other autonomous communities — for us in 2019 that the Union funds schools in concert, arranged with schools that segregate by sex. A fundamental premise of co-education is that it doesn't start from gender segregation. Furthermore, it is the only autonomous community that does not give us this data of which are the economic accounts that correspond to these concerts that segregate by sex — by the way, against the Education Equality Plan itself which it has drawn up, which deals with co-education and which excludes this gender segregation from the start. There is no prevention — we understand — of gender-based violence in a segregated environment. Also, with regard to the law of Galicia, there is a lack of development of article 22.3 in relation to the preparation of reports on co-education and prevention of male violence in educational centres, which the law requires the School Council of Galicia to do. I mean, in education we have to be more ambitious than what the pact itself has and comply with our own law. And, of course, we consider that we stop funding schools that segregate by sex. As for sexual violence, there's a lot to be done. Of course, the Galician Law already recognizes these as a kind of gender-based violence, but we have to work very hard on its prevention. These campaigns aren't coming up that in recent years it's true they've begun to charge vigil, these harassment prevention campaigns at popular parties. And you yourself have recognized that, in a sense, it comes from the responsibility of doing a global action against the prevention of sexual violence in education in the ANPA. With those aids and those programs, it's not enough, we have to act structurally. There is a non-law proposition by the BNG in this plenary, in which we will talk more carefully about the need to act against these increasing violences, as the reports on crime show. As far as sport is concerned, we believe that both the state pact proposals in sport and those which announced that it is pushing the Union are insufficient. It's just that, as you yourself said, sport is a fundamental tool for preventing gender-based violence, for one thing: it's a fundamental tool where women can be shown roles other than traditional women, where women can be empowered but also where they appear and where situations of violence can be detected. But they buy more anti-acoustic protocols in sports. And, above all, returning to education, it is necessary, essential, to promote mixed sport from teaching, it is essential. From sport, of course, you can develop much more the prevention of gender-based violence. You did not refer to interinstitutional coordination tables against male violence; this could be included within measure 78 of the state pact. This, of course, is a little developed aspect in our country, because since this guide was drawn up in 2015 for the constitution of these tables, the data tells us that in 2017 only 18% of the municipalities in Greece, and that, of these, 35% were in operation. Seeing the annual report on the follow-up to the Greek law, we don't know how many tables exist today or what the operation is. I could transfer how many are in operation. We know that this year constituted the fewer Caldas, King's Hill and Soutomaior, but there is a lack of transparency in this sense, also in a measure of the pact, but above all, a measure that was already implemented in Galicia, but of which we do not know its evolution. And by jumping, for example, to housing block and shelter resources, the evidence is that these resources are not available. You yourself pointed out that there were women who lacked access to that social housing and demanded it. It is a structural lack of housing policy in the Union, but also in foster homes the need for more squares is evident. It's giving the situation in our country of cases that, of course, are of emergency and that we have to act already and always drift away, but when there's a victim in the Compostela district, he sometimes has to go to Vigo because there's no square in the Coruña, because there's a need for more resources. You said next year you were planning to expand that resource network also in collaboration with the municipalities. I'm asking you if there's a forecast in some way. Like the family meeting points, it also measures 210 of the state pact. The reality is they're saturated, concentrated in cities. We always demand a comarcallization plan of them. We know that the Ribeira one will be put in place, but many more are needed, starting with the Salnès, certainly in Barbanza; in the south of Lugo or the Navy there are no, in areas of Ourense they have to make great journeys to Ourense to go to one that is not exactly in the most appropriate place. Many more training measures are needed. He signaled that more family meeting points would be opened next year. I would be able to say whether there is something already in that sense — namely redundancy — more concrete. As far as disability is concerned, progress must be made, not only in timely matters — which, of course, we support — aid for interpretation in sign language, but rather to make the system itself inclusive, because there is still no universal access to resources for disabled women who suffer from gender violence, or there is no guarantee of twenty-four hours of universal accessibility, for example in Sergas. It's something that overall Joina has to move forward. As for health, which are also measures that establish the pact, also the law of Galicia itself established the need to provide this psychological care in primary care. We're not saying it has to be a direct measure to apply. We need to analyze how this specialized benefit is done, but the fact is that we defend that mental health is infreded in our country and that we have to go and introduce psychology into primary care, and there we can also work that necessary assistance to victims from the most basic level. There would be a few more questions left here, but time is up. If you could respond to these specific demands, we would be grateful to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u30	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez Verao. You have the floor by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u31	Good day to all of you again. Mr. Rueda, I wanted to start thanking you for your presence. A year ago, when you yourself mentioned that you were here for the first time to talk specifically about the state pact, we made in your voice the proposal that it was something constant. This was also adopted through an amendment that presented the Nationalist Block of Wales to an initiative — I think I remember — of the Group of the People's Party. In any case, we understand that this commitment is positive and that this is already becoming a permanent appointment that allows us all and everyone to take the necessary momentum, that sometimes in the midst of the political agenda is necessary, to speak calmly about such important issues as this. Look, we came here today in a constructive spirit. We will try to leave on the table proposals, doubts and comments, although I must also confess to you that it is frankly difficult to abstain from that during this year you have also taken the time to deepen in that collaboration — which we insist on rejecting — with denialist parties of macho violence. I'm not going to make this a debate about Vox, because I think it would be an irresponsibility, but it certainly remains in the record. [[Applause]] And look, I can't help but start with a reflection, which is not new on the part of our group and which you know, which is interesting to us not to restrict this issue exclusively to the state pact, because fortunately the policy against the mob violence of the Union neither starts nor ends in that state pact. You know that we were deeply critical of its formulation, because we understand that it was born eevado, without a sufficient budgetary commitment, fruit of a very specific context, and that the proof is that two years later, unfortunately, in many aspects of the state that affect the women of Greece because it is not developed. And secondly, because we left — you also mentioned in your turn — of a much higher framework, of that Greek law of 2007, and both in the previous appearance as you did in this case — I concluded that more than 50% of the proposals of that pact were already included in the Greek legislation. And that reflects for us the two things that are important: firstly, that the Spanish State has been a handicap to move forward on equal to the women of this country, and this I say not because I am sovereign, but because of objective data. You referred to those five fatalities this 2019 in our country -- I want to do it also so that they remain in our memory -- but it's true that those five for the state don't count all of them. It is incredible that in the full 2019 we have to say that for the Spanish State they do not all count, because they continue to violate the Istanbul Convention, and that is something regrettable, and because they continue without developing something that does not cost money, which is to change the denomination of male violence at the state level to adapt to the Istanbul Convention and to adapt to a framework of what the Greek law has already been drinking in 2007. [[Applause]] So, well, I ask you that the People's Party, as it did not do so when it ruled, because now that they are in opposition, continue to insist on that issue and also carry on behalf of Galicia that debate. And the second question that reminds us of all this in the state pact is that there are many aspects that have been contemplated by the Greek law since 2007 and which have not yet been developed. So, yes, it's good that they start to develop some, but that also recalls the undeclared duties of their Government. In any case, I wanted to comment on some questions like this. The first, which is a prerequisite for all this, is that of financing. At the appearance of a year ago you pointed out problems, which you committed to moving to the negotiating committees with the State, with regard to the difficulty of making, for example, spending on real investments. I'd like to know what state those issues are, if there's been any progress, because we really agreed on that. Second. We cannot fail to mention here the situation of the Greek municipalities and that the criteria for the distribution of these funds from the State continue to say that they are not fair, that they do not adapt to the need for criteria such as dispersion and other criteria which are envisaged for the Autonomous Community, but not for the municipalities. So, ask you, too, on behalf of the Galician Union, not to forget that question, because it is not to be accepted that our municipalities receive less percentage than that population supposes in state terms, when we really don't have a lot of weight there either. And that seems to be important to us, because we understand that it would contribute to the more economic capacity of the municipalities themselves and to the depth of the relationship and support that the Galician Union has to have. That is why we ask you, although you have practically frozen the 2020 budgets in this area, to maintain this collaboration, to imagine that they will maintain it, even if you have not mentioned it, with the municipalities in the area of economic transfer, to increase it, because for us it is key to the specialisation of the CIS. We also, of course, in the field of funding, believe that more needs to be demanded by the Central Government, that Galicia is part of a very positive position for our development of the 2007 law, but nobody is spared from the fact that the economic situation in terms of wages, pensions and so on, is worse than the average of the state, and that is why we also need more resources. By focusing on some of the issues you've dealt with, and thus asking you some questions and suggestions, you were talking about the psychological care shift. We understand that it is positive, we appreciate very well the work done by the College of Psychologists and Psychologists in this country, but we remind you that article 25 of our law collects that psychological care must be offered in primary care. So, let's ask you again for an effort in this regard and ask you to explain here what the roadmap is so that, regardless of whether you follow that agreement with psychologists and psychologists in this country, there will also be public places of psychologists and psychologists that will provide the Board of Galicia and allow us to move forward in this aspect, in which we are late. With regard to other issues that came out here, you were talking about the victim's plan of accompaniment and counseling, a proposal that you launched last year, which was an amendment to the Rodela program when they arrived at the Government. That correction seems positive to us. In any case, we'd like to know what the creation of the roadmap of that accompaniment plan is. We're surprised that it's not public, but, in any case, let's develop a little bit of how it's working, and how it's working, too, this interinstitutional protocol that was approved last year already, that we understand that it can have some needles, but we'd like to know what the valuation is a year from that protocol, if you're thinking about doing some supplement, given the statements of the president of Galicia this week, and so on. Regarding the scope of care for the victims, he spoke of the Greek Network of Reception. We agree that more squares are necessary. We have talked about serious problems here, such as the situation of Ourense's foster home, where he also actively collaborated with the local Government of the People's Party on his day; it can't be expected too much of the current, nor can it be seen the spectacle that they set up with VioGen. We'd like it to be concrete how that network will expand, whether they have a numerical horizon, or something like that. Regarding the sex violence programme, this is one aspect of what we're going to talk about in this plenary session through a non-law proposition of this group; it's a matter that concerns us and what we've already asked about. I'd like it to be concrete, because last year they were talking about extending this program with the Children's Foundation to the four provinces, which has been the result in numerical terms, so that we can evaluate what size it has. And, in any case, we continue to insist: sexual violence is a fundamental aspect, so we must continue to insist on the State in which it has to modify that definition of violence. In any case, in our country we're also detecting evasia. In that interinstitutional protocol of what he was talking about, and in what is not enough mention made of sexual violence, in matters such as that we are facing problems, complaints from the judicial system itself, judges themselves and judges about free legal assistance in cases of sexual violence, that there are problems there. And on that we understand that precisely the State is in the eighteenth century in terms of recognizing sexual violence and that in some areas it has not just been considered as masculine violence. We'd like them to focus their efforts there. Then, on the question of housing, we understand that it is a positive programme, although it seems to us that it came with a little delay, in the month of April, the order — if I do not remember correctly — has arrived. In any case, conveying to you constructively some problem that is coming to us. There's a general problem with the rental market in this country. So we are coming to cases of women who have real difficulties — we have examples of Santiago de Compostela — in finding a home for the mistrust of the owners and the owners that they can afford to pay those amounts. So you should value -- maybe you're already doing it -- some method -- I don't know -- if the Union can act as an avalist, that there might be some kind of insurance, some questions, but to ensure that that doesn't happen. And we also have doubts about what the volume of women in a trafficking situation is that they come to this issue, because essentially the victims of trafficking in an important part are immigrants who do not have residence permits, and really, in order, it is required to have that residence permit. So what is the formula they're looking for so that human rights are first and then these residence permits? It's a lot of questions on the table. Next time I'll try to stop at some more, but I'd like to make a final point about training, prevention and awareness-raising. Training of teachers. For almost three years we've reached an agreement on this chamber for you to negotiate with the Greek universities that you have to introduce a specific subject into the master's degree; you have to demand it before you enter the teaching career. I'd like to know at what point this is, that we see he's at a rather dead point. Then, with regard to the training of teachers, it is essential to advance, and also to advance with specific programmes, with presenceal programmes, with the need for training, because you spoke of this, but the fact is that today in the training of teachers, budgets 2020, 250,000 euros.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u32	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u33	To compare, if I may, Mr President, E-Dixgal, EUR 1.5 million. This is an abysmal difference. Not to mention that we have to focus on promoting workshops rather than equality plans, where students and students can contrast and learn about issues like consent. In any case, they're a lot of questions. The next time we will continue to propose proposals in a positive and questionable manner at the table. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u34	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. For the Joint Left Group, you have the floor to Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u35	Thank you, President. Well, I want to start by blessing -- and I know you've been talking about sport here -- footballers for having reached that agreement to have an agreement that ends at last with that discrimination that they live, and that they are certainly an example for all. And we must begin by telling you, Mr. Rueda, that we see this attendance as a positive one. We always think it's good to render accounts and open up spaces for dialogue on measures to fight against macho violence, but we don't share the approach they do on these, for two reasons. First of all, because it has not brought much news in relation to the press release we have recently known, and the truth is that it seems to us that we understand this parliament and the parliamentary debate as a procedure, which first accounts for the media and then comes here to debate. If you really wanted to hear contributions, we believe that the order of factors would be different. And the second, for something already mentioned. Of course we need to talk about the measures that are within the state pact, but in our view it is also essential to make an assessment of the Greek legislation, because, as you have said, our legislation is much more advanced than state legislation and that the pact itself in many matters. That's why we don't understand why he never comes here to report on this assessment, because the truth is that we've been in government for ten years, a decade of repeated non-compliance of the Greek legislation in our opinion, and we believe it would be a good opportunity — you don't have time limits — to talk about these non-compliances here or to make a specific appearance to make this assessment. We're always talking about resources too, and there's not enough resources, as much as the opposite is said. And that there's not enough resources we don't tell him alone, I told him the women who leave the streets on 8 March, who will be back out on 25 November. And we understand that there is a completely reasonable proposal, which is that 1% of the budget should be added to the fight against macho violence. In an extreme, terrible situation of daily violence, we believe it to be a more reasonable proposal. And he also talked about the execution of the funds of the pact itself, and I would ask him to also devote a minute or other attendance to talking about the execution of his own funds of the Galician Union, because in 2018, for example, they left more than half without running the 313D programme, protection and support for women who suffer from gender violence, nearly three million euros without running, and we believe that we must also talk about this execution of the funds and not only that high execution of the funds of the pact, which of course we welcome as positive. And then we also have to tell him that we have difficulties every time we talk to the People's Party about equality, especially in recent times, because we don't know very well what to do. There are enormous contradictions between what they say to defend in most of their speeches and then the measures that go ahead and what they do, and we refer of course to covenants with the far right. They're dealing with who's normalizing male violence, they're contributing to normalization, because they're defending a political force that denies the violence we're suffering from by women. So often they say that we don't have to politicize this question. Well, look, we don't agree. We need to politicize this issue because we have huge political differences. In fundamental matters we have reached agreement, and we will continue to make every effort to reach agreements that improve women's lives, but we also have differences and we believe that it is essential to put them on the table. We have differences and we have memories too, Mr. Rueda, because there is not so much that they are not only engaged with their negationist partners, but that the statements of their leader, Pablo Casado, were also very recent, Tellado's statements were also very recent, that they boycotted the feminist strike of March 8, imposing totally abusive minimum services. And that's the People's Party, as long as it comes here with another speech, that's the same People's Party you're part of. And, speaking of some areas of what you've talked about, about the subject of education, it's honestly a joke that starts with this attendance talking about the importance of teaching, which also devotes quite a lot of time to talking about the importance of teaching to build a society in equality when they're segregating by gender in schools, they're funding schools that divide. Don't you see a small contradiction between telling children and girls who are equal but who can't even go to school? Don't you see a contradiction between saying that teaching is fundamental in equality and allowing there to be plans, trafficphobics and machos, from Hazte Hear?, which you recently voted in the "no" Teaching Commission to remove this machist propaganda. How good is it to tell us that they believe that education is a fundamental space on equality if they then do not devote virtually any budget to teaching, for example, sexual education in our schools? How do you understand equality in educational institutions? Honestly, it seems like a joke to us that they're talking about this. On the issue of housing, he has already spoken in his previous appearance of the importance — and we agree — of the fact that all women have a housing and housing security. The reception network is not enough — we do not agree — and we believe that it should be extended. If you can expand us a little by what concrete proposals they have, apart from this residence in Lugo. So, in this line of favoring a more autonomous life outside the foster homes, they are, there are the housing aid for women who suffer from gender violence, a measure that in our view is essential but that has some parameters that are not appropriate at all to reality, and is leaving many women out, because limit to 225 euros maximum, but above all limit the maximum rent income to 450 euros in the Greek cities, it is not a reality. I'd tell you to enter any rental search page and see what housing can be found in Santiago, in the Coruña or in Vigo for 450 euros that also meet all the requirements of, for example, having an elevator, or look also at the requirements that the owners are setting to rent a housing. And Junta's not doing anything for women to have that support when renting a house. And many women are staying in foster homes because they have no choice but to go to. From the PEF theme, ten seconds, because it won't give me time, but it's a totally insufficient game. They couldn't even change the PEF location of Ourense. And there are a lot more left in many areas. Not even concrete, they say they're going to build new PEFs. Well, let's start by changing those who have an inappropriate location. Regarding support for victims of sexual assault, 50,000 euros is a totally insufficient share. Sexual assault is a very serious problem that affects many women in our country. In this parliament, a motion from our group that intended to make visible that sexual assaults are not what is in the collective imagination of many people; it can sexually assault your partner, it can sexually assault a person who put you in bed, it can sexually assault you with no direct physical violence. And all of this has to be made visible, and all women have to be supported to understand that at best this situation that they have experienced with discomfort was actually an aggression. And there's still unnecessary questions in our country in the courts, in the security forces, women who are going to report situations of sexual assault, and they have to be cut off immediately. With the question of employment, honestly, how are we going to have a minimal expectation that they will do something — the least — to end the inequalities in employment when they remained without doing anything in the face of a blatant gender rift case with the workers of the North Group, those of the cleaning of Galician Union itself? They have done absolutely nothing to shorten this situation until they themselves have achieved it. Equality plans. They're trying to negotiate an equality plan in Galicia's civil service illegally, telling you the representation of the workers. No joint commission, no times, no deadlines, nothing at all. How can we trust companies to comply with equality plans when their own equality plan is a sham? They're doing it running and they're telling them representations and allegations, and instead of listening to all these allegations, you're still going ahead, because what they're interested in telling you is that the autonomous public service has a plan of equality. Precarity, when they have the Consortium workers and Sergas workers chaining contracts and contracts; yes, of the most precarious places in the administration itself. Ask the workers. They systematically prevent the workers' rights of conciliation, they deny us. Then he also talks about the need for the fight against the cossification of women. The media could be a good tool to fight against the cossification of women. And you with the media always have the same thing: independence from the media; of course yes, independence from the media, but also, of course, fulfilling the legislation. It is that there is a law that is being systematically breached in the media, and it is only necessary to see how they reported the triple murder of Valga in many media; and all the news that, in my opinion, should not be allowed, for example, the trial of Diana Want. Then the subject of judicial accompaniment. Of course all progress is necessary, but there are very basic issues that remain unresolved. Specialized courts are missing and, above all, there is a need for women's rights to be guaranteed in all courts. And they know that today there are many women who have to be waiting in a corridor with their aggressor next door, that there are many women who aren't even offered to put on the biombo to declare. This is happening in the courts of Galicia and not in the courts of the people, is what happens also in Santiago de Compostela...—That happens and then I will explain, if you want, in private, Mrs. Paula Prado. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] It turns out that there are no minimum measures to defend women's rights. And finished now, Mr. Rueda. We cannot be in two entirely contradictory matters: whether you're with women and women's rights or if you support the feminist struggle or if you're dealing with Vox. The two things, of course, are not compatible and you have to decide which side they're on. And in recent times they've decided that wherever they want to be is those who systematically deny violence against women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u37	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. Today the truth is that, in addition to sharing the constructive spirit that has already expressed the BNG voicer, I am of course obliged to express a concern that I think is that of many people. Last year my intervention began by mentioning a phrase by Minerva Mirabal, who said, "If they kill me, I will take my arms out of the grave and be stronger." Today, and with the threat continues to feminism on the far right side of this country, this phrase could be transformed into a "if we sew our mouths, we will break our threads and yell harder." [[Applause]] Mr. Rueda, the Socialist Party, as well as all the Welsh people who believe in feminism, we hope that you will break the threads that join forces that undermine, deny and reduce the importance of the role of feminism, the struggle for equality and gender violence. We expect it because, otherwise, your words and actions will always be under an interim filter that at all — and you know — is desirable for a challenge such as the fight against gender violence. In another order, this year 2019, at the sectoral conference held on 3 April, these criteria of division were agreed unanimously and for the current year. In turn, this agreement was formalised at the Council of Ministers on 12 April with the criteria for distribution established. And given these for the 2019 exercise, they corresponded to the Autonomous Community of Galicia some 8.5 million euros, again with criteria that meet the rural condition of Galicia, its dispersion of the population, the incidence of women with temporary work or stops, with disabilities, on the status of foreigners or depending on the number of women over 65 years of age. Depending on the entire collection and the comment made by you, Mr. Rueda, the first mention that since our group we have to make to you about the measures implemented within the State covenant refers to the necessary transparency in the information of the individual and committed to the moment, both as regards 2018 and as regards the commitment and execution of this 2019. And it's just that we have just the information until today, and in a very little concrete way through the execution of budgets, a percentage of execution that guesses the matches that correspond to the funds and that reveal how it was executed in 2018 just 2.29%. It is true that this expenditure — and we know it — has been very conditioned by the receipt of funds at the end of 2018 and we are fully aware. But in five months, until March 2019, we thought that more programs and measures could be committed and implemented than just the 200,000 of the more than 8 million last year. In any case, at this moment — and as you have explained well — they tell us that they have a much higher percentage committed, which leads us to take advantage of their appearance to install towards the follow-up that should take place in the coming years to update all information relating to the funds of the State covenant, indicating the projects and the degree of budget execution of them in the Transparency Portal for their public knowledge. And if visibility is always necessary in any budgetary policy, with the state pact, sensitivity is much greater. A better follow-up will allow for a better redesign of the measures. Today you also announce to us what Mr Feijóo has already said a few days ago, and it is the execution of about one hundred and five measures with autonomous powers collected in this state pact. And he also mentioned that, of the one hundred and fifteen gathered in the pact with autonomous competences, sixty-seven had already been implemented in Galicia before; you say that they existed before the state pact was launched. And he also mentioned Mr Feijóo last Thursday, among other questions, the existence of the CIM network in Galicia. An example that is true, but partly because, as you know, they made a commitment this year to increase and improve the quality of the Galician CIM network and, nevertheless, they were not able to incorporate a single new centre, not one of the 82 that already existed. That means, Mr. Rueda, that only 26% of all the municipalities in Galicia are covered with this service. There are five comarcas that still today do not have any information center for women: they are the Meira region, the Fosgrada region, the Ancares, the Land of Caldelas and the Paradant. And others, too, such as Bergantinos' comarca, for example, that by the large non-territorial area that covers it should also urgently increase its presence, especially in the coastal area. Those are the goals and duties that are yet to be done. We greatly appreciate the achievement, of course, that yes, as well as the momentum to the measures that have favored this state pact, but you will understand that today we too feel — I will understand — the need to point out the issues that are not even addressed, so that that this network of centres is real and of quality and so that all women in Galicia have access to these centres and are not discriminated against by their geographic location, a duty that they have taken this year to strengthen especially rural areas and that, as you can see, it is still about to be done. And just like we're talking about the CIM, we have to talk about the reception centers. You announce, today, new centres, something that is part of our motion today too, and that, as with the CIS since our group, we also introduce as an amendment to budgets to increase funds for this purpose. And we see this announcement, however, as it is not accompanied by budgets, because it only appears a match of EUR 232,000, identical to that of the other years, which leads us to think that this will hardly be feasible in 2020, unless they have planned the use of another generic game for that purpose. In any case, we would be grateful if you could explain it to us. We are also concerned to discover that they also observe the precariousness of the current reception centres. Counsellor, some have serious accessibility problems, including humidity, and others, even like Vigo's CEM, have serious problems in making use in specific areas such as care for children's therapies; an area that has been added to the building with a very precarious structure and which remains unusable during the summer season by the high temperatures it reaches, which make it totally unusable. It is therefore necessary to make an extraordinary budget for the necessary reforms, as well as to renew much of the furniture and equipment of these centres, so that they gain essentially in dignity. And beyond the need for improvement of these equipment, it's very important to take into account one of the issues that the annual reports already point to some of the housekeepers, and it's their own experience and perception of the lack of training and awareness of professionals involved in the attention of victims of gender violence. They themselves have denounced how often women are derived from these centers not because of a real risk of their security as victims of violence but rather by confusing the professionals' homes as a housing resource. I believe that this should make them reflect on the imperative need to continue to focus on the formation, on the one hand, of all the social agents involved in the care of the victims, and on the other hand, of providing stable housing resources for the victims. It is necessary that, beyond the social renting aid which covered a maximum of three years of renting aid, the housing that is incorporated into the public housing park must be fully reserved for the victims. And, of course, I say this and you must be thinking at this moment: but if this is already covered by Decree 253/2007, where it is said that victims of violence are collective priority in the treatment of housing. True, this is the measure that actually corresponds to the 167 envisaged in the state pact, one of which you consider to be done; what you have forgotten is the little detail that, to serve something, you have to incorporate new housing into the public housing park. This is the little letter that both you and Mr. Feijóo obey in their speech. But don't worry, that's what we are for, to read it up to all the Galicians and the Greeks. In another order, we wanted to ask you about some of the measures announced during the year by the Secretary General of Equality. In May he announced the signing of a partnership agreement, which is equipped with more than EUR 780,000 — you mentioned it as well — to promote actions to prevent and combat gender-based violence and to promote real equality between men and women in rural areas. The planned actions include the implementation of campaigns on rural detection and prevention and information, awareness-raising and training through the twenty-four rural development groups. We wonder how this involvement of these groups will be knowing, as you know, that they don't even have gender policies implemented in the centers, not even with qualified personnel for that purpose. We would like to know — if you could comment on it — what that collaboration will be and what it will consist of. And also about the campaigns this year focused on 25-N, which take account of the aggressions taking place in rural areas among young couples, we would also like to know how it was carried out, because we understand that a campaign that is also focused on a specific area as rural is because it addresses specific data. And despite having been approved at the request of a specific statistical study in rural areas, there is no record of its development. We wonder how specific campaigns are designed without previous studies to precede them. And also with reference to another one of the announcements in this case in the press, let us ask you about the aid you gave the Galician Union to various NGOs with half a million euros from the state pact. Not doubting — and I want it to be very clear — at no time the needs of NGOs, we would like to know what specific objectives they are going to target and what concrete measures they are responding to, and it is that by reviewing the measures of the State covenant we find that all those who refer to international support and cooperation, with measures 36, 37 and others of a cross-sectional nature, identify as a driving agent but also as responsible for the implementation of the measure the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and not so much the autonomous communities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u38	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u39	...that are not named in any of the cases. I would appreciate the answer to this question, as well as your opinion on the other questions and reflections we have raised so far. For now, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u41	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, when we started this legislation, at the end of 2016, all groups agreed that, if we worked together for equality and fought against gender violence, we would send a very powerful message to society, to this emergency situation, that there are more women who are victims of gender violence every day and that there are more evidences of sexual violence, psychological violence, physical violence, cyber violence, etc., of unity in that situation. And that made us come to very important agreements, that in other legislations if we had lost that habit. I've always said that this was a subject where we had to always reach consensus. And the most important challenge we had was to draw up a document to send to Congress of Deputies and the Senate when they were drawing up the state pact. And in a context of enormous political fragmentation, the groups of this chamber were able to draw by consensus and unanimously from all a document to send Madrid with Galicia's proposals. He was introduced by the vice president in the Senate and Galicia was the only autonomous community that was able to send a document of these characteristics. And that's why I'm proud to be part of this camera and this legislation. The truth is that in recent times I'm a little restless — I've said the word "disquiet" for not saying anything else — because I observe how groups are changing, trying to separate themselves from those consensuss and to stay away from the People's Party in that sense, making certain excuses that I don't understand. Because the People's Party of Galicia only deals with Galicia and only has a deal with the Greeks and the Greeks in the polls, because we only rule with the People's Party of Galicia and with the votes of the Greeks and the Greeks, who give the vote to the People's Party of Galicia. [[Applause]] I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the adoption of the State covenant by all the groups that were part of the Congress of Deputies, less for one, less for one — and he will know why, and perhaps now I give some information that they also show us, is very revealing of this. I thank you, Vice President, for your presence today by giving us this data and telling us how the state pact is being developed in our autonomous community. After his intervention, I think it is meridianly clear that the fight against gender-based violence goes beyond providing resources for the victims to escape from the horror of violence. The obligation we have is to avoid the victims. Prevention, awareness, education and, above all, coordination are essential. There are many agents involved in the fight against gender violence, there are many of the resources we have, and that's why coordination is crucial. And that's why I'm also sorry, Mrs. Pierres, that the delegate of the Government of Galicia, when he had the opportunity to set up a coordination table on gender-based violence, excluded the Council of Galicia from that coordinating table. And I think it is important for you to tell Mr. Losada, please tell the Council of Galicia, because, in addition, one of the fundamental principles in the state pact is coordination. Congratulations, Mr. Vice-President, because the German Government is working everywhere, it's putting all the means to conquer the goals set in the state pact. While others are immersed in internal struggles, in false independence processes, Galicia is working. And here someone said that the money in the pact was not executed. Of course, they arrived, as the vice president said, in October 2018; in two months it's very difficult. But if you managed to run much of that money, it was thanks to the work you had previously done in Galicia's Union, putting measures and projects already established, to, when the money came, you could execute them. That previous design is what made these measures possible today, these projects are a reality. Mrs Vázquez Verao said that the state pact was insufficient. Of course, you didn't vote for it. I think any step that takes in order to achieve equality between men and women is important, it's one more step that is taken every day. And you voted against and said that, well, it was an impulse for feminist movements. Of course, the whole achievement of equality policies is due to feminist movements, but what I am not going to consent to is that you approach these feminist movements, just as I am not going to allow Mrs. Calvo to be appropriate to the feminist struggle by saying, "I'm sorry, pretty, but that's a progressive thing." No, the fight against violence and the fight for equality between men and women is all political parties. We have all promoted legislation on that subject, all political parties when we rule, we have promoted policies and legislative measures in order to achieve equality between men and women. [[Applause]] Mrs. Vázquez Verao said: No, well, it was thanks to the composition of forces in Congress. Look, that same composition of forces in Congress was the one that made it possible for Mariano Rajoy to be president of the Government, that made it possible for Mariano Rajoy to approve some budgets, which today continue to run, three years later, extension after extension. Why? Because those same forces did not make possible the government budget now in Spain, the result of a motion of censure in which everyone but the People's Party participated. So those forces did what seemed good to them at every moment, but not always, Mrs. Vázquez Verao. Well, let the Socialist Party come and ask for more information centres to the woman, it's always surprising, because, Mrs. Pierres, the only information center to the woman who closed in Galicia was that of Ponte Caldelas; yes, when he came to rule a socialist mayor. [[Murmurs.]] And you come here to ask them to believe themselves more. Look, we are asking the Socialist Party not to shut down information centres to women and ask the Socialist Party to be consistent, and when it governs or supports a government like the Town Hall of Santiago asks the Information Center to provide the Women with means. Because the Town Hall of Santiago last year, when he ruled the Open Compostela, supported by the Socialist Party, he had almost a year without a lawyer and without a psychologist. And you tell me you can do a CIM without a lawyer and a psychologist, nothing more than advertising and advertising activities, which is what the four years of the government of Martiño Noriega have been dedicated to. Or like VioGen. Mrs. Presas, you're very worried about the VioGen program. Do you know that Santiago de Compostela has no VioGen program? Do you know that the Town Hall has no VioGen program? Do you know that the Ferrol Town Hall has no VioGen program? Do you know what you did at the Town Hall of Santiago in May 2019, in the full election campaign, Mr. Martiño Noriega? He sat at a table, the conciergemen signed there a paripé, a postureum of VioGen, which later did not run. You don't criticize him. Well, look, to be credible, what you have to do is ask all the municipalities to stick to the VioGen program and not just the ones you're interested in, because when someone who's been raised the possibility of leaving you they put their hands on their heads. Put your hands to the head by those councils that are not attached to VioGen and those you support with your vows: Town Hall of Santiago, La Coruña, Ferrol, etc. You're talking about the Istanbul agreement. In fact, there are many issues that are still pending, but they don't depend on the Council of Galicia, they depend on the Government of the State. Yes, yes, Spain doesn't recognize the Machist violence. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Since June 2018, which is ruling the Socialist Party, they have had time, on one of these social Fridays, to introduce it through decree and take it to Congress of Deputies. Why didn't they take it, why didn't they take it, when the law of Galicia has already included sexual violence as one of the types of violence. Therefore, Galicia has asked questions. There is no equal education. There's a subject in Galicia. In the health field, there is a lack of training for health. But that's the State, Mrs. Presas, the State, not the Council of Galicia. Support and protection measures are subject to complaints from victims. Ah! But it is that the Galician Union, the Government of Galicia and the Autonomous Community of Galicia have already been legislated and it is already included in the law that there is no need for complaint, that with a simple report of the social worker, aid and resources can already be acquired for the victims. Look, you said here that you wanted me to keep the record that we're with negationist parties. I also want you to stay on record yesterday that I was talking about a political emergency, and I was talking about a political emergency because it seems that the vice president of the Government of Spain is a gentleman who told a journalist that he would whip her until she bleeds. Because it seems like the vice president of the Government of Spain a gentleman who I have never seen a show more of heteropatriarchy than three lords with a "we", because the "a" is equally visible to the women, a lord who, when he came from the paternal descent, returns the man, like Jacob's. Do you remember that eighties announcement, then the colony? [[Applause]] [[Mrs. Prado del Río shows a photograph.]] Come back Jacobs, the man returns. This is the man, this is the vice president. Look, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Quinteiro was very concerned about defending social rights. Well, look, in your party, the workers' committee has reported that the women of We can charge less than the men in Podemos. And if that's the model they're going to move to the Government of Spain, I'm very worried, and the feminists are very concerned because the Government of Spain is formed with this party that doesn't respect the rights of equality either, and the People's Party doesn't say so, Rita Maestre said. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, ladies, yes, gentlemen. [[Applause]] And look, when there's so much, it's no coincidence, it's a pattern of conduct, and that pattern of conduct, the feminists are worried that they move to the Government of Spain, because they move to the model of political doing in Spain, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u42	Shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u43	The Carolina Bassana itself was set aside for being a woman. She said that there was machoism in Podemos. So, if there's a machismo in Podemos, Mrs. Presas, I ask you: will you support that government that's going to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u44	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u45	...to see this gentleman?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u46	Shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u47	Mrs. Pierres, are you going to break the threads of this ultra-left government?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u48	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u49	...of the ultra-left and radical that you have...? Yes, yes, of course, we're talking about government... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u50	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u51	No, well, well...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u52	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u53	...the leader, the vice president is the ideologist of the government of Chávez and Maduro, and here was a Member who put on a T-shirt with Chávez, I swear, I vote for Maduro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u54	Finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u55	And we all know how Venezuela ended...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u56	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u57	...Mr. Lake.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u58	Yes, it's okay, this session is fine. Come on, let's finish the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u59	But there have been people who have introduced the debate that was not due to this debate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u60	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u61	...and, therefore, we will defend ourselves to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u62	Thank you, thank you. Quiet. Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u63	Because in the fight against gender-based violence, not a step back.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. The colony doesn't know if it wouldn't be Brummel, huh? Sounds like Brummel. Sounds like me. It's a joke, a joke. [[Murmurs.]] Replica by the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am grateful for the general tone, with some exception, of the speeches by representatives of the opposition, not by tone, but by some claim that I think I will try to clarify now, indeed. [[Murmurs.]] Well, the first thing I have to say is that this was -- you guys recognized it -- a commitment to appearance and I'm talking about it because they were talking about transparency. All the transparency in the world, among other things, because money is distributed through many agreements with civil society and, therefore, if the Union would not want to report, which is not the case — all the contrary — through those who receive the money, they have to execute it, there is all the information that is needed, if we want this to be as cross-sectional as possible within the Council of Galicia and beyond the Council of Galicia. So, if this is a commitment, I am committed with total conviction, which is less! We have a series of resources for a fundamental task and the logical one, the normal one and what comes out of the Government of Galicia is to explain what we are doing, and, as I said before, also if we have to improve — that we have to improve in a lot of things — to rectify, because we still have time and very important resources, and a fundamental purpose to accomplish. So there's some things you don't agree with; it's logical; there's lots of possibilities. The state pact has a lot of measures, a lot of them, and we've decided to prioritize a number of them. You — some people — do not agree that these priorities are prioritized and do not agree that they are prioritized as we are; you seem insufficient. This is totally logical. What's not logical, and I can't admit, is that they think there are positions that the Government of Greece is holding us back from talking about masculine violence and taking action. This is a big mistake, thinking that some people have more capacity than others and that this is the heritage of a certain political sector and that the rest can't do anything. That's probably what some people want it to be like. But, of course -- don't be mistaken, I think that you know it too -- on the side of the Galician Union and even on the side of the party I belong to, there's no doubt, none. I mean, I just want to mention it once. You said you didn't want to mention it, but they all mentioned that since there are agreements with Vox, we're unauthorized. We don't have a deal with Vox, there's no institutional representative in Galicia that we have to deal with. I hope you're interested in it that way, I hope you're interested in it. [[Applause]] We are interested in reaching covenants within the Council of Galicia, not to agreements, agreements, and also to civil society, in order — as I said — to try to make this implementation of the State covenant as effective as possible and we do not waste time and we do not divert resources unnecessarily. That's why I was talking about transversality. They didn't talk much about it, but I suppose they'll agree that it's a good way to deal with the state pact to say that they're participating throughout Galicia. I say this because — I insist — not all autonomous communities are doing so. For us, probably, the easiest thing would be — and I also link with some accusations that have been made of inadequate budget execution, although I will then try to answer everything that I have been told in my time, even if it is between this and the next intervention — to have caught up, as I insist, in some autonomous community, as the state is doing with 400 million, who is also on some line, and to have done three or four megacampains and take off technical assistance in the private sphere, and there goes the execution of the entire money. We don't want to do that. That would be the simplest. I'm sure you'd introduce me here with a hundred percent execution. But would it be the most effective?, would it be the most appropriate?, would we be doing our duty well, and would we be helping women victims?, would we be helping to end this fence someday? I don't think so. If the Galician Union itself has departments, specialized, sectoral councils, which can execute this money well, let's do so, even though it makes more complicated processing, even though it requires even more transparency efforts, of course yes. And civil society, with great capacity to help us do all this. So we're also in agreement with them. Let's not do the easy thing, to run the money quickly in actions at the very best spectacular, very beautiful from the point of view of execution, but not effective for what we're interested in. So we're going to continue with this cross-section. [[Applause]] For trying to answer them, as I said, quickly to the things they were saying, Mrs. Vázquez Verao said that the pact is insufficient and without guarantees. Well, in the end, it's a pact that we reach all the political forces and, therefore, we think responsibility belongs to all of us. That's why I insist so much that I don't try to collect revenue or try to say that some may and others don't. It will be the best guarantee that these things will be fulfilled, in addition to the transparency that must accompany the execution of the covenant. But this will be, without any doubt, the best guarantee. And maybe they don't need much more. I was also told by Mrs Vázquez Verao that a global education plan is missing. Well, that's where we spend the most money. So this is the first year, this should be customary, and even if one day the resources of the state pact are over, in principle they have a vigil, we hope that they will continue many more years, rule who governs, but, in any case, I think, if we had to prioritize resources, education would be year by year to year, and the area where we should not, in any case, lower our efforts, and probably the resources to which we should devote them. He was also talking about sexual violence here. Well, Galicia, since 2007, has done its homework. In fact, it's a problem that has not been recognized at the state level as well. The Istanbul Convention is being breached, and neither the former Government nor this one is doing so. On the other hand, he thinks he can sometimes say that there are political forces that in no case have any consideration whatsoever to do with this subject. Listen, for we had to set a good example, and at the state level who is ruling right now is the Socialist Party and should and would have the support, without any doubt, if we were to be asked to support this issue, also now as the opposition. We will continue to insist that what has been done at the state level in Galicia for over twelve years, of course! In the sport, he also said he didn't seem like what we were doing. Well, it's just that before there was absolutely nothing done; that's what I meant a little bit. We're going to go slowly, persisting in the measures that we see work and give up, not giving so much importance to others that they may not be so effective, even if they're well thought out. Here's what matters is how it works. I believe that in sport it is one of the most important things to be seen, if we do things right, the effectiveness of good examples, the promotion of equality and to say that we are all equal in achieving goals. We're going to go along and, if we're doing little and it works, we're going to try something else, but at least we're starting. I was asking how many coordination tables are now being put in place. Seventy-one. They're too many, aren't they? Well, given that not too long ago there were so many less, we're going to grow up. But I think there would have to be — I agree — probably a lot more, but this does not depend only on the Galician Union. The houses. You've all talked about the victim's housing rental program. They said they didn't come, some women have problems renting a house for them. Probably not, I'm sure these kinds of problems are being caused, and therefore we have to persevere at a time when it's especially difficult to find housing outside these programs. Here we have to make a special effort and we're doing it. I gave them a number, I think it's an important number, thinking that this is a novice measure, that there is in almost no autonomous community, and there are already many women who have a home and therefore have the possibility of a second life away from the batterer. There are some, indeed, who are rejected, almost all by income issues. Logically we'll have to help those women who especially need this help in order to rent the house. There are requests from women victims with very high incomes to estimate them and be able to estimate all the others. We'll see this first year, at the end, as the final balance remains, and if we also need to expand this measure so that no case that really needs to be left without renting a housing, we'll do it. And even here it was suggested that the Board should do some kind of action against those denials that have no logical reason for women who want to rent, because we'll also try to be there. I insist this is the first year. We've talked about foster homes, too, and about the PEFs. We want to open new foster homes, indeed, next year, and open new family meeting points. Those who are now have, in fact, particularly in some cities, very important malfunctions of operation. Here we are finding ourselves with a major difficulty. Some of you also asked me if they've done anything. It has already been discussed in the previous appearance about the difficulties that were being faced by the State, which in the end is what transfers the funds to implement it, in addressing certain measures. Yes, indeed, those problems continue to persist. We have made some small improvements, but very small, and it will not be because the autonomous communities, which are ultimately the ones that have lowered the funds to the ground and we see the difficulties, have not insisted — all autonomous communities of all political colors — that they have no reason to continue to prevent these funds from being extended by the State covenant; they cannot. Hosting houses are something that cannot be touched by the state pact, they are always funds owned by the Galician Union, that no works can be done in the courts, in the family meeting points, physical works for separation and no coincidence of victim and aggressor. All this can't be done, it doesn't make much sense. On the other hand, there are other measures that were perhaps not so necessary and in which they have absolutely no impediment to allowing the pact funds to be executed for those purposes. We keep insisting. We have just been asked by the Ministry for a written narrative — we have told it at all the sectoral conferences that we have been called upon — that we put on a report of the difficulties and, rightly, why we believe that should change. We just did it again. We'll see if that gives some kind of result, because I insist that you have no logic that we can't act in foster homes, we can't act in the PEF and we can't do a number of things that seem fundamental to us or have to do in a way that we wouldn't exactly like, that we think there are others more effective, but rigidity in that sense — I insist — without many arguments, in our opinion and in that of almost all autonomous communities, should change and hope that you can change and change soon. CIM has been talked about, too. CIMs are a municipal resource. There's CIM everywhere where the county asked us to have a CIM. We will therefore continue to do so, and we are particularly interested in continuing to extend them in rural areas, and in addition to focusing on how many better municipalities, within an area that enables them to be effective. It doesn't make much sense that in small municipalities there has to be a CISG in each one, it's better to group them and that in shadow areas right now — there are not many, fortunately — there can be a CISG. But it's not only up to the Galician Union; of course, it's up to the municipalities to provide a small part. And here I make a call again to the collaboration of the deputies. Nowhere is it said that the existence of centres that are a first resort to many women, to advise them, to help them, to lure them, must be an exclusive competence of the Galician Union, where the rest of the administrations have to look elsewhere. This is something of everyone, just like the foster homes. There was a debate yesterday in the Council of Pontevedra where it was said that, if there was a guest house in Pontevedra, it would depend on the board, that the council had absolutely nothing to do, because this was an exclusive competition from the board of Galicia. Hey! What paper does that come on? What rule does that come on? But do we all agree that it will be the most effective that, in line with the resources we each have, we all contribute to the existence of resources and means that are really effective to help victims prevent and fight violence? This will be a matter for all of us. It is that, if we lead this to a competitive debate, we, like the Galician Union, would also enter the discussion and ultimately do absolutely nothing. So let's not say you have to be arm-crossed and wait to see what other administrations do. If we did that, we wouldn't transfer anything to the municipalities. I totally agree. It was also said here that what is transferred to the municipalities in the state pact is not enough, it had to be more. It's 8 million — 8 million, by the way, Mrs. Pierres, not 8.5 million —, 8 million were what they gave us the first year, this year it's going to drop a little by those criteria that I agree they had to change — they don't dominate the dispersion, they don't dominate the aging of the population, they don't dominate the rural territory -- this year they're going to fall a little, it's true, 18,000 euros, but if they transfer us less, 8 million this year they're going to be the transfer of 2020 over 7 million, they don't get to 8 little, but they're already down a little. So we believe that this is one thing for everyone, and that's why we believe that the municipalities are effective in reacting against macho violence and also in preventing it. That is why we make these important transfers, which are proving themselves useful and that the municipalities are the first interested in collaborating. And we stayed short, as I told you in the first intervention of attendance, the funds that we devoted to the municipalities could directly hire women victims. So this is a way to persevere and, therefore, we would probably have to go on, and we will continue to do so; we have already put it in that role that we have sent to the Ministry to which I had previously referred, that we have to increase the resources that are dedicated to the municipalities, reordinating, even touching us, there would be no problem, because I say that an important part is being devoted directly to the municipalities, which, of course, few autonomous communities are doing — and I think it is a mistake. As far as teaching is concerned, I was also asked how much money was devoted to the teacher's training in the area of equality and prevention of macho violence in the wake of the state pact. Well, 200,000, the actual figure, I think it's 200,000, doesn't get to 300,000, but it's getting close enough. I was also asked if, I understand you, Mrs Pierres, about cooperation, if you are dealing with money so that the NGOs can also take action to fight against violence by means of the agreements with the Union. Yes, yes, it is. About 500,000 euros. He knows that these are two-year projects, between this year and what's coming, what's going to be destined for since Galician Union with funds that aren't the state pact, by the way, but that we think it's fundamental. And one of the great evidences that there is right now in the countries where the Galician cooperation against the huge inequalities is masquerading violence, so present. So if there are good projects, if there are, of the Welsh NGOs to fight against this fence, they will also, of course, receive the support of the Galician Union. They're receiving almost 500,000 euros; if the state wants to do so too, perfect, we'll add more; but this is what we're doing even before and we're going to keep doing it with our own funds, having money from the state pact. Well, I don't know how long I've been going on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u66	You have unlimited time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u67	I have unlimited time. Well, then, because of being exhaustive, I don't know if I got anything else left. Then, if not, in the second part, in the last intervention, I'll try to answer everything. But, well, I think that at this very first moment, and as a summary of what I wanted to tell you, the big questions were more or less answered. I insist that I could come here to present a balance saying it's all executed. He said, by the way, Mr. Pierres, we had a very low execution last year. I've explained it to him. If, suddenly, you get 8 million less than two months from closing the budget exercise, we could go easy, that is to design a great campaign, run it all, and there's 100 percent of the execution; that is, if we're finished, we're going to try and plan it and the year that comes to have a run. The grave would end this year without a hundred percent execution, but that's not gonna happen; we're going to be very close to 90%, and by March, 100 percent. You asked me about the 313D program, 50%. Well, that's actually it. It's just that all of a sudden we had a 100 percent execution, and when the money came from the bottom of the state, that's what put us in 50 percent, but because we had a 100 percent execution from the bottom of our own, we didn't have 50 percent. Other autonomous communities suddenly placed 70% or 80% of non-execution. This year we'll see, this year is about examining and evaluating whether we're actually running the money, first of all in the percentage of execution, which has to be 100 percent, on such an important topic, and especially if we're using it properly. I insist it was the first year. I think things are well-adjusted, but of course there are things to improve, of course there are things that are insufficient and of course that next year I hope that, with proposals from all over the world, we will be able to improve even more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u68	Thank you, Vice President. Round of clarifications. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Sorry, I'm going to say hello first to the students and students in downtown O Piñeiriño, of Vilagarcia. They're 6th grade students who are also accompanied by their teachers. Welcome to Parliament. Now yes, you have the floor to Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u69	Well, you welcome and welcome to Parliament too. Very briefly, I wanted to start, because I didn't do it in the other intervention, too, for that mention to the victims of death, which it is actually necessary to ensure that state law is as ambitious as Galician, and I respect the Istanbul Convention and count all the victims who are because of being women. We were talking about Maria José, Sandra, Alba, María Elena, María del Carmen and we also added Estrella, who was murdered in Madrid but was born in Sober, all this year 2019. Then there were some aspects left to me in connection with, for example, with Justice, which is essential to advance in the appropriateness of these spaces; of course we support those demands of funding. Our group has also registered proposals on how to increase those exclusive judges of masculine violence, just as it needs to be strengthened because there is a need not to revitalize minors or women in those statements by more means to avoid those repeated statements. But I am also left with the question of the media, which we have already discussed in this parliament. As far as the Board is concerned, or collaterally, CRTVG has been shown during this year of treatment that has not been adequate to the standards established by the — say — documents establishing the schools of journalists and the schools of psychology professionals, as to how violence is concerned, gathering testimony in the case of the crime of Valga of random people who had nothing to do with the information; even media of all kinds have come to harass the victims' and the aggressor's family, which was noticed by Galicia's own Official College of Psychology. It is necessary to deepen the need for the media to be clear that these codes of good practice in communication must be complied with. This is fundamental. And of course CRTVG itself, which has an internal code that hasn't even respected in this case. Just as they are not respecting the transmission of information on Diana Quer's trial, which was also mentioned by the Joint Left Group. I also wanted to highlight three aspects. I'm not saying that nothing has been done, that it's insufficient, that it's an issue where you can work much more on co-education and prevention of male violence. We insist on the necessary promotion of mixed sport in schools. Just as in education we said that there is no global plan, because it is not enough to focus this prevention of sexual violence and the harassment of aid to ANPA, we have to have a global plan designed, and of course we have to comply with that agreement that was referred to by the spokesperson of the People's Party, to see how this plan can be implemented in educational centres. In mental health it is necessary to deepen. There is a great deal of work being done in this psychological care to the victims -- we know it -- but we need to deepen the accessibility of the psychological care system from the public sector. This is also a measure that is in the law of 2007 and that must be complied with, to bring mental health and psychological care through primary care, seeing how this specificity of care is preserved. And to finish, we thank this attendance. We are grateful, as you also said, that it was the voice of the BNG, the establishment that this is annual, and we also welcome that consensus and social progress, which in the country means that we are in agreement with that law of 2007. We believe — and I have already said at the outset — that it is essential to maintain this political consensus around the law of 2007, and personally and also on the part of our group to thank the work that the rest of the groups have carried forward in this Equality Commission, which I now incorporate. But we are not questioning that consensus when we say that there is an extreme-right political force that is not comparable to any other of the parliamentary arch. We are appealing to him, precisely to maintain that consensus. Just like no one's taking over the feminist struggle. Feminist struggle is transversal in society, just as transversal is Machism, but precisely because of that it is necessary to recognize the impulse that these issues were also a matter of political consensus. And of course we don't understand how you're accusing us that by mentioning the far right we are leaving the consensus, when we do it in advance to preserve that political consensus. Because we do not equate Vox with the People's Party, we call on them to break those pacts where they are and not to do them in the country, precisely to maintain that political consensus around the law of 2007, around the advance of policies to prevent gender-based violence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u70	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u71	Thank you, President. Mrs. Prado, you've been a little upset at your intervention, you've thrown a little bit of a broom, but don't worry: we're going to keep trying to build positive, and you know perfectly well that we don't have a single problem in reaching agreements with the People's Party when we honestly believe that they're a breakthrough; another thing is that, when there are things we don't get to agree on, you get angry; of course, because you're used to having 41 deputies and doing what they want; but consensual things aren't like that. You mentioned that agreement we reached for the Senate's proposals, but for example, I think one of the most positive things we did in this legislation was to have reached an agreement — that is not the merit of the BNG by pushing it, but collectively — in the expansion of these periodic aids. No, no, no, no. [[Murmurs.]] I mean the expansion of a new income stretch. Only that a single woman had benefited from that I think it's something because to collectively bless us and that it was an immediate change and that perhaps other issues of that 2017 agreement are not so immediate. In any case, going to the specific question, about VioGen, we've also debated a lot; in fact, the thread of that document that was sent to the Senate, we were talking about if it wouldn't be ideal, rather than those automatic questions, to include an interview as well. I made mention of VioGen's show not because of focusing on VioGen yes or VioGen no, but because of the irresponsibility that the mayor of the third city of Galicia is going out, without compromise on the security table, because there's neither a local table nor a deal with other agents, saying, "Hi, come on! And that's what I'm going to criticize when the mayor of Ourense does and when he does any other -- a mayor, for example, who's also a machist, homophobic and Galephobic, because they're not all in Vox. [[Applause]] Anyway, in any case, that gentleman doesn't deserve us to waste any more of our time. And I also tell him that in Ourense what is said is that he called the directly scandalized board to say it was a shame, and, if it was so, I too have no mind to say that, if it was so, the board did well. In any case, I talked about the state, of course, I put a list of duties on the state, because we're going to put that same list of duties on the state, and I don't have any doubt about it. But, man, obviously, if we're talking about the state pact, if we're talking about state funds, because my duty as opposition is to put here doubts and problems in it. Because in some of them we will agree, as in this question that was now being discussed about real investments, because I can urge the Council of Galicia to logically assume the most urgent issues itself, but it has all the meaning of the world that, if the State transfers budgets, we can decide sovereignly on what we are destined to do. Of course, the problems with the state were solved by convincing them that they declare independence, but I think that this is much further than convincing them that some of these demands are made on behalf of the country, and I think they have more strength if indeed the vice-president of the board goes to those meetings to say: this is what the German Parliament unanimously claims, that this is what the majority group claims; that is why we put them on the table. Several issues that came out in the debate. Man, transversality. We no longer mention that because transversality is already assumed in our own law, and of course we agree that it has to go that way. Yes, I wanted to mention the issue of foster homes. I don't think with Ourense's example there's the Popular Party at the municipal level to boast of that, because to see why Ourense doesn't have to take over the Town Hall and Pontevedra itself. In any case, I believe that, with your knowledge of the situation of macho violence in this country, no one can question that there has to be a Greek reception network, in which the fundamental role has to be of the Galician Union. That does not exempt the municipalities from working together, but the director role and the funding role must be from the board of Galicia, from the incapacity of the municipalities and from the knowledge of the board itself. Because how many times does a woman who may be from Ourense have to be housed in a reception facility in another province for her own safety? You know what's going on. So it's a hypocrisy to come here to say that little less than the municipalities have to take sole responsibility for the shelters. Certainly the time is too limited for so many questions that you should put on the table. I would ask you to focus a little on the difficulties that we put on the table constructively on the subject of housing, which you value if there are problems there. I understand that it's logical that a program that just started has difficulties. That's what we're saying in a positive way. I do want to leave some more doubt on the table. First, a very concrete suggestion: EGAP training courses. What a lot of people in Justice are transmitting to us is that these courses, which are essentially virtual, are not working, that we should formulate the possibility of present courses, because in a subject like masquerading violence often deliberation, change of mind, etc., comes out of the discussion process and perhaps a virtual format is not enough to change a patriarchal mentality that is very installed in Justice. So they value that possibility of strengthening those present courses. And finally, there's some doubt. We have talked a lot about the need to broaden knowledge about the reality of male violence. I have approved — I think I should like to remind you that the initiative of the People's Group in the first place — and you have mentioned here that a new macroeconomic survey was being worked on. It's been a long time since we started talking about this situation. We're aware that this isn't articulated from day to day, but we'd like to know if you have a forecast of when you could develop and have some results for us to know them. In short, I have about four hundred and fifty things left to comment on, but I think this is also positive that in Galicia we have reached a level of maturity in the debate on macho violence that allows us to touch many edges and sink as unfortunately in other subjects we are not able. That's a success, it's a success of the feminist movement, but it's a collective success in part of all of us here. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Joint Left Group, Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u73	Thank you. The truth is, Mrs. Prado, it's very sad that I have to come here to do this show, which shows that, frankly, respect, none of us on this subject of what we're talking about. And I understand you have a very complicated role, because you're dealing with machos. So, when you talk about pacts, do you have pacts with whom? And Mr. Rueda says there are no pacts. So I want to ask you what this deal with Vox in Andalusia is. In Andalusia, but they say things they also have here, because they agree to continue strengthening anti-abortist resources when they do the same here, funding Red Mother, when they're leaving and agreeing with Vox that families can choose not to access unregulated training, which means they're agreeing and negotiating with equality. That's what they're dealing with in Andalusia. So they say they don't deal here; it's that there's no representation here. Come here and compromise that, if Vox enters the German Parliament, the People's Party won't deal with Vox, and tell them here clearly. It's that maybe they have us inside, those ideas of Vox many are the same, exactly the same as the People's Party. An example, the issue of abortion. I made it clear. So, for example, the subject of education, which comes here to fill your mouth and talk about teaching on equality when you're funding schools that segregate by sex, are funding them; equality, children and children alike, but you can't go together to school. [[Murmurs.]] And look, Mrs Prado, if we have to take pictures of prominent members of your party in non-parity photos here, I think we fill this Parliament. If we have to make Machist statements, not in private, but in public, from members of your government and members of your party, neither... and they're done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u74	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u75	Who breaks the unit... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u76	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u77	...it's you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u78	Silence! [[Mr. Cal Ogon pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, Mr. Cal. [[Protests.]] Quiet, everybody. [[Murmurs.]] Everybody, be quiet. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] The debate is a very important issue and it goes smoothly. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] It's a quiet debate, it's a very important issue. We're gonna go easy on everyone, eh! [[Murmurs.]] We're in a very important appearance, we're all going to go quietly. Take it easy! [[Murmurs.]] No, I look at everyone. [[Murmurs.]] No, sorry, I look... I'm not gonna be... for now I can only look forward, I can't look at the sides too, I have to look... so, I'm sorry, I look at the entire parliamentary arch. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] It's an important appearance, we're going to maintain the level it was having with everyone, including the subject under discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u79	The People's Party does not show much respect on this subject and, above all, on these interventions. I'd ask them, please, not to lie here again. Our parliamentary group abstained from the State Covenant, but worked as well as all parliamentary groups to make that pact as best possible. That's the way it was and you know it perfectly. [[Applause]] Then, please, I ask you not to lie. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] The People's Party in this Parliament voted against, dozens of times, initiatives to improve equality: it voted against withdrawing male and transfoba propaganda from Hazte Oír; it voted against incorporating equality agents into schools; it voted against a motion to improve the fight against sexual assaults... Hemeroteca, dozens of initiatives in which they voted against this Parliament itself. Then come here to give lessons of vows and unity, none, Mrs. Prado, absolutely none. They only want to make a deal when they're interested in it, when it's the measures of the People's Party. That's how you get into it! My measurements, you sum up, so there's a pact. That's the pact the People's Party understands. But we honestly do not deal with certain issues in which we are not against. And by going to some specific questions, it's funny that they come here to talk about employment when in your administration you're keeping women in the most precarious sectors, such as Sergas in direct care or the Galician Welfare Consortium. They're precarious workers in an extreme way and they're systematically denying conciliation rights. The same with the Equality Plan. I'd ask you to answer: Are you going to draw up an equality plan that doesn't violate legislation? Are you really going to convene a joint commission? Or do you just want to draw up an equality plan, as I said, to pull out a headline? Make sure they see how this equality plan is going to be carried out. Then the media failed to comply with the current legislation. He didn't say a word! It's just that it's a repeated failure, it's obscene that of the media. It's obscene! We have already spoken here in an interpellation — by the way, another motion that voted against the People's Party — to regulate and put an end to sexist attitudes in the media. We asked the motion to comply with the approved legislation, and neither. They've been against the law themselves that they passed. I'll tell you again, do you think $50,000 is enough to fight sexual assault? Is that the great plan of the People's Party with such important violence? So, on the subject of budgets, they don't make a minimum of self-criticism. They say the budgets... who made those budgets? It's just that they're the board budgets. So they were wrong to make the budgets, because the truth is that the explanation given to us by the low execution seems surreal to us. After the question of renting aid, frankly, we don't think the answer a counselor can give is that: yes, there are probably problems... well, yes, there are problems. What are you going to do to avoid these problems? We start from the basis that there are problems. We're sure because I didn't just tell you, there's a lot of women who are saying it -- women who continue in the foster homes because they can't access this requirement. The question we ask him is what are they going to do? Not that they say: yes, there are problems and there must be improvement. Tell them how they're going to improve specifically. Not to improve in abstract, but to say specific questions. Then the theme of the CIS. When they're interested in CIMs, they're the business of the Galician Union and the Galician Union devotes a lot of resources to the CIS. When they're not interested, it's the city hall's only thing. That's always the case. They use the theme of the CIM with a demagogy, the truth, insulting; that's what they do completely... we believe that the CIM must be improved. And, of course, coordination. And since we're talking about coordination, it would be good if they did an evaluation of the coordination protocol. Because the coordination protocol — like many other roles — ultimately remains in roles that do not apply in any way.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u80	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u81	It's a protocol we agree with, but did you have any real application of that protocol? Did they do any evaluation after that protocol? Because, frankly, then there's no progress. And let's repeat again, the only ones who break the pacts are you making a deal with Vox. And, yes, we will continue to say that we have nothing to talk to the people who deal with the Machists, absolutely nothing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u83	Thank you, President. The truth is, after listening to Mrs. Prado and Mr. Rueda, I think it was clear that today it woke up here the spirit of the Ikea People's Party. Since today this is the independent republic of Mr. Feijóo; an attitude that demonstrates that as fellow travelers you are not very confident. And, Mr. Rueda, valuing your intervention and answers, from our group, we see the obligation to emphasize a matter which we find vital. That you contain measures already in place does not mean, as we have already clarified, that they are already being implemented. I was commenting on it earlier in my first intervention with the paradigmatic case of the CIS, or the housing resources for the victims. Of course, the measures already existed and contained, but in one case they still have to reach the whole territory and in the other they have to have housing that allows the victims to stay. The same is true of many of the measures that have been taken to us today, like many others every year, in the annual follow-up report of the Greek Law for the comprehensive prevention and treatment of gender-based violence. Measures and actions that have a very small impact on citizenship: workshops, courses, trainings that reach a few and few and which, in many cases, lack complete ambition. The need to be able to carry out a much more comprehensive follow-up of the measures of this pact throughout the year is therefore evident again, knowing the actual measurements and indicators that allow the correct assessment of each measure. It seems to us a good news — to see that not everything is critical — the implementation of the victim care offices, which respond to the fulfilment of measure 147 of the pact, which will act as a point of access to one-stop for the attention of the victims and their redirection to the specialized services. We hope, in any case, that they can be materialized as soon as possible, providing them with specific personnel. And by the way, we wanted to ask you about those measures within the pact, reserved for the impulse of the autonomous communities, which have not yet been set up or even launched. On the one hand, measure 157, which speaks of the elaboration of protocols on how to act in situations where the victim shares spaces with his or her aggressor at work centres or educational centers. This measure is particularly sensitive, for in many of the complaints processes, in which there is even an order of departure, the implementation of this type of protocol is fundamental, especially because it is always the victim who ends up being displaced from its environment, and not so much the aggressor. Security is the reason, but it is ultimately — and so the victims understand — a clear failure of the protection system. We'd like to know if you've made any progress at this point, in coordination with the rest of the driving agents. And yet know also that they have, in coordination with the Government Delegation for Gender Violence, to carry out measure 168, which corresponds to the preparation of the first investigations into the treatment received throughout the process the survivors. We believe it is important to know such information as this, how relevant it is to improve the currently implemented attention protocols. And other issues that also have to do with the protection of victim data: facilitating victims' rights to digital forgetfulness. This is the measure 144 collected in the pact, and makes mention of the specific and own right to be deleted on the Internet for publishing your data in official bulletins — for example, those of the aid — that can make it easier for those who want it to be located. In this sense, I would also like to take this opportunity today to convey to you, at the most responsible for equality policies, the need to try to avoid announcements such as those made of the recruitment of women victims in various municipalities throughout Galicia. There were several media at the local level who picked up this type of news, even announcing the concrete service in which the worker would be incorporated, which will undoubtedly facilitate — as you will understand — the perfect recognition of the victim's woman in the smaller municipalities. I think it would be appropriate to transmit to all the municipalities of all colors that prevent the disclosure of data that can help recognize women victims, so that in no case is their right to privacy violated. I am running out of time, and since there are nearly 300 measures and we cannot logically speak of them all, I would like to point out again the important thing that for the Socialist Party is to develop specific statistical studies on all types of violence, so that, on the one hand, it can be improved in the recognition and knowledge of a reality that often — as we will see later in the debate on economic violence — remains silent and invisible; on the other hand, it allows to point out the arguments which the extreme right of this country constantly denies, and even goes wrong with false data. We'll see if the remaining legislation on equality policies continues to be more of a matter for Mr. Alberto Feijóo or rather will run from Pablo Abascal's hand. Time will tell. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If I sidetracked a bit from the debate and answered, it was because you guys got into a subject where there was nothing to do with Mr. Vice President's appearance. I know you're upset to be told the truth. Here in Galicia the People's Party of Galicia deals with the Greeks and the Welsh in the polls, unique and exclusively. You seem to be calling for other parties to enter the House, because I'm sorry to tell you that at the moment we will continue to govern, at least what we have until the end of legislation, the People's Party of Galicia, even though you appeal to other issues. [[Applause]] Mrs. Presas, I'm not angry, I'm vehemently in my positions — you know how they are, right? The truth is I'm saying it because I'm sorry. I really feel that consensus on equality is very important. And what I've said, I mean it, I say it from the heart, because I've been working with women who have been victims of gender-based violence for many years, and I know how it works in women's information centres, I know how it works in municipalities, I know how it works in rural areas, so I'm talking about knowing why. And when I say we all need to work on that line, I think it's fundamental. It's true that you put here examples of issues that were driven by the Galician Nationalist Block, but they wouldn't go ahead if they weren't supported by the majority group; so I think we have to give in and be generous in the pact. Now we have an important challenge, from here at the end of the legislation, which is to achieve a Greek pact against gender-based violence. I appeal to the generosity of all the House's groups, and if we were able to make proposals for the State Pact, I think we would not be well enough if we were not able to reach a consensus in a German pact against gender violence. So I hope that this very important work that we have done in the Equality Commission will bear fruit and that the fruits will be in the dictatorship and in the pact. [[Applause]] Mrs. Quinteiro has already announced that she will not compromise anything with the People's Party. Well, there you are! I didn't say you voted against the State Covenant, I said you didn't support the State Covenant, and abstention is a way of not supporting it. And look, Mrs Quinteiro, we, in the debate of the state of autonomy — a few days ago, I say a month or so, but days ago, presented a motion for a resolution which said: "The Galician Parliament has repeatedly condemned all kinds of violence against women, declaring, in addition, the need for the fight against gender violence to have a specific and differentiated treatment in response to social conditions other than the rest of violence, and in particular the existence of a masculine substrate in society against what it takes to fight through public policies with a feminist perspective. In this sense, the Galician Parliament explicitly condemns the negationist stances that aim to divert the harsh reality of the victims of gender violence, as well as attempts to partisanly patrimonialize the progress in the fight against it, wagering it from consensus, urging the Galician Union to continue to advance and fully develop the State Pact." It was only supported by the People's Party, it had four votes against and the rest of the abstentions. There you are! You'll know why you didn't support this initiative. You'll know why you didn't support this. [[Murmurs.]] We proposed condemning... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u86	Mr. Cal, you're not in the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u87	...we proposed condemning the negationist positions, you are the ones who did not vote in favour of this. [[Applause]] I understand, Mrs. Quinteiro, that she's very nervous, because the truth is that it's very difficult today to be from Podemos. After this week's embrace, see how Mr. Grignin has condemned seven years of imprisonment, Mr. Keys to nine years of disability, Mrs. Magdalena Álvarez to nine years of disability, and in those thousands of folios that exist, that there are money from the unemployed who were destined to consume women's sexual exploitation, the truth is that it costs a lot of work to think that you will keep that pact, Mrs. Quintero. I understand that the feminist women, the Feminist women of Podemos and the feminist women of the Socialist Party are deeply concerned today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u88	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u89	And we, the People's Party, are deeply concerned about the fact that this pact was made and that we can renounce the political regeneration they entered into. The more I know the parties in the new politics, the more proud I feel to belong to the People's Party. I feel more proud to belong to the People's Party. [[Murmurs.]] Laugh, Mrs. Chao, laugh, which is to laugh. The sentence we know today is to laugh. Another hug is given to Mr. Sánchez, and then, as Mrs. Pierres said here, I don't know if it will be Pablo Abascal, I don't know... No, it will be Pedro Iglesias. Whatever it is, Mrs. Pierres. Of course, today is not a good day for socialism, and, much less, for feminist women of socialism, who can read in that sentence terrible things from where the money from the formation of the unemployed was destined. There you are! [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Look, Mrs. Quinteiro, about the precariousness of the Consortium. Do you know that the Consortium was the chiringuit created by the Galician Nationalist Block? He was the King of the Chiringuits, and all the people hired in the Consortium -- the People's Party didn't say so, told the IGC, which is the union of the Block -- they were all friends and family members of the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u90	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u91	And do you know what the salaries, wages, those people?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u92	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u93	More than 30% under the staff. And do you know who's going to balance the salaries with the staff? This government, the Government of the People's Party, with the process of functionalization of those people to whom the Galician Nationalist Block and the Socialist Party had led to work insecurity. And most of the people who work at the Consortium are women, Mrs. Quinteiro, women.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Thank you. Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u95	I'm done, just one thing. We will continue to work to conquer real equality. I hope to count on your support, even though you said you wouldn't count today. We will continue to be generous in the covenant and we will continue to make proposals for...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u96	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u97	...all come to an agreement...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u98	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u99	...because against gender-based violence, not a step back. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Thank you. Closure of the appearance, vice president and chairlor, public administration and justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As I said in the previous speech, I will try to answer what was left behind and what was raised now, before making a small summary of closure, very small. They were asking for the victim's attention protocol. I've said that we're taking different measures to assist the victims in all those plots where up to now they weren't being cared for, which were almost all. I believe that since a victim decides to report, to go to a police station, to a judge, and even before, when he goes to a CIS for the first time, when it is clear that he is actually a victim, I think it is essential to start helping her, without any doubt. So that's why we want to strengthen the CIS, that's why we want more CIS, that's why we want to form, and we need a lot more training in state security forces and bodies, I agree, not to revitalize a complaint, when you're going to file a trial... We're forming them, it's true that they're not completely finished, elements are still missing, but that there's a psychology professional, social work professional, in the city victim care offices, that there's people telling them what to do, what they're not forced to do, what resources they have, that women don't go crazy asking where they have to do things, that they don't miss opportunities to have help because they don't know where to ask them or how to ask them... I think that all of this, in the end, we have to go through protocol, so institutional coordination is so important, and that's why it's so important that each administration, every public official, every civil society manager who works in connection with the administrations knows what to do in such an important matter, and that's what we're trying to do. That's why there's this protocol, which about shape is very good, but then content has to be given to it. It's said that if you're forced to attend to a victim, but you have to attend to her, you have to have professionals on the ground doing that job. I think there's still a lot of work to go on, but I think we've moved on. I was also asked about the incidence of awareness and prevention in rural areas. I think this is very important. You know that it's probably where it's still necessary that the victim's consciousness deepen much more, that they react as soon as possible, and for that they specifically ask for all the work being done with GDRs. For it's as simple as that for these groups that are to dynamize society in rural areas, to give information about a number of opportunities and a number of circumstances, one must tell you that one of the most important issues that has to talk to everyone in rural areas is the need to prevent gender-based violence and to know how to react when it's happening. This is what rural development groups are doing and what they haven't done until now, probably because there was no measure. Did he have to be doing it now? Perhaps, but for this, it serves the State Covenant, resources and the opportunity to implement new measures that form, raise awareness and have in their work schedule, as a fundamental thing, all that has to do with prevention and reaction to violence against men. And of course, giving it more capacity, empowering the associations of rural women, who do a fundamental job, complementing where administrations do not reach the rural area, and therefore need more means and support, and of course they will have them from the Council of Galicia. They were also talking about sport, saying, I believe, Mrs Vázquez Verao... No, no, I got it. It's not that you're not doing anything, and you yourself recognized that you're doing things that seem insufficient to you. Probably... probably not, I'm sure you can do a lot more here, but I think you can visualize female sport as something that deserves both worth at least as much as male sport, that you can achieve big goals, that there has to be no differentiations or, at least, that you have to go short of all these differentiations, even in the social recognition between female and male sport, that I think you're going to do. Signing up with sports players, giving help to the Guard's ballonman team -- I say to those who have the most media impact today -- I think it's a way not only for women, but also for many men, to realize that sport is, or should be, at least, pure-state equality. Regarding the execution problems, which have been reenacted. I've already said that, I'm reasonably satisfied, and we're at the Galician Summit, the level of execution that is being achieved and that the State Covenant funds will be reached. I'm going back to saying that those figures that you take in a fixed picture are one way, it's a way to take it quite cheating. If we're transferred as an execution of a whole year's funds in the last two months of the year, it's impossible to finish 100 percent. Of course, if you take the picture at that time, we agree, there's a low execution. Now, they go after and you'll see that the execution -- I insist -- probably choosing the most complicated but effective way, is going to be very satisfactory at the end of the year, especially if we compare it, so they tell us other autonomous communities, with the levels they're at right now. Mrs. Presas also told me that she agrees, because it is so, that we are not allowed to run material investments and hire staff or strengthen public administration staff with these funds and that we always have to go to external contracts, that we have to go to technical assistance with private companies in many cases, that it is much easier to make an advertising campaign than to do tabiques of separation in trials or to improve PEFs. Well, that doesn't make much sense, so we keep insisting, see if we can change it next year. It wouldn't make any sense, it wouldn't respond to any logical criteria, that one more year -- and now two -- if you tell us that it can't be executed for those purposes. The theme of the guesthouses. If you understand me well, I don't say this has to be an exclusive responsibility of the municipalities, and it's not actually being. The Galician Union is collaborating in all host homes, both in entities and in municipalities. But the opposite sense we'll all agree that what's not logical is that a council says that this doesn't have to be dealt with at all. This is a matter of everyone, I've said it before. Each in proportion to his economic capabilities. In Ourense, indeed, the house could be closed and, therefore, it took over the Union of Galicia. This will have to reorder it, and in every foster home that wants to open up in the future we will ask for the collaboration of all administrations to work as best they can, to overcome the evasive and obvious defects that some people have, and to have stability in the future. Of course! this is a matter of all administrations and we're going to keep complaining, each in the sphere of their possibilities. Besides, I want to remember that right now the ones that exist are in cities, that are the local entities that have the most economic capacity, so something can help, and in fact they're helping most. That's why I put yesterday's position in Pontevedra Town Hall, which had not too much logic, the truth. And from the CISG I say the same thing again, we are very interested in consolidating this resource, to achieve the expansion necessary so that there are no shadow zones. I have mentioned in my speech — and none of you have made any mention after all — that this is a magnificent field of action for Members, who have to help the municipalities complement — municipal resource, I remember, the CIS — their capabilities when they cannot reach, especially in the rural area, which is where most of the CIS are. We therefore continue to call for the cooperation of Members. There are some -- I think very well -- very aware of this matter, but not all are campaigns, not everything is award-giving. Helping municipalities to really meet their skills and obligations in the field of macho violence would be a magnificent field of action for deputies. [[Applause]] I'd make Mrs. Presas some suggestions about the EGAP courses, which shouldn't all be telematics, some have to be present. Well, hint collected, Mrs. Presas. I was also asked about the macro-enquisis. It's in the final phase of recruitment. Actually, it's a complex contract. What I can tell you is that it is already the point of adjudication and that, before the end of the first half of the year 2020 — now the field work — we will have the results, which, of course, you will know, without any doubt. They used to tell me before I brought great news about the saying in a press release, I suppose they were referring to the board last week. But it's logical, it's the Junta who executes the State Pact, and the logic is that the Union, before it lets Parliament know, looks at everything you've done, and from there, right away, what we're doing is to come and tell Parliament what we're doing. That's why he said cross-sectionalness, that all the councils are doing it, is fundamental. The Government makes a record of everything that has been done this year and immediately comes to Parliament — which I think must be done — with only four or five days of difference. Mrs. Quinteiro said she has nothing to talk to us. I can tell you the same, so I have nothing to answer. Fortunately we are different, Mrs. Quinteiro, and I still think that this is a matter of everyone and not of any political force. You're still wrong if you think the block can talk about these things and we can't talk about anything at all. Well, the Block, we can or whoever. This is not just a political party, it's everyone's business. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And I'm telling you again, we have nothing on the Galician board to deal with Vox. We have agreed with the people who want to develop the State Pact in Galicia, and those are the political parties with institutional representation in Galicia and the administrations, that's the real pact. [[Applause]] I was wondering about the equality plan. Right now it's in union negotiation, there's a joint commission, we'll see. He told me we were in a hurry to approve. I think it's all the opposite, it had to be approved, in my opinion, and we have to make a special effort to have her as early as possible. So we're now negotiating with the unions. What's the problem then? If there isn't, because there isn't; if we're doing it, because we're going to do it too fast and we don't do it as you think we should. We're going to set up an equality plan in public administration in Galicia, there are nearly 100,000 workers and workers who must have this plan, so we're going to do it. On the media I am not going to stop much more because it is a subject on which there have already been several interpelerations, several questions, in this Parliament and I am not going to change my view on the need to guarantee the independence of the media. I know you have, some of you, some of your political forces, another different point of view, in which we disagree. I believe that ensuring, of course, and establishing the mechanisms of collaboration to be objective information, to apply good practices in the media, that is what we are already doing, but ensuring independence, which I think is absolutely sacred. By the way, Mrs Quinteiro, you again say that there are insufficient figures that we are dealing with to combat and prevent sexual assault. Of course, if you think everything you're doing in education, in awareness, in the bosom of families, in the ANPA, in the educational centers, in the libraries, in the festivals, in the rural environment, in the sport, is not fighting to avoid sexual assault, then we have different points of view. If you think you have to name and amount, and everything else is useless, then we'll never agree what it really is to prevent sexual assault and fight for equality. You realize that it's not just to put on... that's what I meant that it's very easy to execute and do something arrogant to say that the state pact... but I think it's much more useful to be effective and to put money where it really is needed, without needing to put on any kind of medal. I was wondering Mrs. Pierres what we were going to do with the measures that are not yet implemented. Home!, I think 105 of 115 already executed or running is a good baggage. From next year on, we'll see those ten that we're missing to try to reach a hundred percent of our time under the State Pact, five years, of course. You yourself said that some of them are not exclusive to the autonomous communities. These are measures that autonomous communities can and have competence to do, but in coordination with other administrations, especially the State. And here I want to make a call for attention: we need more coordination, and we're having it through the Fegamp. I hope that it will continue in the new mandate, I hope that it will continue, until now we have it. But with the state we need more coordination. I'm telling you why we were talking about our demands for changes in the terms of the implementation of the pact, we still don't know anything. We always said that we were asked about that question that we agree that we should turn to the judiciary demarcation as to the judges of masculine violence. And of course we had to go to a comarcal area, and of course we had to try not to force women to large displacements or that they had to go to judges already overworked. But all this has to be done at territorial conferences of justice that have not met for more than a year. By the way, I would like the Minister of Justice to have called us this past year, because I would see that Galicia and other autonomous communities, probably now that there are money from the State Pact, we would make that claim. These are the measures that we should take, like the other ten that we will no longer be able to do — that is why they are not done, Mrs Pierres — because they are not ours alone, they depend especially on coordination with the State, and we need that coordination. You were saying something I agree with. In relation to women — 71 I think it's the figure to date — hired through the funds of the Union, hired by the municipalities, women victims I'm saying, unemployed women. I've also seen some news in which, in my opinion, he's probably giving more information than he needs, and he's never given by the Galician board. This year they were hired through the municipalities, but we've been making agreements with entities and business associations to hire women victims and you'll see that this has not been done in any case. So I also make -- and we did -- a call, and we put it so clearly, so that there is maximum discretion. One thing is to say that the municipalities are working together, and I think it's good that you know, to help women victims by facilitating that contract -- I told them that we're short on the assignment, and that's good, and next year we'll try to cover it even more -- and another thing is that details are given. It was the first year and you can find a certain lack of knowledge of the necessity of complete discretion, and I'm sure next year will never be given again. I think I've been more or less responding to everything I've been asked for. Maybe there was something left behind, I apologize. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a lot of work done since 2007, and a lot of work by consensus, as I said at the beginning. This is what now allows us to reach this level of amplitude, to this level of transversality, in an autonomous administration accustomed to working and doing so sensibly and effectively on all the issues that have to do with equality and the fight against macho violence. This is what has enabled us to move forward, to get through this work done, to be innovative and to put in place measures subsidized by the State Pact — moreover, they are calling us to ask for information from other autonomous communities. There is also a lot of work to be done, by consolidating measures that are new this year, by rectifying — I insist, no problem — what can be done best and by listening to whatever is constructive, you have to listen to it here. No one, and much less no political force, and much less this one, has the absolute truth and the ability to know — with contempt of what others think — what is right and what is wrong to fight for equality against violence. So, with correctness and mistakes we're going to continue working, and what I ask them for the good of Greek society, for the sake of so many women who today are victims and still have no help, is that we try to do it together and together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u102	Thank you, Vice President, for this interesting appearance. We move on to the third point of the agenda, motions. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made by the Central Government in relation to the labour situation in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u103	An amendment has been made to the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u104	To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u105	Good day to all and all. In the past we questioned the economic, industrial and employment adviser about the employment situation in Galicia, and we did so because of the concern about that situation. A situation in which employment incomes have only been reduced; within wages the highest and the lowest have been reduced; not since 2009, but since employment in Galicia has been destroyed; and the number of unemployed and unemployed is twice as high as unemployment. We wanted to know what were the measures of the People's Party in the United Nations to empower...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u106	A lot of noise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u107	...our productive sectors, to curb the indentation of emigration, but the only thing we've achieved was escapism and denial of reality. Today we bring here a motion focused on the working situation of women, and we do it because, as we said in the interpellation, it is along with the young people and girls who are most virulent in the labour situation. We do it because we're at the door of November 25, World Day against gender violence and precariousness, and work inequality, of course, is violence against women. We women leave massively in the streets on March 8, 2018, March 8, 2019 and November 25, in a genuine cry against the situation of inequality, demanding measures, but we see that time and this cry and this theoretical commitment to meeting the demands that women make do not really become, they don't pass from statements, they don't go from role to reality. We have to recognize that there is progress in legislative matters, but we want to move from equal rights to equal rights in life and realities, because right now we have equal rights, but we have very unequal realities and lives. There's no doubt in the work situation, we're not, at least, the same. By analyzing the data, of course, all alarms are skipped: inequality is perpetuated and even accentuated, the pay gap is only increasing. In Galicia, according to INE data, a woman charges EUR 5,478 less than one man a year, and we earn EUR 1,174 less than the average of women in the state. Next data. In the ten years of the People's Party's Government, since 2009, this salary gap has only increased: 1,000 euros less we won women than in 2009, an increase of 22.29%. So, what's the drama? The drama is that the drama, moreover, is that we do not converge, but divide, because in the middle of the state this increase was EUR 274, of 5.18%. We can talk about more data. Women concentrate on less-income jobs: 37% of women do not reach the minimum inter-professional wage and 20.5 over 100,000 do not reach half; that is, 400 euros. On these levels, we're true to most of them. In these low income levels and precarious wages we are authentic most, unlike what happens in the highest wages. In wages representing 10% of the minimum inter-professional wage, it turns out that we only reach 17% there, we see how it is inversely proportional. So, what's still the drama? That if the pay divide is at work age, when we get to retirement age, this divide is multifolded. Why? Because we have a working life like Guadiana. We've given up working life for care, we've given up working life for many reasons, and when we get to retirement age, that gap becomes 36%, to 5,000 euros less pension, on average, with respect to men. We can talk about part-time work, rotation, where data is all with negative indicators for women. We can talk about the occupancy rate. And I have to say again here loud and clear that the People's Party lies, that the president of the board lied yesterday to the councilman of Fairy when he says that in Galicia there are more women working today than ten years ago, than in 2009. It's a lie. There's data from the INE, official data -- I'm telling you... -- 2,500 women less working, 2,500 less busy. [[Applause]] Another thing is membership of social security or the issue of unemployment, but in the labour market, working women, 2,500 less than ten years ago. So, less women occupied, more pay breaks in Galicia and more pay breaks in relation to the state. We can also talk about what we charge for hours; we charge less with respect to the European Union and we charge less with respect to the state as well. That is why we bring this initiative here today, where we propose measures. We propose to impose measures because, if fiscal measures are imposed on companies and if they are very strong in the pursuit, in the verification of whether they are complied with and penalties, why is there no such force when the legal measures adopted in the field of equality are enforced? We want that same bluntness. The first thing we want is data. We want to put black on white, to have data about what the situation of work is really about women in Galicia, so that they stop playing scapism or twisting numbers, to have consensual and approved data where it is well defined what the working situation of women in our country is. We therefore want to increase the economic stakes in 2020 to fight the wage divide. In 2019, in the budgets of the Union there were EUR 1 million in the fight against the wage divide. In these 2020 budgets, when the situation has not been overcome, when the situation — as we have just seen in the data — has not been solved, or much less, only EUR 250,000 or 200,000 are included. It seems to us that it is not to be received and that this game must be increased in a sufficient, unwitting way, with sufficient amounts. In March 2019 the BNG brought an initiative here, in this parliament, to incorporate equality clauses into public procurement clauses. We bring it in because, as I said before, we want the administration, instead of being complicit in discrimination and inequality, to be an example in its fight. We would bring the initiative for equality issues to be something real in the Union contracts and not just that element for unemployment, which in many cases is not even the first element of disembarkation, but it is still the second or third. We brought him in to make a real commitment. Eight months later, of course, we don't know what the level of application and implementation of these unanimously approved media is, and we want to know. We therefore propose that a report be submitted in the first quarter of 2020. We ask the Spanish Government to increase labour inspection, increase inspections and sanctions, because in many cases the wage divide is not in the base wage, but is in the supplements, it is in those pluses that apply. Paying less women than men for the same job is illegal, we agree, but is it doing so? No, it's not happening. It's illegal, but it's still a reality that women earn less than men. Why? Because it's often made in a masked way. The categories for which women are hired are often different. A woman treats them as an assistant and a man as an officer or first officer. The pluses are for danger or for walking with machinery. In the case of cleaning, for example, these pluses for walking with toxic products are not applied to women, there are totally discretionary criteria. That's why we believe that the operation of the inspection must be powerful, and for that there must be more inspections, and there must also be sanctions, because the sanctions derived from the Labour Inspection in the field of inequality are minimal and minimal, and that means that it's not inspected and it's not upstairs, and we believe it's fundamental. Then we want the work rights and the protection of women in care. The work of care is essential for our society, but it's invisible work, which is not recognized and not valued. We women are the ones who hypermajority perform the work of care, so much free, in homes; through the submerged economy; at the wage level, in the administration or, essentially, through the private companies that provide that service. Women mostly in jobs related to work at home, cleaning, health, social services, dependency care... and we could follow.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u108	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u109	We have seen — ended, president — low wages, we are working in a vulnerable situation, unprotected both in working life and in the time of access to pensions, then poor accounts. We believe that we must end the precariousness of thousands of women working in the care sector and reverse the situation of money for a few and misery for most women. I hope that the groups will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Joint Left Group, Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u111	Thank you, President. For, indeed, this problem is a serious problem, a serious problem, which, as the rapporteur moved, is increasing in recent years. We passed a wage gap in 2014 from 26% to a current wage gap, currently in Galicia, of 30% — the maximum value we had in our autonomous community since these issues were calculated and dealt with. It's a high percentage, indeed, of women's average income that would have to be raised to equal these men's incomes — EUR 5,480 — and it has a complex source. First of all, because of the precariousness of work, which essentially confronts women, who obviously face the whole working class but which has a clearly woman's face, and especially in part-time and unwanted work in that sense. We have the EPA data, and, according to the working day, last year, last 2018, 77% in Galicia of part-time jobs were occupied by women. Obviously, it continued to increase that difference. As for the unemployed, it is 22.4% of the employed who have part-time employment compared to 6.1% of the employed — men, in this case — who are employed. There's obviously also a devaluation of work in feminized activities. It's not only that women with professional categories who have lower wages are hired on many occasions, but that the agreements of all sectors that are feminized are calculated or always negotiated with very lower amounts. And sectors like cleaning, and there are many other examples of many professional categories and all those spaces occupied by women, are worse considered. We also have a wage structure that penalizes women in relation to professional promotion, that glass ceiling. And there are many elements to address from a social point of view. It seems to us that what is proposed by the BNG. In this case it was these but also other initiatives that were approved in the area of wage divide — I say no earlier, but in this legislation — that continue to fail. And, of course, we'll wait, if approved, for those reports to be published. We have a difficulty: women continue to carry out, to a greater extent, care tasks, and EPA's own data shows that they favor the causes of inactivity. Among the causes of inactivity is much more attention to the number of women who give up the possibility of finding a job for the care of minors and dependent people. And here also comes the importance of everything that is not complying with the Dependency Law. They're in 87% women who abandon the possibility of active job search to engage in care tasks, compared to a much lower percentage of men who are engaged in this situation. But it's just that, in addition, in temporary contracts too, they're mostly women. If we add the percentage of 27.3% of temporary contracts plus the percentage of 24.8% of a part-day in the case of women, it gives us 52.1% of a precarious one. We have an absolutely unacceptable job situation for women in our country. We agree with the request for all those reports — if we have supported it in other initiatives also in committee — and, of course, with regard to the workers of home and care, because it is not acceptable for the State to continue without ratifying that Convention 189 of the International Labour Organization, essentially in that provision 201, with regard to ensuring the legal protection of women's rights. And I say "women" because they are basically women who devote themselves to the work of work in the home and care. In addition, we believe that we should wait for that report to be published, but there are also other elements — and that is why we are presenting the amendment, even though we are going to support the initiative even if it is not accepted — in relation to the central government. It seems quite obvious that, since women have the worst salary, the rise in the minimum interprofessional wage is an important element in improving women's purchasing capacity and also reducing that pay gap. And so it's pretty clear that that climb that was achieved was positive and that we have to keep working. We — and, of course, it's public because we've come from some generals — are betting on a much larger rise, but it's true that there's an agreement signed between employers and trade unions up to 1,000 euros and we have to work and demand that this element be met. Labour reforms must be repealed, but all legislation that facilitates bias in employment must be repealed. Because, of course, if we say that temporality and partiality affect women more, we must also have an impact on that aspect. And I'm done, I don't have time. As a third point, we believe — and we have also taken a law in the past legislation to debate in the Congress of Deputies — that there must be equal and untransferable maternity and paternity permits because, of course, if women leave their jobs or the active search for employment to devote themselves to care, it seems clear that there is also a need to work in that field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u112	Thank you. By the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Casal
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u113	Good afternoon. I'm not going to extend much because we are totally in agreement, both with the proposal made on this motion and with the points added by the Joint Left Group. I'm not going in here to talk about the statistics either, because every day is worth less. There are statistics taken from official sources, including those from the Galician Council itself, the Galego Institute of Statistics, and then there are statistics from the press rounds of the People's Party, these statistics that live in that parallel world where the Government and the group that support it permanently installs. In these statistics thousands of jobs are always created in all sectors. The companies, let's say, that the People's Party wants to favor more and more they always generate thousands of jobs. Someday they'll tell us where those thousands of jobs come from in all those companies you're talking about. We should ask the real workers. Ask the teleoperators, ask the possible nurses, the maricadoras, the so many sectors of the real economy of the real labor sector, to see if they're in line with everything you're continually praying for. And in view of this, what? Inaction and indolence of the Government. It seems, from the proposals we see, both in this plenary session and in all committees, that from now on the Government of Galicia and the group that supports it ceases to govern, they already end the legislation and the only thing they are dedicated to is seeking guilty aliens and also, as it happens in relation to the training and promotion of employment, not to carry out the shares of their own budgets. I'm sure in the answer they'll always come out with, with which for us there are first jobs and second jobs. Well, no, for us all jobs, all workers and workers, have the same rights and have the same right to their jobs being defended. What's in it for you are first-class companies and second-class companies. Much to defend certain companies with gross environmental impacts, with a balance of totally unfavourable negative externalities and in which we would have to work precisely to find alternatives. And instead of looking for alternatives, all you do is you want to create conflicts. So you're not thinking about the workers and the workers, you're thinking about how to create a political conflict that can damage the government of the state, or throw them against the opposition because we think there are unsustainable companies for which solutions and alternatives would have to be sought. What are you doing? Nothing! They talk a lot about supporting Bridge workers, Bridge carriers. What specific budget items are in the budgets to really look for solutions for these workers? Not one, not one concrete! That's right. They're asking for money for Endesa. According to our estimates, what you've been asking for for for two or three months now to theoretically solve the bridge problem is to give Endesa 150 million a year. Most to be stopped. What's that solution? What kind of work will this bring to auxiliary companies, to transporters? Well, that's our approach. I mean, we're totally in agreement with this non-law proposal. And we don't have much more to add, just come to reality. They can't go on like this this this year, which is going to be a year of conflict, a year of trouble, the year of Brexit, the year of international tensions for commercial struggles. Government, run budget splits, because they won't approve any of our amendments or those of any opposition group. And stop looking outside. The worst thing that can do for someone who has responsibility is looking for guilt elsewhere instead of dealing with reality and finding solutions. You have 10 billion euros to look for those solutions. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u114	Thank you, Mr. Casal. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u115	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. Well, on a previous basis, I would like to express the Socialist Parliamentary Group's vote in favour of this motion at all its points, because unemployment figures in Galicia this October include 164,307 unemployed, of which 95,320 are women. I don't know why the president was so euphoric the other day with the female employment data. Of the total unemployment currently in Galicia, almost 60% is female — from the inactive population. It highlights as the cause of this inactivity — as the Compañera Solla once said — the care of minors, of sick adults, with disabilities, etc. Yesterday, an article in the very significant press said that 90% of Galician surpluses were women. In the fourth quarter of the previous year, of 2018, the women's activity rate was lower than that of men at 8.5 percentage points. And we continue to add negative factors: to these quotas, to these high unemployment rates, we add the bias of women's recruitment. In Galicia, 116,500 women work part-time. 77% of part-time jobs are women. And we continue to add negative factors: we put together the part-time status of what we were talking about, and the temporary contracts -- the figure there is already more powerful: 42,100 women, 9.7% of employees. And we keep adding up. In addition to taking part-time and more time-consuming contracts than men, the wage gap is the most obvious and notorious result of the inequality and discrimination experienced by women in the labour market. The ESC's statements in memory made this year are quite clear, and it says: "In view of gender disaggregation, part-time occupation remains an eminently feminine phenomenon — in fact, 67.4% of the persons employed part-time in Galicia in the last year are women— whereas in the case of full-time employment their relative weight is 43.20%. As a matter of fact, this eminently feminine phenomenon was also appreciated by the fact that in 2018 only 5.9 % of men have part-time employment, when in women this percentage rises to 21.9%." It points out to the ESC that conciliation measures are necessary to reduce non-voluntary partial newspapers and that they are mainly occupied by women. And in terms of wages, the wage gap is powerful, it's above 25%. The average annual wage for women — as mentioned yesterday in the budget debate — is more than EUR 4,000 per year. And I wanted to present a news of these days that says, "Galice would take 615 years to eliminate the wage gap if wage equality follows the current pace." He doesn't talk about five or ten years. We'll take 615 years in Galicia if recovery follows this pace, gentlemen of the People's Party. There's something they have to do. According to data from the group of Fatenda technicians, in their report Wage Break and Crystal Roof, we charge an average — as we said — of 27.5% less than our colleagues. That is why we have to assume the measure that Pedro Sánchez's government has put in place to raise the minimum wage to EUR 900. Because, yes, the biggest beneficiaries of this measure are women; and, above all, logically it will benefit this rise which will continue to be produced in the minimum wage as the following legislation passes. Thank you very much. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta. For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Romero Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u117	Thank you, Mr. President. Good day to all and all. Starting with a chascarrillo, Mrs. Solla, add points to point 6, which is to urge the Government of the State. I don't know if you don't trust your own, which is logical. You don't trust Mr. Sánchez, it's not going to be a motion of censure because of the ERE sentence of Andalusia and you don't get to that coalition of social-communist government. [[Applause]] Mrs Prado Cores, there are many reports that analyse the labour market and the causes of gender inequalities in the same, including concrete recommendations for overcoming them. Following these recommendations, the Greek Government is working with concrete measures to improve the quality of women's employment and to address the causes of these labour inequalities. So today we have the best female employment data in our history: we have fewer unemployed women —95,320— than in October 2008 —99,173—; we are — according to data from the last EPA— in the second best figure of October of the last fifteen years; we have more women than ever affiliated to Social Security, almost half a million, nearly half of memberships; more than 7 out of 10 employees have an indefinite contract; nearly 10 out of 10 employees have a full-time day. Therefore, the German labour market has better results for women than in Spain as a whole in all indicators: lower unemployment rates, higher activity rates, employment rates, and lower bias rates. According to the gender equality index of the autonomous communities, published this year — I pray you take a look at chapter XVIII of the study — Galicia is the community with less inequality between men and women in the labour market. This index analyses the structure of employment, the average wage, the volume of self-employed workers, as well as pension-contributory pensions. And, with this methodology, or report literally says that "Galice is better positioned against the rest of the autonomous communities." You can see it on this table, gentlemen, or in the comparative painting. Galicia, above all. Below all, the communities that refer to the progressive left, where there is more inequality. Is this the result of progressive policies? No, no, no, no! That's how we don't improve women. [[Applause]] But if we have a better situation in Galicia, it doesn't mean that there are no inequalities in our labour market, inequalities that obviously come from the lack of co-responsibility in taking on household and family duties. And, as you well said, 77% of people in part-time Galicia are women; men who work full-time exceed women by 15 points. And this of course has its direct impact on the wage gap. But another determining factor in inequality is the concentration of female employment in the service sector, with more than 84%. Meanwhile, almost 77% of industrial employment is male. And on this issue, ladies and gentlemen, God is begging and giving a boost, because you are the only women's job advocates and are silent about the hundreds of companies in the sea-industry chain located in the public domain of the maritime-terrestrial sector at risk of disappearing by the action of the progressive left; industries that concentrate most of the female industrial employment, so necessary to shorten the wage gap. And you, in this matter, chiton, chiton! Just like they didn't say a word from the ERE of Andalusia, the sentence. [[Murmurs.]] If it were PP, there would be no other question, this would be secondary. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Casal, for you there are jobs of the first and second category, and those of the women who are in these companies for you are jobs of the second category. You can't be, Your Honor, behind two banners at once: in the defense of industrial employment and in the defense of women in the morning and in favor of the closure of industries that mostly employ women in the evening. And by the way, if we're talking about entrepreneurship and leadership, we're also the first community in Galicia. And, with regard to the wages of women in Galicia, we are the eighth autonomous community with a lower wage deviation between men and women, which has been almost half-point reduced over the previous year. We are the second autonomous community with greater increase in women's wages between 2008 and 2016. It was more than 13%, and in the national set it was 9%. And the salary increase of 3% of the Greek woman in the last year also exceeds the national average, which was 2.4%. Ladies and gentlemen, are we satisfied? No, we want more. That's why we have to keep working to continue to reduce gender inequalities in all areas. And the best way to do this is from the consensus, because it's a very serious matter, Your Honor, and so we've seen it from both this parliamentary group and the government. That is why we will vote in favour of this motion. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. For the motion's own group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u119	I want to start by thanking all the groups for their support for this BNG initiative, because it shows the concern about a situation that, rather than improving, only gets worse. I said in my exhibition that we wanted to start with data and reports to stop using the data and to justify the maintenance of the situation and not do anything. And after the speech of the honourable Member, it is more obvious that we need to have that data so that we can see what data we refer to in order to assume what is the reality. Because the crisis seemed to improve women's data, but everything was a pure mirrorism. It wasn't that women's data had improved, that men's data had worsened, that in statistics the percentages were above. But it doesn't mean any improvement. But with that theoretical recovery in which we are, you're already seeing that the working situation of men tends to improve and that of women to keep themselves equal or worse. That is what we should be concerned about and concerned about, because, after the concern expressed by all, we should be concerned about making decisions. Because the occupation of women in Galicia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is smaller in 2019 than in 2009. I told you before: 2,500 women occupied less than in 2009. It's smaller than men and it's smaller than in the middle of the state, that's the data. That the pay gap is higher in 1,000 euros than in 2009, and that's bigger than in the state, it's also the data. It's bigger than ten years ago and it's bigger than the average state. That hourly pay is lower in Galicia than in the European Union and that is less than in the state, it is also data. That is why I very much appreciate the support for this initiative, and that means that the People's Party will vote in favour, at least, of the amendment BNG tabled to increase the budgets of the Union to fight the wage divide. Because — I repeat — this year was EUR 200,000, and the BNG tabled an amendment to increase them by 7 or 8 million — it seems to me. Those are numbers to fight the pay gap. So I suppose if you vote in favour of this initiative, you will also vote in favour of changing budgets. Because what the People's Party sees is clearly insufficient. We will be monitoring that this report we request to be submitted in the first quarter of 2020 will be made. Because it's not worth saying that we all agree and that we want consensus if it's only good for self-comprehension. It has to be verified in specific matters, and we want the data from that report. Of course, we're going to demand that this be done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u120	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u121	And also...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u122	Will you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u123	And with regard to the amendment, we're going to accept the amendment, which is to add. Of course, we accept the vote by points of the initiative as presented; and then, separately, the amendment, if they do not want to vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u124	Thank you. We suspended the session until 4.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u125	We continue the session. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Luisa Pierres López, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to the protection of the economic capacity of the minor persons and victims of gender violence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u126	G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia at the initiative of Da María Luisa Pierres. No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u127	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again to all and to all. We are grateful today for the assistance of the women who accompany us, from Fademur and from the feminist movements to the representatives of the CIS — in this case, today, workers who accompany us from Ribeira. I cannot begin my intervention today either without making a first mention of the debate which has been given in these days about the empowerment of women. It is necessary — I think — to clarify that empowering a woman does not happen to teach her how to sew a button. empowering her is to give her the opportunity to choose, the opportunity to be able to study, to train herself professionally, to decide what her life will be and not have to meet a single stereotype of lady who cooks and sews buttons—option, eye!, which is valid whenever it is an option, never an imposition—. These kinds of demonstrations, which also underestimate feminism and its contribution to achieving real equality between women and men, are the ones that really have to warn us; to warn that everything built up to this point in the matter of equality is caught weakly with threads. That's why it's essential that all and all of us take needle and thread and give much firmer stitches, it's essential that we don't let anyone come to dissipate what has been sewn up so far. It is essential that not a single pact, not a single coalition, abide in this Parliament with those political forces that seek to desist or question such important issues as the mere existence of gender-based violence; a violence that we bring to this debate today in one of its most frequent manifestations but, however, more silent and invisible, as is economic violence. This violence is defined, as we said the other day, as the intentional and not legally justified deprivation of resources for the physical or psychological well-being of women and their daughters and children, as well as discrimination in the availability of shared resources in the field of couple coexistence. And when we say "silent" we say it not only by the social convolence that covers it, but also by the invisibility that the administration itself gives it year by year. It's very good to breast-feed for including this kind of violence in the Greek law, something that we also applaud. But it is also necessary to act accordingly and to be involved in the specific study of its incidence and, of course, in the design of specific measures. Last year, in fact, a specific annual report on sexual violence was introduced as a novelty, which I put forward in her study and knowledge. But about economic violence there is still insufficient statistics to allow this specific study of its incidence, of its coexistence with other types of violence; ultimately, with data that allow a much wider assessment. This is a question which, by the way, is also covered by Article 11 of the Istanbul Convention, in which different administrations are encouraged to work precisely in that data collection and in research around all kinds of violence, also economics. And it is that, when we talk about economic violence, we are in danger, as we saw in last week's debate, of believing that this is a matter that is reduced to a problem of insolvency and economic incapacity for victims. That, of course, is one of the main consequences of the situation of domination and deprivation of liberty of a battered man over which his partner was, and, no doubt, must be cared for... [[Murmurs.]] Yes, I would appreciate some silence, the truth. Without a doubt, it must be attended by the Administration so that all those cases of women economically dependent on their former partners and abusers find in the periodic aid a way to stay away from that cycle of violence and to be able to restore their lives and their sons and daughters as well. But to continue to strengthen and continue to highlight the work of repairing and minimizing the damage of women and the minor victims of violence, from our group we believe it is important not so much to fall into the conformism and applause of the already done — of course, aid also promoted by the two-party Government — but rather to focus on the achievement of new answers to the problems of the victims. We must address that other side of economic violence, which continues to be exercised in time, even after a separation or a sentence of ill-treatment. Let us consider, please, in the case of those women who, with a restraining order on the part of their batterer, are still linked to them by sharing property, by sharing food pensions or common obligations, such as the payment of a mortgage. Psychologically it's already difficult to maintain that relationship and those minimal contacts with whom you've engaged in physical or psychological violence, but it has to be absolutely unbearable, and I contradicted the right to repair the damage of the victims, that violence persists quietly and continuously through economic blackmail. Not to comply with the payments stipulated by a judge, not to face the payment of a common mortgage, are ways of perpetuating control, of never forcing a woman to break the bond that binds her to her batterer. There are many, in addition, the abusers who find in this practice the way to continue humiliating, a kind of demonstration of power, that he remains necessary and that he cannot be excluded from it. There's even a much more syslin mode that doesn't even rub the criminal illegal: these little delays in paying the pension or the payments of the shared obligations, which lead the victim himself to have to contact his assailant to ask him, even to beg him. And if the Administration cannot fully solve — we know — the consequences of this kind of situation, it can diminish and support the property and economic protection of women — especially women who are victims of violence — by encouraging within their regulatory powers the changes in the tax figures that are deemed necessary. It is possible, in fact, to consider changes in the IRPF so that a victim does not have to assume the debt of the batterer in the case of joint taxation, assuming that the part of the debt corresponding to the autonomous quota, for example, is exempt. Even so, it is possible to activate deductions by rental or by acquisition of housing. These are measures that would not be extraordinary, but have already been taken with other social groups; measures that seek not to diminish economic or heritage capacity due to prolonged economic and psychological violence over time. We think of all the circumstances of this violence, we think that providing periodic assistance is necessary, of course, it is essential, but it does not solve the underlying problem. We have to work on these situations that are detected by abuse and persistence of a domain that subjects women to those who have gone and want to remain their abusers. The example is on that woman who was commenting on the other day, to whom, years after she had a sentence of ill-treatment and subsequent divorce, as in her day she had a statement in conjunction with her batterer, a notice of default embargo from the IRPF comes to her. As a subsidiary of his former partner, he has to respond to those unprescribed debts and no one comes to appreciate the reality of this woman, or that the only person responsible and acquaintance of that debt was his abuser. In cases like this, this Parliament would have the power to seek solutions. Because we're not talking about exempting all women victims from their responsibilities, but only in those cases that are shown to be unfair or abusive, liberals from that backpack, that burden that leaves them who have been deprived even of their economic independence during their lifetime. There are particularly cruel cases. I believe that these days I have listened to the testimony of many victims and it is not exceptional the cases of women whose aggressors have deprived during the coexistence of their own wages and have used economic violence with them to control their dependence and total submission; women who, for the debts acquired from their abusers, later enter themselves into lists of morbidities that prevent them and their children from hiring basic services, as could be the telephone service. I insist that it is to remove all possible obstacles, all possible, so that victims of macho violence can recover their lives in all fields and do so through the modifications, mainly, of the tax figures on which the Council of Galicia is competent. And in order to overcome also the invisibility at first mentioned, it is also necessary to work in other areas, with awareness-raising campaigns and information between the citizenry for the best recognition of this violence, with the improvement in the dissemination of resources and counselling with which women — including economic violence — are told in women's information centres, as well as the enhancement of training courses specifically for staff to better advise on fiscal implications after divorce. And finally, there is also a need to improve the existing housing resources by launching the new foster homes in the territory that will reduce distances and improve access to them from all women and minors in their position at risk in Galicia. We sincerely hope that all groups will understand the importance of today's measures and of the special importance — in addition to improving the economic and heritage protection of the victims, their children and daughters — so that no victim has to carry a backpack that does not correspond to them — the burden and debt of who was their batterer. As political leaders we are, we really contribute to emptying that backpack and allowing the damage that will enable the victims to continue with their life plan. [[Applause]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u129	First, I also greet the women who accompany us today in the Chamber. Indeed, this initiative is essential because economic violence is one of the least known manifestations of masculine but persistent violence. It is a consciously exercised violence, consistent in depriving of basic resources for their well-being victims, women and children, both at the time of matrimonial cohabitation and after separation, which in many cases begins precisely with separation. It's an invisible and difficult violence, of course, to quantify, so the Administration must dump itself in designing mechanisms to make it visible. Because if you are, in fact, recognized as such in the Greek law but you lack to develop it in order to be able to fight effectively against it. It should be pointed at an initial point: that the structural fund of economic violence is also the inequality of income and heritage between women and men, that situation that stems from the distribution of traditional gender roles and that resulted from the reproduction in the sphere of work of these roles, assuming the worst jobs paid by women — as was said in the previous debate — or being these jobs of lesser consideration precisely because they are women's jobs, having women more reduced days or bias, temporaryity or giving up working life by care for children or older people, and being penalized in the career of work by maternity. This is the bottom line of women's vulnerability, a set of situations that stem from that wage gap that makes us have a wage difference in our country of 5,480 euros a year between men and women. But, of course, in situations of male violence, specifically, it is a fundamental factor of vulnerability to the economic dependence of the aggressor. This can prevent, as it has been pointed out here, from delaying the exit of a situation of ill-treatment — so if the victim's benefits are essential, that our country has been activated since 2007 — but we must also see this second part, in which it focused the question of the full past, that, when the complaint is made, economic violence is a mechanism for continuing the situation of violence against victims, women and minors. It's a mechanism by which the aggressor continues to contact the victim and exercises domination. It is also this blackmail in relation to the resources that the aggressor should provide for minors, even with those sophisticated mechanisms — let us say — of low-intensity violence, to wait up to the deadlines for abolishing the accounts — for example, payments of the compensatory pension. But even if one can give — as has been explained — the situation that economic violence occurs after a situation of rupture when a couple puts an end to a relationship in which there has been no ill-treatment. And consequently, the situation of macho violence is at the end of the couple's relationship. Of course it's necessary to act. And yet knowing that gender violence is a cross-sectional situation at the socio-economic level, if it is especially necessary to protect women with lower economic resources who may be incur in that process and with greater vulnerability to get out of a situation of violence, but it seems particularly interesting to us to focus precisely on the economic abuser, in which it is a matter of domination. It is also, of course, to address the brutal economic violence perpetrated against victims of trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation, as we will also have the opportunity to speak in this plenary. We support the motion, which proposes to apply exemptions, deductions and bonuses precisely to those who need them. It's technically possible to do so in a case like that of the example that you had to assume a victim completely by default the mortgage by default of your assailant. Besides, of course, the extension of information centres to women. But in addition to these information centres for women in Community social services, it is necessary to strengthen resources in the field of social work and social education in order to jointly program from the municipalities programmes — the value of redundancy — awareness; specific campaigns to enable women to identify these situations of economic violence, because it is often an obstacle to knowing that they are in a situation of economic violence. Of course, ensuring housing resources—the proposal in another initiative pointed out that confusion sometimes of what is an emergency resource with which it is a housing resource—is necessary to increase housing resources to ensure the autonomy of victims of gender-based violence when needed. We also consider it patent, explicit and necessary to reject political pacts and any convolence with which it denies the very existence of masculine violence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u130	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u131	Thank you, President. Good afternoon and welcome also the people who accompany us today on the bench following this debate. We, from the BNG, agree with the proposal presented by the Socialist Party today in this motion. In advance, say we're going to support her, too. We believe that this clear rejection is necessary that you include at that first point in the resolution part of the motion; that firm rejection of any pact with forces that deny not only the existence of macho violence, but even the existence of human rights and fundamental rights of half the population, which we represent women. [[Applause]] Discrimination, inequality, any form of violence perpetrated against women by the mere fact that we are women is a violation of human rights, because feminism — and this has perfectly defined it in a very simple way, Angela Davis — is that radical idea that women are people. While people have to see guaranteed rights inherent in our human condition. And that, in today's day, it's not even being fulfilled in our country completely. But closing the door to totalitarian forces, to Machist political forces, has to go beyond voting today in favour of that first point of the motion presented in this case by the Socialist Party or approving motions for resolutions in this chamber. Close the door to totalitarian forces and macho forces means that they don't take any step, because they don't buy the speech, because they don't take up the frame in which they want to install a society that has advanced very much thanks to the struggle of many women, who have allowed us so many others that we are here today to enjoy greater and better rights than they have. And, above all, closing the doors to totalitarian and macho forces also goes through determined, vigorous, courageous policies, and, above all, with a view to gender and feminists. With regard to the economic violence in which the bulk of the proposal we are discussing today, it is defined in the Greek law of 2007 — Mrs. Pierres said in her speech — as a more form of macho violence, such as intentional and not legally justified deprivation of resources for the physical or psychological well-being of women. But the eye: our law of the year 2007 restricted the exercise of this economic violence to the sphere of cohabitation and couple; that which is produced in the sphere of cohabitation of the couple. We were talking before we left to eat the payroll, the fact that women cover less than their fellow men for the same job. They earn less just because they're women. This definition of economic violence therefore excludes, for example, the wage gap. I leave it there so we can also expand the frame and also evolve, move forward and update our own law. In that sense — whether Mrs Pierres was saying so in her speech — economic violence, especially that — as the definition says — is circumscribed or fits into those relationships of couples, had ended or not coexistence, has examples such as not to pass the pension or delay it regularly with the aim of instrumentalizing, on the other hand, children as an element through which to exercise violence against women themselves. He's talking about not dealing with, for example, joint debts or those that he has some kind of responsibility for his wife. It often begins — as Mrs Pierres said — after the separation and divorce proceedings and, in some cases, after previous convictions — as she also pointed out — in cases of male violence. In fact, pension compensation has been collected since 2015 in state legislation as a form of male violence despite not all cases, especially those who do not have a prior complaint of gender-based violence, are tried in court — worth redundancy — specific to male violence. The president himself of the General Police Violence Observatory has asked on more than one occasion to clarify the legislation itself to end this situation. We agree with the initiatives that are taking place today in this motion and we will support it. And we insist on this: that economic violence is more a form of macho violence consistent in limiting women's capacity for autonomy and economic independence. But it's inside the couple and it's also practiced outside that family or affective-sexual domain. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Joint Left Group, Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u133	Thank you, President. I also want to greet the women who accompany us today, who do a vital job. We also advance that we will vote in favour of this motion, of course. Some of the points bring us back to the debate we had this very morning at the presence of the counsellor. The first point, in particular, for us, is fundamental because we are in a key moment, in an emergency moment. And we believe that we will never insist enough until this question is clarified from the People's Party, which, in our view, is clarified by the explanations that have been given so far. Because, in fact, when it deals with these forces that are launching hate speeches and succeeding in placing speeches on the media agenda that go directly against half the population and which, fortunately, have been away for many years, because it is helping to normalize tremendously macho attitudes. Economic violence, unfortunately, as mentioned here, is a more unknown, more silent violence. In fact, all the violence that escapes from violence and physical assaults are much more hidden than the rest of macho violence, but not least harmful. Today, there is no knowledge of the amount of violence in this sense, nor is there any measure necessary to resolve this situation. We agreed with all the points of the motion, although we did want to make some point at some point. For example, with regard to point four, where we agree, but we believe that CISMs need more resources, because in order to carry out all the tasks they already have and other more necessary, we believe that the resources they have must be strengthened. It's something I know that we coincided with the Socialist Party's voicer; we have talked about this issue on many occasions and we also spoke in the morning. It's true that everyone has to jump for the CIS to work; the municipalities, of course, the deputies, of course, and also the Council of Galicia. But, well, it is true that the Galician Union is not listening to many of the demands that the workers of the CIS themselves are making, for example, talking about issues that don't even have to do with the economic issue, which is important, but also about coordination. Coordination would also help to ensure that many of their tasks are carried out ahead, or to simplify bureaucratic procedures or all of these matters. As far as specific study is concerned, of course what is not known is very difficult to solve and, as I said, it is a violence that is completely silent. I often believe that when we talk about economic violence, we focus on violence against women who see their most basic rights deprived, such as their most basic economic resources. But there are all these other kinds of violence, which is a dependency, a constant emotional blackmail, such as the theme of food pensions — as the Socialist Party's spokesman said here too — said. It's often something that recurs after separation. And yet they have to deal with women alone. Because many times—what I was saying, what has already been said is not a matter that is perhaps within the legal deadlines—you have to wait the last day for the woman to be demanding, demanding, demanding. Regarding all this, with all these ties that women must necessarily maintain with their batterer, we believe that the administration must resolve all these issues in order to prevent women from having to face situations like these. And then you have to start from which is the base and the structural problem. And the problem is, of course, the tremendously macho society, where there are many men who believe in the ability to exercise power and violence over women, by merely being men and by being women. But what's also at the base is that women have the worst jobs and that we're also doing all that free work. Because women, in their relationship as a couple, often take care of all child care work free of charge, with all the difficulties that they later have at the time of separation becoming part of the labour market again. We believe that the administration there also has to do: to look for housing resources — that we were talking about the issues that need to be improved in the morning — but also to look for those quality and stable jobs, because many later women only have access to precarious, temporary jobs and the worst jobs. Something that we also share — and that often when we talk about equality we forget — is to focus on men, because this is everyone's issue; we've talked about it many times, and sometimes we forget it when we do awareness campaigns, when we do studies. Well, I think this motion really alerts us and puts us on a path that we think is what we have to follow, and of course we're going to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs García Miguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u135	Good afternoon. They're constantly bringing the coalition political groups that don't have representation in this chamber, and we're going to ask the Greeks and the Greeks to continue to support us in moving forward in this country in terms of equality and in all the other issues, as they did. They know that the Greeks and the Greeks have always given us their support for the past 12 years, and so we will ask them to do so at their own time. [[Applause]] If we talk about pacts — which are worth any topic today to talk about pacts — I think it was the leader of Podemos, Mr. Pablo Iglesias, who said he would whip a woman until he bled. And I ask the Socialist Party of Galicia: will the Socialist Party of Galicia refuse that the Socialist Party deals with Podemos? Will the Socialist Party of Galicia reject that the Socialist Party deals with radical and incendiary independent political parties that are violating the rights of many people, men and women, by thinking differently? Is the Socialist Party of Galicia going to refuse that the Socialist Party deals with proletarian political parties that did not condemn the violence and murder of so many innocent people? [[Applause]] Because if you've forgotten, ladies and gentlemen, we, from the People's Party, don't forget. This should not seem to Mrs. Rodil a violation of human rights, the conviction of the murders, but rather to take pictures of them, exalting these killer terrorists -- who are killer terrorists -- and you don't talk about the violation of human rights. [[Applause]] We're tired, ladies and gentlemen, of your speech. [[Applause]] Chances we are, gentlemen! [[Protests.]] You're making a feminist policy of packaging.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u136	Quiet, quiet. Mrs. Rodil, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u137	And I'm saying good, pagotic feminist politics, because they get to point number one over and over... and instead of talking about gender-based violence, they come here to talk about what they're interested in. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u138	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u139	But when they really have to support and reject this negationism against macho violence, they don't. We brought to the debate of the state of Autonomy — which they know — the representatives of Fademur and the CIMs, to those who I want to give them in good time for their work and tell them that they well know that the Galician Union is in the hands of the rural community, it is in the hands of women and men so they can get out of this circle of violence. Of course, since the debate in the state of autonomy, the People's Party has put forward a proposal explicitly condemning the negationist positions that aim to distort the harsh reality of the victims of gender-based violence. What did you guys do? Don't support her. But in addition to that, we also ask them for consensus to work on the state pact and arrive at a German pact, and they didn't support it either. [[Applause]] The PSOE has not supported all these initiatives, with which I think it is very important to know where we are and to know where we have to focus. I'm going to talk now, really, about the important thing that brings us here today, which is gender-based violence. With regard to these tax figures — tax exemptions and deductions — which you propose in your PNL, I would like to tell you that I believe that the reply to you made very clear to the Vice President of Galicia at the previous plenary session. On the one hand, there is a measure that is not being carried out -- thank you! -- measure 249 of the state pact against masculine violence, and it cannot be done by its incompetence in the government of the state. They give the autonomous communities money to carry out measures against violence, but, instead, when you have to do your job, they're not doing it at the state level. For the awareness-raising, information, advice and resources campaigns that you ask for, I also remind you that it was in 2016 when, in the debate on the state of autonomy, the People's Party proposed a specific work integration program for victims of gender-based violence, and you also voted against it. To tell you specifically what this is about economic violence, of which we are often hearing that there are no data, that there are no statistics, and that is not true, there is a 2015 macroeconomic survey of the Ministry of Health and Social Services that indicates that only 3.3% of women victims of gender violence have reported that they have suffered economic violence, in the face of physical, psychological or sexual violence. The conclusion is very clear: the victims of gender-based violence are women who work, study, and are not at risk of poverty and are not economically dependent on their abusers. We must know the reports, the studies, to focus on the focus, and of course we must respond to that 3.3 percent of women who suffer from this economic violence, but the focus must be focused and must be extended much, much further. The title of the film, in this sense, would be Councils seeing that I don't have it for myself. Of the three hundred and seventy measures of the Socialist Party's electoral programme, not a single talk of economic violence. Just like in the last electoral program of the Nationalist Galego Block, because of the fourteen measures and fifty-one pages, not a single talk of economic violence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u140	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u141	The Tides of We can exactly on the same line. So I think the work since the Galician Union is very clear on job placement, on economic resources for the victims. People, the professionals at the women's information centres know what I'm talking about. Resources in foster homes and in the care of orphans, that's what we must care about in this House and what we must work for. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u142	Thank you, Mrs. García Míguez. Author group of the motion, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u143	They just said, "Be calm, Mary." Actually, I'm going to stay calm, because answering Mrs. Garcia, frankly, to me is a loss of effort that doesn't deserve a single second.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u144	Quiet. Quiet, please! Each person is free to manifest himself. [[Protests.]] And Allah is All-forgiving, All-compassionate, All-compassionate, [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Of course. Silence! Freedom. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u145	What a sovereign, yes sir, Mrs. Prado! That's so proud!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u146	Silence, if not, we'll suspend a moment. We're going to be quiet. Students have just come in now, and I think we should give a better picture on a subject like that. Quiet, please. [[Murmurs.]] Please! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's keep calm. Go ahead, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u147	If moderation is sovereign... Today we are pleased with the Socialist Party to discover that the spirit of this initiative has been understood, at least on this bench, not on the People's Party. For this group it was — and it was — essential to stop that because of having suffered violence during a couple's relationship, if you add another kind of violence that prevents the victims from moving forward with their life plans. For us it is essential not to perpetuate the linkage with those who have been or are aggressors in time. This kind of situation affects not only the victims but also the children and children in charge. I insist, during the presence of today's councillor, we talked about psychological support for victims in the early stages, but also in the last stages, if there are last phases, and that's also what this motion is about. Please ask yourself, in case you were kidnapped and kidnapped, that during your captivity you were raped and raped, that during that captivity you were assaulted and assaulted, and you thought that if you were released, if you were lucky, you had to communicate with your aggressor at least once or twice a month. Do you honestly think that they would overcome psychologically or trauma? Well, that's the reality of many women, Mr. Pazos, who are victims of physical violence suffer a second revitalization through economic violence. They are young women, children of their aggressors, and we have and we had the possibility to relieve their burden by doing so from social justice, that which we aspire to be the one that represents a modern society as it should be the Galician, aware of the drama that many women live in our country. [[Applause]] I'm glad that today... well, I'm glad! I'm so innocent that I've written positive, that I'm optimistic! I hope that one day our Autonomy shows enough political maturity to work to design these changes in tax measures to facilitate the path of recovery of victims and, of course, not to squander the opportunities for the future of the children who live and suffer such violence as well. We insist that, if periodic aid is well fundamental, it should also avoid the traps of economic violence, especially when a man's proven condition as an aggressor is known, it should be another of this government's objectives. Let's also remember that a solvent woman can also be a victim of economic violence, simply because the aggressor will find in that use the blackmail of common defaults and obligations, or even the subtraction of money from the common accounts, the reason that his victim will remain somehow attached to it. A domain that could be reduced by applying changes to tax and tax levels. Today, in any case, we are calling for changes involving the autonomous administration, which I think should be the first concern of this government. If there are formulas to contribute from the autonomic skills, I ask them not to spoil them and put them in place. For our part, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Rodil, what do you want the word for? Give a voice to Mrs. Rodil's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u149	On the basis of Article 76.3, by allusions made by Mrs. Míguez during her intervention that greatly affect the dignity of our group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u150	Sorry, she did... sorry. I was in the debate [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u151	That lady accused us of a crime.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u152	Please, please! I'm going to answer because I was in the debate and I was watching. Mr. Vega, please, I'm talking, a little bit of respect. I've been paying attention to the debate. Mrs. Míguez makes a statement...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u153	False.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u154	...No, it's not in principle rebutable, I made a statement to a person who in this case is condemned by the National Audience. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u155	No, that's... well, I'm not going to put myself here to debate that. He made a statement about our group...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u156	That's what I heard. You did not specifically mention...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u157	...assfirming that we did not condemn terrorist violence. And it's false, absolutely false. You're lying!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u158	No, thank you. That's it, that's it. Quiet, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u159	You're lying! And besides defamatory and false, they attack the dignity of many, many...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u160	Mrs. Rodil, your time is up. Thank you, that's it. It doesn't work, Mrs. Rodil. [[Applause]] Quiet. A little quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet for everyone. We are going to vote, but before voting, we are going to say hello to those who are visiting us today — if that's all right, Mrs Prado, please — I say we are going to say hello, if it seems good to you, to those who accompany us today in the gallery, who are the students of the cycles of Administrative Management and Administration and Finance of the Institute of Forgiveness, Burela, Lugo. [[Murmurs.]] Welcome to Parliament. I'm sorry they came right now because it's not normal, but it's the same thing today. I'm sorry, I'm so sorry. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u161	We shall proceed to the vote on the motions. Let's vote. Close the doors, please. We started by voting for the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Mrs. Maria Monserrat Prado Cores. The amendment by the Joint Parliamentary Group on the Left is accepted as an addition and a point vote is also made easier. Mrs Prado has already stated that she would allow a point vote. [[Mrs. Romero Fernández asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Romero, what points do you want to separate?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u162	We want to vote on the original initiative of the Galician Nationalist Block without the amendment, so it's point 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6A and 6B, and then that's what the Joint Left Group adds.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u163	So we first vote points 3, 4, 5, 6A and 6B. Right? Everything without the amendment? [[Mrs. Romero Fernández answers negatively.]] Everything without the amendment. [[Mrs. Romero Fernández answers yes.]] We vote. Vote of points 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6A and 6B of the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Monserrat Prado Cores, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made by the central government in relation to the labour situation in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 69. The voting is positive. The motion was therefore adopted by 69 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u164	Now I'm confused, I have to ask. Do we have to vote on the amendment or not? Add it? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, of course, this is the problem, now it's the problem. [[Murmurs.]] Do we have to vote for the addition, Counsellor? Excuse me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] She has doubts too, and you know it. Anyway, she has her doubts and I'm asking her, and I have them. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You know everything! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you have to vote? Yeah? [[Murmurs.]] For greater legal certainty, he said yes, we're going to vote for it. Only for greater legal security. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Well, let's vote for that addition. Presents in the room, 70; a vote rose. [[Murmurs.]] Well, I don't know, everyone there. You know that later the votes are published on the Transparency Portal. I'm just communicating this so everyone knows. We vote. Vote for the G.P. addition amendment. Joint Left Group to the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made by the central government in relation to the labour situation in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This addition is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u165	We now vote on the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, initiative of Mrs Maria Luisa Pierres López. No amendments were tabled. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Luisa Pierres López, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to the protection of the economic capacity of minors and victims of gender violence. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u166	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. We continue. We've already moved on to item 4 of the agenda: non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Joint Left Group, at the initiative of Da Luca Chao Pérez and two other Members, on the action to be taken by the Council of Galicia on the introduction of affective-sexual education in education
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u167	This motion for a non-law amends the Joint Parliamentary Group and the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u168	To formulate the non-law proposition has the floor to Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u169	Thank you, President. Mrs. García Míguez, you still have time to rectify and apologize. I'd dignify it. In politics, Mrs. Míguez, it's not worth everything. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u170	Quiet. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u171	Look at the members of the People's Party taking part and participating! It's just an amazing thing!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u172	Quiet. Calm down. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u173	Today, of course, it's great to see Parliament with so many young people, because the initiative we bring is specifically aimed at youth. An initiative that we consider essential in the fight against macho violence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u174	Shh, shh, shh, shh, shh,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u175	...which, as you can see, doesn't matter very much. We are talking, once again, of the need to turn classes into a preferred place of social transformation, a space for the destruction of machoism from the first years of life and for the promotion of equality and for diversity. In this sense, affective-sexual education is of paramount importance. Logic is clear: it's at the school stage where children develop their sexual identity, and it's also that stage where they're going to have their first affective-sexual relationships, it's the stage where they learn behaviors and assume the traditional roles associated with gender. It is therefore years when the administration should not spare resources for a future on an equal footing — yes — but also for a present on an equal footing for girls and boys on equal and happy terms. We want happy children and children, happy girls and young people; whoever they are, Amen to whom we love. A happy, free childhood, where news like we read last week in Carballo never takes place, where homophobic aggressions like last week are never repeated. If there's a child plowing two girls because they're kissing doesn't lead us to act right away, we'll have to rethink what we're doing in a House like this. And at this point, we have to be clear and powerful: no, the ink is not worth the ink. Now, right away, the ultra propaganda of Make yourself heard from the teaching centers! Get out of here! We don't leave it at the will of the schools, we take it away! In the defence of equality we will not allow a single step back — they can still be rectified by the People's Party. Equality is not optional, the fight against multiple Machist violence is not optional. We're talking about fundamental human rights, and they can't depend on whether the center looks good or not, on the management teams or on the families, as the hate messengers claim. Machism learns; equality and respect for diversity, too. I mean, it's time to act right now. Real equality is built on prevention and education, applying the theoretical and practical frameworks that defend co-education, which should be the guiding principle of any teaching system in a democracy. Such co-education should be based on the precepts of equality between men and women and on non-discrimination on the grounds of sex, and should include an affective-sexual education on all educational levels that enables the development of a sexuality based on respect and real equality between women and men, in gender identity, in learning the resolution of conflicts without violence and in teaching on equality and equity values in which all people have settled. That's why we're defending this proposal: an education in affective-sexual diversity and gender as a guarantee of respect, empathy and freedom; on the line, no less or less, which is marking UNESCO. In the 2018 report, international technical guidance on education and sexuality: a evidence-based approach, the United Nations Educational Organization offers a new definition of integral education in sexuality. It says that integral education in sexuality is a process that is based on a curriculum to teach and learn about the cognitive, emotional, physical and social aspects of sexuality. Its objective is to provide children, children and youth with knowledge, skills, attitudes and values that will empower them to realize their health, well-being and dignity; to develop respectful social and sexual relationships; to consider how their choices affect their own well-being and that of others, and to understand what their rights are throughout life to ensure that they are protected. The integral education in sexuality that UNESCO proposes is characterized by being scientifically accurate; that is, based on evidence, not opinable, gradual, appropriate to the ages and stages of development of all children and children, boys and girls, favourable to the satisfaction of human rights and based on gender equality. So it seems to us a very good starting point to rethink what are the teachings in affective-sexual education that is being received by young people from Greece. According to the professionals of the Galician Society of Sexology, affective-sexual education would have to start at the age of three and extend throughout the entire educational life to the university — something that does not happen in this country. In Galicia, sexual education is reduced only to courses and workshops that are provided from the network of Kerote+ centers and other voluntary associations. That this is clearly insufficient to say, firstly, the common sense itself; and secondly, the statistical data we have, which are worrying. First of all, over 80% of young people and girls between the ages of thirteen and eighteen think they're "well" or "very well-informed" about sexuality; however, 9% of them never admit to using contraceptive methods. Another data: 21% of girls — the fifth — recognises having gone to the pill of the day after or to another emergency contraceptive. Another data: 3.6% of adolescents between 13 and 18 years of age claim to have become pregnant or have caused pregnancy. Full education in sexuality provided by professionals throughout the student's life would clearly allow these figures to be reduced. There are good reasons, therefore, to rethink what is the training we are imparting today in Galicia and to adopt all the indications made by UNESCO. We think that it is clearly a scarce training; it is not enough to call it something because today, in this country, in this course, only twenty-six educational centres are forming part of the Sexual Education Project Plan. That's the only stable plan we have, which doesn't depend on whether you want or don't know what you want to do. The only specific sex education plan given in schools by the Education Council is this, the Cherote More Programme, which affects twenty-six schools throughout Galicia. Twenty-six teaching centers of a total of four hundred, a figure that is clearly insufficient, cannot be hidden from the fact that we're doing it wrong. Education, therefore, is scarce, this is a problem before which the Administration has an obligation to act, because the more affective-sexual education girls and boys receive the less risks they run and the more responsive they have. In fact, according to the World Health Organization, in countries with regulated sexual education, dependent on public administration, sexual initiation is later, there are fewer unwanted pregnancies and fewer sexually transmitted diseases; that is, it improves their lives and hence improves society as a whole. We want or not — whether we've warned you on other occasions — children and children will access information about sex, since they now have a single click on websites, via Youtube, or directly through the porn industry. And there they are receiving information that is not only true, that will not only distort them to adapt their forecasts to reality; it is that neither — and above all — is not equal. Working for society in equality that we want, therefore, implies that children and children learn about identity and sexual diversity, about consent and about desire, about contraceptives, about health, about the affective-sexual relations free, egalitarian, alienated from macho violence. And here the Education Administration has an obligation to take a step forward, it can be done, we have the clear skills and examples that have developed in other communities, such as the School Programme in Navarre; which, by the way, the People's Party not only opposed itself, but it has persecuted it, slandered it and signaled its leaders over and over again. This was done by the People's Party. What was UNESCO doing? To award this program as the best example of an equality program in that year. We're more than just being with UNESCO. The question is clear: what are we going to do in Galicia now to improve affective-sexual education among young people? And why hasn't it been done until now? We really can't understand it. In fact, when we asked the teacher about this, five months ago, he didn't come to answer this question by sending another counselor to answer. We're worried. Because in this, as in everything, doing nothing is doing; not educating in affective-sexual and family education and gender identity is a way of perpetuating a heteropatriarchal society, based on a lack of empathy, ignorance and invisibility. And the worst of all is that everything ends up being translated into hatred, aggression, suffering and unhappiness for the children, children, girls and young people of this country. Ensuring the invisibility of diversity and removing the student from knowledge causes fear among minors and adolescents who translate into aggression and violence towards their equals; but which can be fought, which is easy to fight. The feminist movement has been saying it for many decades: sexual education to decide. That's how professionals and teachers are asking for it every time they're asked about it. That's what health professionals say, and every year the student movement demands the need to include affective-sexual education in their curricula; that is, consensus is broad, consensus is out there. That's why we are presenting this initiative in which we urge the Government of Greece to adopt UNESCO's indications and ensure that boys and girls contain in school with affective-sexual education from the age of three to the university. In fact, there would be one question we can ask: what is the fear of education in equality and diversity? What can we lose? How is it possible we're not doing it until now? If education in affective-sexual diversity we all win, we win the whole society; and we will of course have a happier, more equal and freer future. For our own sake, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u176	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u177	Well, we're going to support this initiative, of course. Sexuality is a fundamental dimension of human beings, even as a species, even the development of the affectivity and sexuality of an evolutionary sign. Therefore, it should be treated with normality and naturality, beginning with integrating affective-sexual education into education from childhood to the end of adolescence. As the proposaler pointed out, UNESCO proposes an approach that is actually based on the scientific evidence of integral education in sexuality, so that the cognitive, emotional, physical and social aspects of sexuality are worked out in the educational curriculum. This aims to develop people — in this case, smaller people — in all their dimensions, also in affective-sexual, which is, of course, related to health, well-being and dignity. And this affective-sexual education prepares for childhood and adolescence to develop emotional-sexual relationships based on dignity, respect and self-being, the well-being of other people and on reproductive and sexual rights. Finally, affective-sexual education must, of course, graduate according to the evolution of people. But it's important that you start when you're a child, about three years old, because that's when the child's son-in-law process takes place. So the values of equality are guaranteed in education. Why? Precisely to prevent machismo, to prevent that enrollment of differentiated roles for each genre, which is something inevitable to the extent that we live in a masculine society, but the school must help to prevent it from being understood that since it is a child or a child it must be chosen for certain activities and the school must also contribute — as the proposal said — to ensure that LGTBI children and children naturally develop their gender identity. That's why we're also saying outside of the schools that make you hear those pamphlets. This helps affective-sexual education, and logically — and we want to highlight it as well — cannot normally be practiced in schools that start with sex. The paradox today is that our 3-4-year-olds immediately receive messages to see if they have young or young, but not school education about their affectivity and sexuality. So, far from ensuring that integral sexual education in education. As was said in the exhibition of motives, through the centers of Love you campaigns are carried out, but they are insufficient in the territory, and we remember, in addition, that they were misdirected by the People's Party. As in the rest of the world, what is winning is the tendency for childhood and adolescence to increasingly access sexuality through the viewing of pornography on electronic devices. It is considered that this visualization of pornographic content is started at age eight and is generalized from fourteen. If it's already hard to process access to pornographic content by a child's mind and a teenager without having any previous information on what sexuality means, the more it is to access violent pornography, where there are dominant attitudes. So this is something very worrying, we have to do a study and see if it's related to this increase in machismo in adolescence. But the solution, of course, is not to prohibit it, it is not to put doors in the field, but through that affective-sexual education in teaching you can work on this aspect in the corresponding ages. It is true that the doubts and the sensation of clandestineness in the discovery of sex by adolescents are natural, but the current problem is that feeling of knowing everything about that profusion of information and content on the Internet. Affective-sexual education — as has been said — is also essential for combating unwanted pregnancies and sexually transmitted diseases, which are worryingly increasing between youth. And finally, no less important do we consider that affective-sexual education in school can strongly contribute to preventing child sexual abuse, insofar as it gives children themselves tools to detect abuse behaviors. It will not, unfortunately, eradicate all sexual abuse of children, but it is important that children have mechanisms to identify early signs of abuses in order to report them. It seems to us to be an important aspect. We agree, of course, with the non-law proposal, to move forward within the framework of UNESCO guidelines, and the amendments we have made are in the direction of how to implement them. We believe that through an affective-sexual education plan participated in by the educational community, with pilot programs for integrating social education and school nursing into schools, because these kinds of professionals have mechanisms and skills to be able to address problems and doubts regarding affective-sexual education beyond teachers, as well as teaching materials. Precisely a study on the influence of pornography in these macho attitudes on youth and specific awareness campaigns on the good use of the Internet and the risks of cyber-acoustics, which we will also talk about in the next PNL or the last one, which I don't know what time it is today. So nothing else. We support the proposal not of law but including those types of nuances.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u178	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u179	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. The People's Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment to this LNP because there is a clear willingness to continue working on such an important and sensitive issue as affective-sexual training. In fact, as explained by the proposal of the Joint Left Group, UNESCO reviewed its international technical guidelines on sexuality education carried out in 2009 to accommodate social changes and trends, in order to transfer a document reflecting the challenges and challenges of 21st-century society to face an integral education in sexuality that provides -- I quote it textually -- "a structured learning in sexuality and relationships in a positive and focused manner on the best interests of Thursdays". This document aims to be a guide for designing accurate and adapted study plans for students aged 5-18 years, through key concepts on topics and learning goals adapted to local and social contexts. Here we see a small contradiction in Mrs. Chao's exhibition, which talks about they want to follow UNESCO's lines and, however, we see that the old stages do not exactly match the guidelines that mark this organization. UNESCO itself indicates that the most outstanding of these new guidelines is its integral character and its positive approach. In addition, sexual education also plays an important role in achieving sustainable development goals, particularly those referred to as health and well-being, quality education and gender equality. Ladies and gentlemen, the governance action of the Galician Union fully coincides with the spirit of Unesco's guidance, for its integral approach has been being practiced in our autonomous community for years, even this morning in the intervention of the vice-president, so, Mrs Chao, fear nothing, rigorism all. We can't agree with you in the statement that in Galicia sex education is reduced to courses and workshops that are given in the network of centers Cherote and other associations, and you know that. I want to think that you know, because otherwise it would not be understood that I had come here to defend a LNP since the absolute ignorance of what is happening in Galicia. Galicia defends the issue of coexistence in the classrooms, betting for a teaching that addresses attention to diversity from legislation and planning measures including equality and educational innovation. And allow me to set examples that accompany this statement. I'm sure the student who heard her earlier was amazed by her intervention, because they certainly know what is being done in class. For example, the Education Protocol to ensure equality, non-discrimination and freedom of gender identity; the Guide to Digital Identity, to the dispositions of both families and students, teachers and managers; the I Action Plan for Equality in the Education Centres of Galicia 2016-2020, designed in collaboration with the General Secretariat of Equality precisely with this comprehensive approach, as the Vice-President also commented this morning; the Co-educational Guide, which announced to us the advisor that it was being developed, to contribute to the dissemination and extension of the principles of equal education, in order to reduce the impact of gender stereotypes and macho violence; training for students and teachers; specific training with the ICI module, equality, coexistence and inclusion; activities within the Project Plan and other actions. Equality bag, awards for equality etc. Program contracts, a tool that has just approved your call for this academic course, offering three new fields linked to each other: Iguáate, Convive, Include. Free autonomous configuration materials, which, since 2016, are expanding each year. For example, in 2016 gender equality is extended, which has a block dedicated exclusively to gender relations and affectivity. In 2017 it increases with European democratic values, assimilating European democratic values to those that give rise to the illustrated tradition that gave rise to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights: principles of equality, democracy, diversity, in order to promote inclusion. And the last enlargement, co-education for the 21st century, which among others addresses the construction of equal identities. And yes, I also love you More centers, which perform a great task of counselling, training and information on self-esteem, affective-sexual education... but it also works from the Health Council, for example, on the People's Initiative with Don, within the Project Plan, or for the creation of the Gender Identity Protocol. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to extend any further by commenting on the actions being taken in this area, and I am going back to the beginning, not without commenting on the fact that we are not right — I am sorry, Mrs Verao — the amendment to add to this Joint Group's GNP, because, by highlighting its name, it mixes many realities that either do not fit into the field of education, or are already being done, or are rightly included in the amendment of the People's Group. And I'm done. For the People's Group this amendment represents an advance, it wants to move forward towards affective-sexual education in school. It's an addition amendment because, despite all the facts and what is being done, we want to continue to work so that our teaching continues to have as pillars diversity, equality, inclusion and innovation, in search of quality teaching, so that the Greeks and the Greeks of the future are free and owners of their destiny. I hope they accept our amendment. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u180	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio Vilasánchez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u181	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. We agree with the non-law proposal that is being debated now, but it is also true that we find it overly general. We have also put forward a non-law on sexual violence from our group, from BNG, which also includes a part that has to do with comprehensive education in the field of affective-sexual education, in the field of sexuality and diversity. We believe that, as we formulate it, we must start from a diagnosis to know what the results of the actions have been developed in recent years; what is the degree of knowledge of content in the field of sexuality and in the field of affectivity between childhood and adolescence; what are the stereotypes that persist, prejudices, gender roles etc. From that study, we understand that from that point of view, this analysis of the results, what has to be done is to draw up a comprehensive education plan, which is actually adapted to the various educational stages which cover the set of compulsory education in our country, and which is actually adjusted — as is proposed from this non-legislative proposal as well — to the criteria that have been marked by international organizations, UNESCO or, previously, the rapporteur for the teaching of the United Nations since 2013. When we put the question that we raised a year or so ago, I don't remember, that answered the Social Policy Advisor, we began by referring to that phrase of Kate Millett's radical feminism, that political personnel and sexuality, in fact, is a matter that has to do with our human nature, with our human condition, and is intrinsically linked to the development of our personality. It has a personal dimension, it has a social dimension and therefore it has a political dimension, even though we have created many times that because of the fact that no regular education is developed, from the educational sphere, from the public sphere, in affective-sexual matters, so much that we believe that this is what makes society not informed, it is false, it is a huge lie, because people are always informed, by action or by default, whether through schools, both families, our families, the same times, and, above all, through the media, so that the decision not to be affixed decisively from an integral and strategic position on affective-sexual education is what makes it possible to implement the hidden curriculum, as defined by the United Nations Organization, and that we give it an enormous power that does not correspond to this great industry of pornography, which has become virtually the only source of information for youth and the whole of society in our country. First, because it's still a taboo, it's not talked about in the public domain, and very little about private, about sexuality and, above all, about affectivity and sexuality from a position -- I insist a lot on this -- which goes beyond risk prevention, which has much to do with human development itself, with pleasure, with other approaches that are often secondary or that are omitted to continue maintaining this biologicalistic view of sexuality linked to reproduction that has so much harm done to us, especially to women. This was said by the UN itself in 2013, in the report by the rapporteur for education: The absence of planned, democratic and plural sexual education is in fact a default model of sexual education of remarkably negative consequences for the lives of people, which reproduces acritically the practices, notions, values and patriarchal attitudes, which are the source of multiple discrimination. We insist that for us, for BNG, the most important thing would be, first, to do an analysis of what the starting situation is, and then to make strategic planning. We will support the initiative anyway. We will also insist on the non-law proposal that our group has put forward. And simply warning us of what the consequences of this omission are, that this hidden curriculum that is kept in Greek society and in the whole society of the Spanish State leads us to the fact that the generations we enjoy with the greatest rights — formally recognized in relation to the previous generations — we continue to reproduce acritically — as the United Nations warned — roles and prejudices that in many cases are also linked to a conception of sexuality which is neither plural nor plural, nor is it much less democratic. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u182	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think it would be appropriate to shed light on what we're discussing here. It's a non-law proposition by the Joint Left Group that literally calls on the Galician Union to adopt UNESCO's indications to ensure that boys and girls hold in school with an affective-sexual education from the age of three to the university. Regardless of the fact that UNESCO's report has been speaking since the age of five, it can be understood by extension that the initiative refers to children's education and not, of course, necessarily from the age of three. But this is a very relevant initiative. Very relevant considering practically that this is a full case monographic and because the approach given to it in this UNESCO report goes far beyond an excessively reductionist view of integral education and sexuality might suppose. And that's why I say it's a very relevant initiative in this plenary. Because professional experts in education and sexuality firmly believe — and this is based on scientific evidence as Mrs Chao said before — that comprehensive education and sexuality programmes have the potential to do much more than simply change sexual behavior, since that integral and sexuality education can help improve health in the long term, of course, to reduce gender violence and, in intimate couples, to reduce discrimination and increase equitable gender standards. So it goes far beyond that reductionist vision that I said is not exclusively related to the sexual domain. And it's also relevant because including our autonomous community within this procedure broadens the need that UNESCO itself recognizes to have more controlled and random evaluations of the highest quality of these programs. And she was very politely speaking to Mrs. Rodil of that hidden curriculum. And, in fact, we're going to try to move from the hidden curriculum in this area and in many others to the explicit curriculum; that is, assume that there are certain things, certain contents that must be part of the school curriculum. And as Mrs Chao said, this UNESCO report — we are talking about no less than that of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, which is not a body or second or third-level, but a top-level body, the first at the world level — is based on scientific evidence, evidence contrasting with reality, such as that education and sexuality within or outside educational boundaries neither increases sexual activity, nor sexual behavior at risk, nor HIV infection rates, nor other sexually transmitted infections. To say that starting students into certain knowledge necessarily involves boosting certain behaviors, that's taboo. There's scientific evidence that that's not true. That education and sexuality have positive effects, including greater knowledge by young people and girls and improved attitudes towards sexual and reproductive health and their behaviors. That is, almost all studies say that knowledge about the different aspects of sexuality and the risk of pregnancy or also of sexually transmitted infections increases. Programs that address both pregnancy prevention and HIV prevention and other sexually transmitted diseases are more effective than single-focused programs. That is, those who are directed, for example, exclusively to encourage the use of condoms or contraceptives. That using a global and explicit approach to rights in sexual education programs leads to short-term positive effects in relation to knowledge of attitudes, including -- and this is very relevant because if you have quoted many times in this plenary -- a greater knowledge of the rights of each person within a sexual relationship and greater self-efficacy to handle risk situations. That these programs when they have a generic approach -- sorry -- are significantly more effective than blind programs -- that is, those who don't take the gender perspective into account to achieve effective results. Which is much more likely that programs faithfully in their implementation, that is, when effective curricula are implemented as expected, have a positive impact on programs, against those who do not maintain their original design, either because their contents are not maintained or because they are not implemented for enough time. Because there is also evidence in this report that modifications to programs can reduce their effectiveness. And besides, and I'm not responsible for expressing myself about the content of the amendment of no other group, since the initiative is the Joint Left Group, in all respects, I have to say that this report is so solvent and so complete that it analyzes which key concepts of the eight that identify, with themes that reproduce this called "spiral curriculum", that is, we are going repeatedly through the same key concepts but appropriate to the age of the student who receives it, but also clearly identify how an effective curriculum should be and how it should be implemented. For these reasons and for all that I have said so far, our parliamentary group will support this initiative. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u184	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u185	First of all, saying that today can be a happy day. So instead of going into the mud that Mrs. Antonio was proposing, we're going to look forward and we're not going to accept that kind of debate, because they're not contributing anything to the goal of the initiative. We think the initiative is well worth it. And although it seems to us, with all due respect, that his amendment the only thing he was trying to do was to vote against, which is absolutely useless, we are going to accept it in search of consensus. We will accept it and thank all the groups for their willingness to try to move forward with a proposal like this, which we believe would be an important step forward in education and equality in Galicia. Having said what would be a reason to be collectively blessed, especially because, as I said before, education in equality and sexual diversity gains society as a whole. They win children and younger children, who have not developed their sexual orientation or their gender identity, learn from empathy that there are different ways of being and of loving; all equally valid, all with the same rights and freedoms. How can we not want children and children to learn that? Win youth, which will have tools to have healthier, informed, freer, happier emotional-sexual relationships. We therefore insist on welcoming positively the good disposition of the groups, especially the good disposition of the People's Party. Correction is always welcome. Because in this country this kind of training was given until the People's Party decided to put an end to that known as Citizenship Education. So the rectification is always welcome. And, moreover, we are pleased that you are sitting here on this side, because your Andalusian colleagues — Mrs Quinteiro told you today — have just signed with Vox a pact — yes, a pact — a document in which they said that this type of training is optional from now on, that families can decide that if they don't like sex education, but also if they don't like what they call "generic ideology", they turn away from the boys and girls from the classroom. That's what the People's Party has signed. So let's be glad, we welcome that this People's Party doesn't want — that's point 13, Mrs. Antonio, if we don't have a copy. We — I insist — want sex education to be feminist, diverse, systematic, not dependent on family beliefs or government colors. Therefore, it is collected in the educational system. That's what we're demanding, that sex education be effective, complete, comprehensive, and get to school before pornography is done, so that young people too can have the tools they can adjust to. I'm done. We thank the support and hope that it will indeed go forward. Sexual education is to decide everything and every day. Equality is not optional and, of course, equality is not negotiated. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u186	On the amendment of the Mixto, do you accept the amendment of the Mixto?, do you not accept it? Thank you, Mrs. Chao. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Gonzalo Trenor López and eight other Members, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government in relation to obtaining Community funds for the project of dredging and regeneration of the Burgo River, as well as the actions to be carried out for its execution
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u187	There are amendments to the Joint Parliamentary Group and to the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u188	Mr Trenor has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u189	Good afternoon, gentlemen. [[Murmurs.]] Good afternoon, Mr. Lago. Let me go, can I? Mrs. Chao said she didn't want to go into the mud. I have no choice but to go into the mud, talk about mud...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u190	Silence! Relax. I understand... Easy! You haven't started your time yet. Quiet, everybody. Anything else?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u191	They want to think of something...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u192	Do you want to think about something around here or something? Anything else? [[Murmurs.]] Moment of relaxation. If you think it's appropriate, then something else, right? I understand that this is tedious, but it is also for me, they will understand it. So help us take this the best way. Whenever you want, Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u193	Yes, today we're going to talk about mud, mud, rot, pollution, debris that's building up decades after decades, and maybe some might think we're going to talk about the Socialist Party. But no, that's not the point. [[Laughter]] It is true that with the seriousness of the sentence we know today, which gives us the greatest fraud in our country's history, perhaps it would be justified that we will only speak, intervention after intervention, of the Socialist Party. [[Applause]] But we also want to talk about what we're dealing with in Galicia, about the problems we have in our rivers, about the problems of sanitation, about the problem of cleaning our waters. And we're worried, and we're very concerned about the government's execution of the dredging state of the Burgo creek. In case someone doesn't know, Burgo's laugh is an extraordinary place; those who can enjoy it, those who live it, we are aware of the luxury of having within our reach a contour of their characteristics. It's not easy to find another similar place, not only in Galicia but also throughout Spain. But there's a problem: the mud contaminated; mud that needs to be removed for the cleaning and regeneration process to be completed. We've registered this non-law proposal for more than two months. But we didn't want to bring her to the debate before the general elections were held so that you wouldn't be able to resort to their so-called argument of electoralism. Maybe it was a mistake, because maybe it was good for the Greeks to go to the polls knowing the commitment of each of the parties that we represent on this camera with Burgo's laugh. I think it is good that citizens go to the polls with as much information as they can to decide on their vote. One might ask, for example, that it had happened in the polls if the devastating judgment of Spain's largest corruption case had been known before 10 November. That's what was planned, but the Socialist Party couldn't afford it, and strange technicalisms arose to delay everyone knowing the sentence condemning two presidents of the Socialist Party. And now you may wonder if you have lost only 750,000 votes and three Members, and if you could embrace between Churches and Sánchez if you have known the sentence we know today. These are questions that will not be answered, and these are questions that I think will spoil the entire legislation. [[Applause]] Let us bring this initiative, ladies and gentlemen, with concern and responsibility for a necessary action which has taken too long. An action that concerns us because of the information we have from the Central Government, the Socialist Party has done nothing about it, despite the commitment made a year ago at a meeting held with the Galician Union. Of course, the dredging of the Burgo River is part of the Galician Agenda, one of the priority demands of the Autonomous Community to the next government of Spain, whatever colour it is. The Galician Agenda picks up twenty-five issues, the most urgent and priority that the Government of Spain has to take care of our community. A courageous agenda, to demand and demand the Government of Spain, that the Union and the People's Party will defend whatever the Government is, since it is about defending the interests of the Greeks, the issues that affect the common well-being, that reach the present and also the future of Galicia, and therefore that they cannot depend on the political orientation of the Government of turn. For all this, ladies and gentlemen, today we are bringing this initiative to debate, to show our concern. We are sure that most of the groups in this House, except the Socialist Party of Gonzalo Caballero, are concerned about the lack of progress in this matter, so we believe that they will support this initiative. Concern about the lack of progress of the Ministry for the Ecological Transition in the Burgo River Dredging project as an integral regeneration project. A project that is complementary to the efforts made by the Greeks and the Greeks; a real effort that had its reflection on budgets which, year after year, allowed the Council of Galicia to carry out the sanitation projects of the river. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the Galician Union has always understood the sanitation of the Burgo River as a strategic priority to achieve the good state and quality of the waters of the river and to contribute to ensuring marine activity. The Board met, fulfilled its commitments to clean up the river, collaborating and supporting the municipalities in their sanitation and purification skills, taking forward the projects of the local sanitation plan of the Burgo stream that affected the four municipalities of the river: Coruña, Cambre, Culleredo and Oleiros. As great features of this action, it is, for example, that in 2010 it entered into service the expansion of EDAR of Goods; in 2012 the drafting of the Local Sanitation Plan of the Burgo River was finished; and in 2018 the Board completed the actions that were missing to complete the sanitation of the river. Ladies and gentlemen, the board has invested in the Burgo 100 million Euros, which must also be added to what the municipalities, the municipalities and their sanitation have done. It is now necessary, therefore, for the Union's efforts to continue by the Central Government, which executes the dredging of the Burgo River, an act of regenerating the coast of state competition. I strive that, after years of waiting, not to say decades, at last appeared in the budgets of President Rajoy, budgets that the People's Party approved and that you, the Socialist Party, did not execute. The 2018 budgets incorporated the investments necessary for dredging, specifying the annuals. These budgets, in case someone didn't know, were the best in history for La Coruña and its area, because, in addition to giving solution to the regenerating of the river, they also included resources to initiate the expansion and improvement of Alfonso Molina, the expansion of the Passage Bridge, the improvement of the train to Ferrol, the railway connection of Punta Langosteira, the connection of the highway to the third round, the 18th and fourth round, which included an investment of EUR 27 million. Budgets that the Socialist Party did not execute — it had to pay for social Fridays — and it touched on the Greeks to pay for them, with the non-execution of the budgets and also with the 680 million deliveries to the account that you were to all of the Greeks. Sorry, 670 million is what you stole in Andalusia, what you killed us was 700 million euros to all the Greeks. [[Murmurs.]] In the 2019 budgets, supported by Podemos — those who didn't go ahead because they didn't have the support of the House — you lowered investments for Galicia by 30%. But, Your Honor, for the Coruña region those budgets were lethal: the investments of Alfonso Molina disappeared, the train to Punta Langosteira also disappeared, the improvements of the train to Ferrol, the expansion of the Pasaxe Bridge, the 18th Avenue, the fourth round. Coruña, ladies and gentlemen, has disappeared from the budgets. It's too funny for you. The Socialist Party is very grateful because the Socialist Party has always mistreated Galicia, and it is very grateful that the investments it had to come here were for other communities, for other cities. But, look, thanks to the budgets approved by the People's Party, the Ministry for Transition -- it must be the laugh of those who know they acted badly, because if they didn't understand it -- [[Laughter]] Thank you, Mrs Rumbo, for the budgets of the People's Party, the Ministry for the Ecological Transition has drafted the draft dredging and environmental regeneration of the river with a planned investment of 46 million euros. Part of that investment would be multi-annualized in budgets, and for the rest it was the Galician Union that gave the solution. At a meeting held on January 15 this year between the Central Administration, the Galician Council and the Town Council, the Union proposed to redirect the inexecutable European funds in time for this action, and all those present were in agreement. The Ministry, ladies and gentlemen, has tried to extend the destination of funds, but the fact is that until now the Central Government of the Socialist Party has paralysed everything that affects Galicia, and the laugh would not be an exception. Today, the ministry has not done the necessary procedures to comply with the agreement. This, ladies and gentlemen, is to miss the word, to breach the commitments, to lack institutional loyalty and with the Greeks, to lack interest and the will of the Socialist Government of Pedro Sánchez to comply with the pact. We're almost at the end of the year and the central government hasn't done its homework, it hasn't done the deal ten months later, because it hasn't been addressed to the Community institutions to transfer that demand from the Galician Union. Too bad the Socialist Party would betray our community again, but here in Galicia it has accomplices who do not have the courage to defend the interests of all the Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago the Socialists said that the Ministry of Ecological Transition had processed the file since May this year, and that is why it could be financed from European funds. They made statements to the press and lied. They lied to the press, they lied to the Greeks, they lied to us all. I don't know what they tell you about Madrid, but what I can tell you is that the European Commissioner for Regional Policy has answered a question from Euro MP Francisco Villar Mon and said that the body responsible for attending the request for the extension of funds is the Directorate of European Funds of the Spanish Ministry of Labour, and that to date the Commission has not received any requests to amend an operational programme in connection with the financing of the Burgo River Dredging project.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u194	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u195	To finish, ladies and gentlemen, just clarifying that the Spanish Government did not file this application, despite the fact that on January 15 it committed itself to the Union, to the councils and to the confrere to do so. They just had to move a paper, and they couldn't even do that. His incompetence, ladies and gentlemen, and his indentation with Galicia has no bounds. That's why we bring this initiative, to defend Galicia's interests and also to defend the interests of the Crown and its area. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u196	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u197	Good afternoon. Well, let's go back to the same. In employment they don't do what they should and don't run budgets, because, according to you and your famous statistics, it's all going to be phenomenal. We are the champions in the generation of jobs, according to the councillor of Fairy yesterday. In industrial planning and dynamization, nothing is done, and here, in the face of the collapse of the industrial production index and the repeated closure of business crises, they can't say nothing happens. The solution, once again, is to get the dead out of it. Everything is competence and responsibility of the Government of the State. Now they also renounce environmental competences. Now, in your opinion, the environmental regeneration of the Galician rivers is only state competence. It will be in the case of Burgo's laugh, as an exception. At this rate, we don't have more competences anymore, you haven't developed any new ones, but you're giving up those you have. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, they can come here and ask the Government of the State for proactivity in the appropriate part, and see if it's true what you say that they haven't even processed that request. If it is true, we must ask for explanations and responsibilities. But do you know when the dredging demands of the Burgo River began? In 2009. Therefore, I think that in order to have legitimacy you should also say that you have done this matter in your ten years of government and in Mr. Rajoy's seven years of government. I would also like to, because they're headlines that go out repeatedly, and of course, a headline, if it repeats a thousand times, at the end it seems like it's all like that. I'd like to see the breakdown of those 100 million you spent on regenerating the Burgo River. I'd like to meet him, I don't know him. I know they did things, but 100 million seem to me very much. Above all, what they are doing and what they are planning to do now, because, according to the 2020 budgets, nothing. There's a fine in Marea asking for money for the regenerating of the Burgo River in the budgets of the Galician Union, but there's nothing in the budgets of the Galician Union. It would be another challenge to The Crown. And it's true, as well as in the budgets that Mr. Sánchez presented in early 2019. I imagine, Mr. Trenor, that you know that of the budget devoted to the seven cities of Galicia, the Coruña comes only 3%. Do you think this is reasonable? I don't know why they punish Coruña like this: the intermodal station, comprehensive reforms in the dining rooms and in the children's education centers, in the CEIP. The Disabled Center of the Jubias in a lamentable state; the Health Center of Saint Lucia, also forgotten him; essential performances in Culleredo, Chamber, Oleiros, Artexo etc. All adjourned sine die. Yeah, it's everyone else's fault, it's always someone's fault. Do you really intend to win the elections in Coruña with this wish? Really? Ever? Well...! Let's get back to the matter of the non-law proposition. In January this year, the Council of Galicia and the State Government said that the matter was angry, that there was funding for the regeneration of the Burgo River, and planned to bid itself between March and July. The election call left that at stand by, and an estimated budget of 48 million euros and 21 months of execution was calculated. There was a shortage of EUR 24 million out of state budgets, and the Union has proposed — as it always does — a reallocation of funds from the European Union. If you can, perfect, but those funds have to be for works that end at the end of 2020, and if the work needs 21 months, it is clear that today it is impossible to access those funds. So, in view of the impossibility of accessing those funds, what do you intend to do to the Galician Union? Forget about Burgo's laugh? To ask the State to assume a competition in which at least one fundamental part of the Council of Galicia is at least? They believe that they will, because of course, they are going to give up their environmental competences as well, which I think are clear...! I had heard that the dredging of Pontevedra's creek would make it to Galician Union, the dredging of Ferrol's creek too, why not Burgo's laugh? And that's where our amendment goes. You are indeed right to complain to the State, but say also what it will bring to Galician Union. There goes point 3. And what surprises us a lot more is point 4 -- in his PNL it comes as point 3 but repeated, it would be point 4 -- when they urge the state to make compensations to mariners who may be affected by the work. But is fishing and shellfishing not the competence of the Galician Union either? It seems good to us that you should also be asked, within the budget of the work, to participate in the State, but listen!, the fishing and seafood powers are of the Unity of Galicia, who should lead the initiative would be the Union of Galicia. That, in any case, calls for collaboration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u198	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u199	Finally, lords of the Government of Galicia and the People's Party, do not continue to use citizenship as a hostage to their electoral partisan policies. This is one more argumentary directed to the elections, and as you said, the citizens of the Crown and their region don't deserve this inaction. If the Government of the State places its share, the Council of Galicia also responds as it should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. Casal. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u201	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Trenor, the truth is that it gives me the feeling that you're doing merit to go to the Coruña lists in the next election campaign. It starts pretty early, it's four years left! It's okay, he still has a lot to get out, unless they wake him up at the last minute. And look, in something I'm going to give you the reason: who has the full capacity to talk about debris and to talk about garbage is the People's Party. You're absolutely right! You're absolutely right! Yeah, yeah, you're absolutely right. [[Applause]] The only party convicted of corruption. [[Protests.]] To rule, according to the RAE...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u202	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u203	...is to lead a country, guide and direct. The People's Party of Feijóo in Galicia has the mandate of most of this country to direct and guide this country and to manage its resources. And the reality is that the Council of Galicia, instead of governing, directing, solving problems, what it does is to seek guilty. Find guilty, yes, Mr. Trenor. [[Applause]] The problem of the dredging of the Burgo River did not arise in June 2018 when Pedro Sánchez entered the presidency of the Government. No, Mr. Trenor, no. The problem of the dredging of the Burgo River comes from far away, and I'm going to make a narrative of Mr. Mariano Rajoy's seven years of government. Do you remember the year 2013, when the European Parliament's Committee on Petitions issued that report on the French rivers? Remember? This year's visit by European parliamentarians who were sinking in two yards of mud? Remember? The year in which the Ministry of the Environment started writing the dredging project? Well, look, since that earlock in 2013, Mariano Rajoy's government, in its continuous lethargy, has spent four years until it has had the environmental impact statement in 2017. And look, in the 2018 budgets, to those you referred to, Mr. Mariano Rajoy just donated 24 million euros. I mean, 52% of the 46 million euros that were needed, and I left the other 22 to fund the work to see how they went out in the air. The Government of Mariano Rajoy also held that an agreement had to be reached with the Council of Galicia and with the municipalities for the total financing of the work. And by the way, about that necessary agreement between the various administrations, including the Galician Union, there are several writings of parliamentary or institutional responses made by the People's Party itself. I mean, when Mariano Rajoy ruled in the state, the board of Galicia was silent and nothing was said, and they kept that in order to get 100 percent of that investment they had to participate. With the arrival of the Government of Socialists to Moncloa on June 7, 2018, as you well said, it was the Ministry of Ecological Transition that assumes this project and re-examines it in the same terms. So, what is the position of the Galician Union at that time? Well, look, I'll tell you. The former owner of the Environmental Council, who is sitting here, Mrs. Beatriz Mato, said: "Ask Pedro Sanchez." It's written, it's collected in the press. The PP bet is shown by supporting a high GNP by the BNG, which called for inclusion in the state budgets of the 22 million euros in the air. And look, I'm literally going to give you the answer that you gave in this parliamentary headquarters at that time, in the plenary session of this House, on April 11, 2018, when you literally answered a question: "If you want me to have a concrete answer, if you want anyone to give it away, you know very well — better than me — that whoever has to address it is the one who has the competition, in this case, of daring. You and your training have a representation in the Congress of Deputies, where I hope that, in addition to being accompanied by seafarers, you will also ask the same question, which has competence." But are we kidding? Are we kidding? Man, please! [[Applause]] You have a government mandate and you have a duty to fulfill, and if you don't have the funds, to look for them. What do they send? You would think it would be normal for me to come here today and say, "Tell your Members in Congress to solve this problem." It's indecent, indecent! this answer. Indecent! And, look, they have the defiance to put in the explanatory statement of this initiative that the sanitation of the Burgo River is a strategic priority of the Government of Galicia. What priority or strategy? Stop fucking with us! Stop fucking with us!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u204	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u205	In the previous legislation, these initiatives! And in this, two in September. Stop fucking with us!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u206	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u207	And look, I'm going to tell you, Mr President, the next one. Mrs Ethel Vázquez, who manifests in the media that she has no news of these managements, received verbally...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u208	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u209	...and by letter, information from the Secretary of State of the Environment in which he was informed that in June this year...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u210	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u211	...—now finished—in the follow-up committee...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u212	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u213	President, they're doing something about what you've called attention on many occasions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u214	Who did what?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u215	He just did. Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u216	I'm already warning you. Silence! Silence! Mr. Fernández Prado, silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! Quiet, Mr. Trenor and Fernández Prado, what's up? You'll answer Mr. Trenor later. Finish. Your time is up, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. He was out of time. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Your time is up, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. [[Applause]] Mr Rivas Cruz has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u217	I can talk, but I can't go out now, but I've been spending a few seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u218	I'm gonna take you off 14 seconds now. You can start again.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u219	Thank you. I was asking you, Mr Trenor, where you put the wishes of the president of your party here, to compromise with the PSOE to rid us of the Jewish territory, Marxist, separatist who is crumbling in Madrid. Where do you put those wishes? [[Applause]] By the way, tomorrow they're forty-four years old that we secretly celebrate the death of a murderer. And the next day there was a celebration at the doors of the houses in the form of empty cava bottles. [[Applause]] The instance of the BNG in the European Parliament is to take into account the lamentable state of the Welsh rivers of Pontevedra, Ferrol and Burgo. Let's focus on Burgo. As a result of the complaints made by our European Parliamentary Ana Miranda, this party was visited by a delegation of European Members in 2013 which resulted in a report on its deplorable state of health. The visit is qualified by the group as "impacting" when referring to the situation of the river. And there he stood. And it will be a year ago that once again Ana Miranda, collecting the complaints from the Burgo River Platform, managed to reopen the case and the investigation into the state of compliance with the Burgo River's Comprehensive Regeneration Plan, which includes dredging, removing, cleaning and treatment of mud. First curiosity. When this reopening was dealt with, the PP MEPs voted against it. I hope Mr Trenor explains it to us. The babies in Galicia, too. Will [...] be able, making a supreme sacrifice, to sacrifice Galicia's interests for the general interests of the European empire. Mr. Trenor, please give us light. Because the case is dramatic and state budgets have not in recent years contemplated dredging, essential treatment for the regeneration of this productive space, employment generator and urgent environmental need. It is also dramatic that, of the many Members and Members who give Galicia, only one has an impact on the problems over and over again. Any chance it's BNG? No, no, no, no. Coherence, yes. Over the last few years, more than seven hundred jobs have been lost in this creek because of its growing deterioration, and those who really feel the country, it hurts and moves. Some of the Welsh laughs is a real disincentive. We believe that any government or businessman who, being in his sanatorium, had the opportunity to put in place a generator project of more than a thousand direct jobs, coupled with a necessary environmental wealth, all by the irony amount of 48.6 million euros, would not lose a second in looking for the money, so it would have to be moved under the stones of the mess by hand pattering to the mud if needed. We're talking about a natural space that would give us nearly two thousand families bread and which, if the common sense assists us, could, with the passage of some years with political intent and budgetary disposition, restore that situation. And now the PP, as the one who disguising himself of a prolonged sixth, goes and puts emphasis on the responsibilities of the State Government and does so when they are not, and uses energetic gesture to make him look good. Well, see, the Welsh PP has responsibilities to delay preceptive documentation, budgeting, water purification. And with the PP in Madrid, how old did Rajoy's government look elsewhere? Because, lords of the PP, it was amazing when a million or two seemed enough to include the name of Burgo's laugh in state budgets and thus justify the determination, incompetence, inappetence around here, by the laugh, by the Greek, and submission to the Meseta and its interests. And besides, they never spent that money. How long has the environmental impact statement been stopped? And the final project? I don't want to be too offensive. Now go. Looks like she's going now. In Europe, European funds were redeployed, even for a highly appointed EDAR, which could not be justified before 2021 and which could be transferred to the river. Okay, because the story is settled, and under the PSOE government he doesn't wake him up, or he didn't want it or nobody remembered him and didn't bother asking for it. They should have done it in February or March, but they didn't. In September this year, the part-time but dedicated Member of Parliament, Ana Miranda, again drew attention to the fact that the Government of the State had not claimed those funds available. Doesn't he care about the state? Will you have another destination for those funds? Will it be lazy? How many Members have been elected by Coruña? I think eight. We have only one, you'll see how companion Nestor takes Burgo's laugh on the farm, along with many other needs and forgetfulness of this common country. Mr. Trenor, our vote is not with you, which shows little shame with this LNP. Nor with the PSOE, who once again forgot to manage this matter in Europe.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u220	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u221	Our vote will be six in the Burgo River, its dredging, its regeneration and its urgency, because it is fair, because we are from this blessed land and we exercise as her children without any other obedience. Now for us! Amen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas. For the Joint Left Group, Mr. Young González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u223	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all of us. The first of all, I would like to ask you here, as a couñes, to speak of the Coruña, to the Council of Galicia, to finish at once the only work that is underway in the city of Coruña, a pedestrian gateway between the Marineda and the Lidl that has been behind for years. One play. Please, ladies and gentlemen of the Galician Union, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, urge the Galician Union to finish the only work that is in progress!, the only work! [[Applause]] Yes, Mrs. Bea Mato, you know very well. But we came here today to talk about Burgo's creek, not the town of Coruña and the budgets, which we've been talking about for several days. Burgo's laugh is not just the city of Coruña, there are many other municipalities and there are many other things, and above all, I would like to focus here today — someone said that the debate was practically monographic about women — and I would like to talk about those women seafaring women working under the Bridge of Passage against wind and tide, against stealthyism, against the verquides, who continue to survive there despite the policies and despite the inaction of the Unity of Galicia. Valeriano Martínez spoke of 40 years ago. We made 40 consecutive budgets of the Galician Union. Forty years ago, in the Burgo creek, 2,600 people were mascading. Forty years ago, or less, in 1998, 146,121 kilograms of plums and Berberectos were caught there. Last year, 34,000. 80% of that time ruled the People's Party in Galicia. Do you really think they have absolutely no responsibility in that environmental catastrophe and hence productive, economic, which unfortunately affected the Burgo's laugh? Do you think they really don't have any responsibility to that? And even more so, it's amazing to see today the pim, pam, pom. The people of the Coruña, the people we've been, we've always known where we were, around and clearly positioned and positioned in favor of the integral sanitation of the Burgo stream, we know and we've seen this pim, pam, pom between parties. On October 22, 2013 we recall that moment with great hope, as Mariano Rajoy Brey with most in the state, the People's Party with most in the Town Hall of the Crown and the People's Party with most absolute majority in the Unity of Galicia announced the bomb and dish that they were going to start, at last!, the integral sanitation works of the Burgo River. Obviously, five years later, nothing at all, nothing at all. The million every year budgeted and never executed. [[Applause]] And besides, with that budgeted ejacism, which they indicated here in a rather interesting way. By the way, I suppose they would want the Board to pay what was missing, which seems to us, in some way, with some logic, since, for example, the Fisheries Council last year, of 155 million left without running 75; of 150, it only executed 80,300,000 euros, 75 million from the Fisheries Council without executing. And we have pendant from Pontevedra, from Ferrol, from the repair and dredging of the port of Malpica, from the port of Foz, from the port of Laxe. They have responsibility for what happens; they have and many. And enough propaganda, enough to play this pim game, pam, pom between political parties, where they won't find us! For example, on the Fisheries Council, programme 723A, competitiveness and improvement of the quality of fisheries and aquaculture, 56 of the 66 million budgeted are left unimplemented, 56 of the 66 million budgeted! Of 2,600 people mascading in the 1990s, today there are 33 on foot and 50 on board. 80% of the time is ruling, and most of it is absolute by the People's Party. It seems to me of hypocrisy that the People's Party is present here today, with Mr. Trenor's speech, talking about whether the agreements are met and whether the compromise is fulfilled. On October 22, 2013, Mariano Rajoy Brey committed. And since I have a few minutes left, I'll read it. When Members and Members arrived in fact. "Meeting with the petitioners of the Burgundy's River. The members walked along the promenade next to the O Burgo river, went up to the boarding bridge, where the mud reached 2 meters thick, as indicated by the measurements on site. Obviously, the construction of the walking area and surrounding buildings had led to considerable financial investment, but it seems that the water or the surroundings of the river surrounding this area had not been taken into account. At another point, a man came down the steps dressed in special protective clothing and quickly found himself immersed into the thighs in the mud, from which he could only come out with difficulty and enough help." [[Murmurs.]] In 2014, ruling Mr. Mariano Rajoy Brey and at Galician Council and you. By the way, the Town Hall that, after years and years, eliminated the spills to the stream...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u224	Finish, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u225	...by the way, some works with a very low cost of tens of thousands of euros...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u226	Thank you very much, Mr. Young.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u227	...they were able to leave...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u228	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u229	...to pour the stream into the city of Coruña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u230	Thank you very much, Mr. Young.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u231	Anything you need to hear, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u232	Thank you very much. Mr. Trenor López has the floor for the author group of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u233	Mr. Young, lessons from infrastructures of the Atlantic Sea, few, eh! If there were still lessons to make contracts with friends of the Tide, I'd probably ask you for advice. [[Applause]] But look, Mr. Young, don't take it for granted. The removal of spills that Coruña had in the creek made it, made it, planned it, and made all projects my fellow Mr. Prado. Then at least acknowledge your credit. They were only able to execute what Mr. Prado left ready, ready! [[Applause]] They weren't able to make a single project, nor to invest anything that Mr. Prado hadn't left. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But look, Mr. Young, I understand that you are defending the Socialist Party, because you have been complicit and voted in favour of the worst budgets of history for our community, which have been lethal to the Crown. You defended that. [[Applause]] Mrs. Rumbo, you said that Mr. Feijó chose guilty. It's not true, they choose the judges. And the judges said the culprits were the presidents of the Socialist Party. It wasn't Mr. Feijóo, it was the judges. And look, Mrs. Rumbo, it was Mrs. Elena Espinosa in 2010, who undertook to clean up Burgo's creek. [[Applause]] The same lady who comes out on Panama's papers, the same one, committed nine years ago to do so. Don't head 'cause that's the way it was, you've committed yourself! [[Murmurs.]] Look, today is World Sanitation Day, November 19, until that's a good coincidence. You know the ERE sentence on World Sanitation Day, fantastic! Great! [[Laughter]] Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are all portrayed. [[Applause]] Look, and Mrs. Rumbo, something else. What we are talking about today is already agreed with the Ministry, is agreed with the Ministry! I'm terribly worried because you denied that agreement, the 15th January agreement. Then why do you come here to put that number? Are you kidding me or what? Sure, as you say, are you kidding me? Do you deny that agreement? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you deny that agreement? So why don't you vote in favour of our initiative? I don't understand! Ladies and gentlemen, the only thing the Socialist Party and the Joint Group want with their amendments is to try to exempt the Central Government from responsibility, so that they fall on all the Greeks and the Greeks. All you want is for the Greeks and the Greeks to pay what corresponds to the Central Government. You want that, after investing 100 million euros, 100 million euros!... Look, Mr. Casal, if you don't know if you've invested that 100 million euros, take your ipad, consult him and don't ask me questions here. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm not here to answer you. [[Applause]] Find her, do the job, 100 million euros. The last...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u234	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u235	...who did, precisely, the one who was Environmental Advisor, Mrs. Beatriz Mato. Mrs. Mato was the one who made the last million investments in the Burgo River.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u236	Finish it, Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u237	And you want us to sacrifice...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u238	Mr. Trenor, stop.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u239	...resources that we have to devote to health care, that we have to devote to education...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u240	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u241	...that we have to devote to social services, to do what the central government doesn't do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u242	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u243	You little cowards, who are not capable...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u244	Thank you very much, Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u245	...to defend the interests of our community! You're palm trees... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u246	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u247	... government stamps...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u248	Thank you very much, Mr. Trenor, your time is up. [[Murmurs.]] We don't have to shout so much because the speakers say they're going to listen to the Members. I say it for everyone, eh!, in general. I speak generally. The debate will be heard anyway. We moved on to the next non-law proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made by the Central Government on housing
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u249	There were no amendments to this non-law proposal. Mr Bará Torres has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u250	Good afternoon. Let's talk about housing. And there would be much more to talk about in this House. On housing, we can say that there are two alternatives, two options: understanding housing as a right, as a question of social policy, or understanding housing as a business, as a matter of commercial policy. We know which side we are on. We are, of course, on the side of the housing as a basic right and as a social policy. And we also know which side you're "vox" from the People's Party. On the side of the free market... yes, I say this because even though there's a lot of talk here about Vox, about condemning Vox, you're not going to condemn Vox because Vox and the Popular Party are the same thing. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] How will they be condemned?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u251	Quiet. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u252	So that means that the People's Party is on the side of the free market, of free competition, of speculation, of tax benefits for investment funds and for sociomis and of the diversion of billions of euros to save the Bank and condemn people. And this can only be qualified with a word: it's obscene. Their policies and propaganda regarding housing are obscenely cruel and unfair. This seems like a war in which the aggressor throws bombs of mass destruction and then, through an NGO, sends tyrants and aspirins to take care of the victims. These are your housing policies. It has much to do with the lack of public intervention, public policy, the fact of making housing available, the market, the free market. This has caused a perfect storm in recent years that has nothing to do with that Pedraphyta fog that Mr. Martínez told us about, it is rather a cyclogenesis, but a social cyclogenesis that is destroying society, the very foundations of society, social cohesion and the well-being of people. And it has much to do with two phenomena that have been accentuated in recent years: the drastic reduction in housing rentals, which have fallen to 3,500 in the last two years, so that 60% of the housing that were in the rental market have gone to tourist rentals; and the excessive increase in housing prices, which has reached up to 30% in cities in the last four years. We therefore attended a true feast of speculation and great property. Even today, there's information in a half-Greek, the Vigo Lighthouse, which says real estate already wins in Galicia more than three times as much as the automobile and the naval together. It speaks of profits in 2017 of 3,450 million euros. So look at one thing, this is the crumbs of that party, because these real estates only carry a small part of the profits, which are going hand in hand full for big companies, investment companies and real estate speculation. This also has dramatic consequences in the form of suffering, in the form of despair and social exclusion. Caritas' recent report, the Foesa Report, tells us that residential exclusion affects 35% of the population of Galicia, far above the state average, which is 24%. We're talking about over 900,000 people in a situation of residential exclusion. And it also has a consequence of massive income extraction, of the income policy, of the working class, because the housing payment currently accounts for more than 40% of people's income, and this affects, above all, those who have less income. It is the one who is most detrimental to this rise in prices, this difficulty in entering the house. And on the weakest link in the prison, after the people who have precarious jobs, after the youth, of people under 35 years of age, who have a lot of difficulty in emancipating themselves, there are those thousands of people who are victims of defiance. We're talking, only in the first half of the year, about more than a thousand defeats in Galicia, about the dramatic consequences of this. And in the face of this drama we have a true paradox, which is that Galicia is the territory of the state, the nation of the state, where there is most empty housing. Up to 300,000 empty dwellings according to the 2011 statistics, which is the last known. And of those 300,000, 90,000 where there are more problems of access to housing, which are cities. A substantial part of these dwellings, especially those on the market, are in the hands of the speculators, of the Socimis, of the Bank and also of the Sareb. This doesn't happen by chance, this has a causality. There are causes and causes, and they are the governments of the Union and the State, which in the last ten years have abandoned public housing policies and turned into commercial speculation and this business the fault. The causes have to do with, for example, the legislative reforms adopted by the People's Party, essentially the Urban Rentals Act of 2013, which shot the rent price up. And also with the legislation on sociomis, which is absolutely obscene and scandalous. Initially approved by the Socialist Party in 2009, and then refined by the People's Party, it has been a factor that has increased speculation and price increases in recent years. If we talk about sociomis, we're talking about 70 companies with 2,200 million profits in 2018; and this is also part of it, because not all business is in these sociomis, but there are also other companies that are making money out of the housing business. These are companies, besides, which have very few workers, who do not pay taxes because they enjoy a system of tax exemption. Many of them have their headquarters in tax havens, but we have to say that, in fact, the Spanish State is a true tax haven for these companies. [[Applause]] And as this happens, we see that public investment in housing has fallen in the last ten years to minimal historical in the state and, especially, in Galicia, which is on the line of the state in these policies, and the levels of public housing protection are absolutely shallow, while more than 14,000 people registered in the IGVS as housing claimants. We also see that the rental aid is insufficient, with very restrictive barriers, they are very late and they take a long time to settle. Not to mention this shocking failure of the People's Party's Empty Housing Program that was going to be the great solution and was the big fiasco, with only 16 homes offered when they planned to put on the market 600. So we propose global actions, structural actions, starting with a massive public intervention to mobilize the empty housing and, above all, mobilize the empty housing that is in the hands of Sareb and the investment funds, to create a housing bag to address housing emergencies. We also propose in this PNL to develop a specific housing programme for rent, at limited prices, for young people and girls under 35 years of age; to create an extraordinary housing fund with EUR 100 million, to compensate precisely those over 200 million who have stopped investing in poor budget execution; to double the investment budget in public housing in the budgets of the Union in 2020; to increase the allocations for rent aid to meet demand; to prepare a report, through the Housing Observatory, on the number of empty housing in Galicia; and also to demand from the Government of the State measures such as the abolition of those rules that promote speculation, sociomis, and also the reversion — which is essential — of the reforms that have curtailed the social and labor rights of the working class. So this is a massive public intervention in the sector, understanding housing as social policy and not as commercial policy; a social policy serving people, most people, and not to the service of speculation, sociomis, voitre funds...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u253	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u254	...and the bank. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u255	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. Mr Rodríguez Estévez has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u256	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Today we are talking here, on this initiative, about housing. How much to do in our country in this ear!, as Mr. Bará said. As far as the evictions in Galicia are concerned, today is still one of the greatest social problems we have, this is a reality. That is why it seems to us no longer, but rather necessary, to create, as they propose here, a housing stock exchange designed to address situations of housing emergency for evictions and for groups with special difficulties in access to housing, as called for in this proposal not of law. The right to a decent housing, collected in the Constitution, is not met. We see that the housing policy of the Galician Union does not exist and has no faces to change. It has no vision of changing either to a social model, or to an accessible model, or to a quality model for the most disadvantaged classes. And then we met with the budgets, which we were still debating here yesterday. That's where you really see what interests the Greek Government the great problem we have in our country with housing. With these budgets, this constitutional right is no longer guaranteed to a decent housing, but the situation can still get worse, not by the budgets itself, but also by the execution of last year's accounts in September. By the end of November this year, as far as housing is concerned, the Council still had no more than twelve million euros to be executed. Another example of this is the fact that in 2017, in the Empty Housing Program, a star program of the Government of Greece to mobilize housing, only 3.2% of the 300,000 euros that the council itself had budgeted were executed. This year, on line 451A, Promoting the rehabilitation and quality of housing, the budget is 38.75 % lower than in 2009. Line 451B, Access to Housing, is 70% lower than in the 2009 budget. And lines like 451C, Direction and general housing services, directly deleted and no longer exists. On the other hand, they follow far away from what in absolute and relative terms meant housing budgets prior to the so-called crisis. If the Galician Union wants to remedy, once and for all, the serious problems we have with housing in our country, what it has to do is to promote, through the increase of promotion, the acquisition of real estate and rehabilitation, a real public housing park of social rent that allows us to accommodate the demand for existing and future protected housing, as called for in this initiative by the Nationalist Block Galego. In this initiative, we are also talking about creating a housing stock exchange designed to address emergency situations for groups with special difficulties in accessing housing and developing a specific housing programme with limited time limits for young people under 35 years of age. You see, on June 28th of last year, the Order of June 22nd was published in the DOG, which established the legal basis for aid to housing leases of the State Housing Plan 2018-2021. In that same order, a multi-annual call was called for 2018. The command included two help lines: line A and line B. Line A, helps rent for low-income population sectors. Line B was the rental aid directed to under 35 years of age. On July 24, this same year — a year later — the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo published the resolution with the beneficiaries and the people who were denied the same. The resolution contained the beneficiaries, but they only had access to the causes of the denial of the persons who were denied it through their personal file. What's that supposed to mean? This assumes that we don't know today how many people in total asked for this help, both in line A and in line B; how many people in total were granted and how many were denied it. What was the reason why the refused aid was not published for this access to housing? You tell us, I don't know, but something to be suspicious, the truth is, it does. We will support this initiative. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u257	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. On the part of the Left Joint Group, Mr. Sánchez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u258	Good afternoon. We're going to support this non-law proposition that talks about one of the most important issues for the Greeks and the Greeks in the working classes, for the majority of society, for youth, for women. We have come to insist very much that it is not a question where there is a failure because of the incompetence of the German Government or because of incapacity, but because it is a bet where one has to choose for one line or another. The right line proposed by the Galician Nationalist Block would have very, very positive effects, but also negative effects for some people. They would be negative to those who do business with housing, with speculation, because it would allow them to regulate prices, which is where public administrations can intervene more easily. Here they mix the precariousness of work, the precarious wages, with the rise in housing prices. So, where you can act more easily — we believe — more immediately, the Administration is in regulating the housing market, which is also a constitutional duty, because you really like that. And all this, this whole structural issue, has translation into concrete. Translation in the concrete one that needs to be remembered, so as not to forget what's going on out there. It translates into a series of policies adopted by the People's Party, both in the Government of the State and in the Council of Galicia, which in the Patina, in Chamber, houses of self-protection ended up in the hands of a Voitre fund. Voitre fund of a group managed by the son of Aznar and Mrs Botella, who was made with a housing that was partially covered with public money, sheltered housing, besides renting, where people with disabilities lived who had to adapt these homes and who, after 17 years of living in them, some will have to pick up the suitcases and go away, because even last week this Voitre fund sent letters to the houses, to two houses, announcing that the renewal of the contract would be accompanied by a 100-euro sub for rent of 200 euros. These voitre funds must remember — as Mr Bará has already said — that they have had adequate legislation to give them tax exemptions in order to encourage investment in rental housing in the Spanish State. I mean, it's votre funds that have tax benefits for doing this, for throwing people out of their homes. That's the top! That housing of self-protection ends up in the hands of voyeur funds that have had tax exemptions to do big business is the culmination and demonstration that here, who ruled, ruled to plunder and rob the people, to assault most of the people and against, besides, those who most need it. In particular, it also translates, for example, into the situation of a family in Vigo, the perceived Risga. A marriage with two daughters, one 7 and the other 13 years old, which is given as a housing alternative on the part of the Unity of Galicia a public housing in Vila de Cruces or that they seek in Salvaterra de Mine a housing, which there are cheaper renters. It's a real shame, a demonstration that in this country we don't even make the least of public housing policies. This is concrete, that's what's happening to dozens every day in this country, besides — without getting to such a dramatic defeat — that you have to pay 40% of the salary for housing or that you can't emancipate new people or have vital projects. So less Christmas politics and more give people work and housing so they can, if they want, have sons and daughters. But the People's Party doesn't want, doesn't want, it's with those who do business, it's like that. There was a bank rescue where the toxic assets were bought from the banks, which did not return. But it didn't make a housing bank for public rent, because it meant lower prices and that the friends of the People's Party did less business. And everything is summed up in that. The People's Party doesn't care about the situation of these people. He'd like them to be all right. Obviously. But if you have to choose, always choose against these people. All you care about is the possible electoral wear that causes you these cases. So that they can't be seen and they won't be on Galician television, you have enough. But even though you manipulate the public media to try to hide that reality, that's the reality that's happening in the cities of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u259	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! By the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia... Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! There are two ways of always bothering when you're talking here. One, which increpends what you're talking to, which is already the top. And another, that people talk to each other. When we have to talk to the guys, it's certainly a very interesting thing, but they can talk outside. And logically, if you rewrite what you're talking about, that's something else. So I ask you, please, to listen to who you're talking to, everyone! We said that Mrs Pierres López has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u260	Thank you, President. Today, BNG is presenting an initiative that raises more or less all the demands that we have seen in this House in the last three years. The truth is it seems like a recompilation, but in this case it is not of great success, but rather of the great failures of housing policy. I don't know if the Group of the People's Party realizes it, but as much as turning the record and as much promotion as they do, no one buys it. You yourselves have launched a radio campaign that speaks of the urbanism of the city as a melody, and you ask people who own buildings and housing to be like the harmonious notes of the landscape. And from our group we asked him: and those who don't have a home, what happens to them and them, what do you notice if they don't have a pentagram or a key to guide themselves? Because that's what today's debate is about, knowing what solution they are giving to about 14,300 families who have asked for access to a rental house at an affordable price. [[Applause]] What a solution it is to conquer that about 300,000 empty dwellings are mobilized and incorporated into the long-term rental market. And what a solution they make so that the young Greek can be emancipated. There are 4,000 applicants for rent aid, only among children under 35 years of age, and only 335 beneficiaries, only 8.25 % of the total! It's more like today, as the Joint Group spokesman pointed out, fifteen months after his publication, we're still waiting for the rental aid of Plan A, which meets all the profiles. Nearly 8,000 families are still awaiting this aid resolution, which, of course, feeds on this specific case of single funding from the State Housing Plan, without considering the Galician Union — as we have already pointed out to it on one occasion — to provide own funds to reach more people. Something that, by the way, if they did other autonomys. But we also wonder what solution does it make so that the current housing offer of 3,900 housing in the rental free market increases and allows you to collect all the demand, which is at least three times more. The truth is, to all these questions you always answer with the same canteen, and it's that "everything is going on." The problem is that the results, year after year, show us that what is going on is absolutely insufficient. Year 2017, 12 protected dwellings, both public and private. Year 2018, 8. Over the past five years, it has been found that there have been more than 620 dwellings which have not been carried out but which were contemplated in the budgets of Galician Union itself. And I would also like to recall that since April we had been betting from our group that of the 211 new newly created dwellings that had pointed out the advisor who was in progress, not even 10% would see the light this year; and I think we're not going very wrong, because in the first half of this year 2019, according to data from the Ministry of Development, there are only four new dwellings of protection, and none of them are public promotion. This is the result of the ineffectiveness of this Government, which is unable to take the rhythm that demands social needs in Galicia. A government that has to work from various areas to reverse, for example, the interests of owners and owners to opt for rent and not so much for the sale of their properties. And it's just that in Galicia last year, also according to data from the Ministry of Development, there were nearly 20,000 housing purchase transactions, and of that total, only 10%, exactly 1,981, were new housing. What does that mean? Well, the Germans and the Germans who own second-hand homes would rather sell them than rent them. And we also wonder why the Galego Vivenda Observatory doesn't work to facilitate new data, and not just to collect what the IGE or INE already collect. We have failed, in this sense, a greater involvement and ambition, which should be, in the end and after all, the priority end of the observatory. And on the demands of the Government in point 8, Mr Bará, I believe that the Socialist Party has already expressed in its agreement for the adoption of the 2018 budgets with the United Nations We can be ready to increase the burden for the benefit of the socimis and thus reduce their speculative impulse. We believe, therefore, that the next line should be better than the revision of legislation, not so much that of its total elimination. In any case — with regard also to labour reform — we do not understand the introduction of this point in this proposal. It seems to us that there are harmful aspects in it, of course, yes, and that it is also necessary to review, improve, and do so, in any case, by the hands of the unions. We don't think it's enough to reduce the issue here to a complete reversal, anyway. We therefore ask you to vote in points where this point 8 is excluded, which we believe cannot be supported by us in the manner in which it is presented here. For our own sake, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u261	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pierres. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, Mr. Castineira Broz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u262	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen of the progressive left, speaking today of speculators, a feast of vultures, etc., and not to mention the 7,000 dwellings that could have been made with the 680 million euros of the ERE, it has a crime! But, yes, we embrace, that's wonderful. [[Applause]] And come to accuse the others... what am I about? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What am I about? Of the 7,000 dwellings that could be done, which in Andalusia also have a lot of needs. But that's not... [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u263	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u264	...it doesn't go with the PSOE.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u265	I'm sorry. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u266	Don't worry, we're going to talk about housing, but relax. Relax.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u267	Quiet, quiet. Everybody, be quiet. Mr. Sánchez, be quiet, please. Silence! Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u268	That doesn't go with the PSOE. That doesn't go with PSOE, it's just because, really, ladies and gentlemen, now the Socialist Party has the only one that has... it's already changed its name, so it doesn't go with them, it's only P, because it's neither Spanish nor socialist, nor worker. [[Laughter]] They've only got the P of party left, nothing more. In half. That's what there is. [[Applause]] So you can't talk. We're negotiating and that's what we can't talk about. But we're going to talk about here, what you guys did, because that's what they did. Look, you're asking for the creation of a public promotion housing park. It already exists. They'll like it more or less. I too would like it to have been wider, and I am convinced that Galician Union too. But look at one thing, you... If you listen, you may learn something yourself, Mr. Sánchez. [[Murmurs.]] Even you, at best, learn something. You, when they ruled, left this Galician public housing park in less than 3,000 homes. Yes, minus three thousand homes, negative. More than 280 million euros that left their debts in the gestures, which had to be healed, because they were broken. Mr. David Rodríguez spoke here... I'm not surprised, because you just arrived and you have to understand that maybe you haven't analyzed the budgets and didn't know what was going on in 2009. But look, then, when I ruled the Bipartite, that is, the left ones, were selling between one and the other, from Xestur to Vivenda, from Vivenda to Xestur, and there was, by the way, an exclusive councillor from Vivenda, to leave everything to break. But they were totally inflated, so inflated budgets that they left the debt of 2,000 million euros that had to be paid to the state for ten years. I suppose you know that, because that socialist joy, that feast that was about the distribution of money, affected all administrations, even some municipalities. I don't know if Manzaneda's has anything to do with it; something may have touched him. That's what there was. So you have to know where you're leaving to see where you're coming from, and at this moment that public housing park has more than 3,600 homes for rent. Of course, because the Bipartite's policy — part of the occupation policy, which is very good, the housing policy is the occupation — was: we build a public promotion housing building and sell it, and with what we call it, we do another. But they didn't stay on property and rent, and so it happened to the Patinho. Because Patina, initially, was a private official protection dwelling; it was not a public promotion, it was never a public promotion. It was official private protection and you finished your protection, Mr. Sánchez, and you know it. It's over. He has his 20-25-year term, spent as long as he was established in order that he so decreed, and so he had the help, and therefore he was no longer of official protection what was sold. The owners sold that building as a dwelling... yes sir, because the law is so, and we like to comply with the law. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And you've already explained it to yourself... yes, if we like to comply with the law. You have already explained it to yourself the director of the [...] commission, but what happens is that it is much better to fallacy and to follow. Look, what is clear is that the budgets of the Board, which were dealt with yesterday in this plenary room even if they envisage an important increase, both for rehabilitation and for new housing - more than 40% for the new housing of public promotion - as well as for rentals. The rental aid amounts to 17%, and for the social lease bonus more than 32%. We're talking about what almost everything you're proposing here is already there. There's a bag. We can ask you to enlarge it, modify it, improve it, what you want, but it's not to be accepted that you're asking to create a public housing park for rent because there's already 3,600 homes now, something more than 3,600.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u269	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u270	Creating a housing stock exchange to address housing emergencies, exists. You yourself, Mr. Sánchez, recognized that you were offered a residence in another county. Yes, but it exists, and curiously applauds the policies of the Vigo Town Hall, which sold the homes it had; some in Rosalía de Castro and others that had been made through agreements with the Galician Union. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u271	Thank you very much, Mr. Castineira. You have the floor, for the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr Bará Torres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u272	Mr. Castineira, to be the PSOE a toxic and corrupt party, you lose your ass to deal with the PSOE. They're crying every day to deal with the PSOE because Spain needs to be saved. In any case, you know a lot about all that, too, so maybe they say that. [[Protests.]] Mrs Pierres, speaking of the policies of the PSOE of the Government of the State, our proposal includes the elimination of legislation that favours speculation and rewards tax subsidies and with that policy, so we want to eliminate sociomis. How we also want to reverse labour reforms. Because they do have a lot to do with housing policy, because what they did was to impoverish the working class with the loss of rights and the loss of income, and that's why that performance is essential too. Look, the People's Party has a very bad conscience because at the bottom they know they're the main ones responsible for this situation. You come here to tell me that there are all those policies, and the reality is that the situation is disastrous. I made a description and I think everyone shares it; it's data, in addition, that all operators are giving it. Your policies have failed, and that's why you're responsible. He also failed the German Housing Plan, not to mention the Empty Housing Plan, I told him. Because you're what you're doing is gallery measures, propaganda measures, palliative measures, measures you've called our "homeopathic" partner very well yesterday. Sure, that's what happens! But let me tell you here that we propose the same thing that exists, it is that we are taking our hair! because what we propose, rightly, is an action by massive public investment to mobilize empty dwellings, not for what already exists, which is clearly insufficient. We're talking about mobilizing about 20,000 homes, which are houses in the hands of the bank, in the hands of Sareb, or in the hands of those speculative funds. We propose, for example, measures that can be taken, such as making a law that obliges Sareb to make available to that public park a substantial part of its housing. Not those crumbs that I hand over to Junta, 50 homes, that many of them don't meet the minimum living standards. That's why I think it's clear the difference between what we propose, which is a social housing policy, and what the People's Party puts on, which is a commercial policy that favors speculation, which favors sociomis, that favors the bank and favors those who are squeezing people, doing business on account of people's suffering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u273	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. Let's move on to the next initiative. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the situation and future of the shipyard Barreras, de Vigo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u274	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u275	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u276	Thank you, Mr. President. The advertising and propaganda policy of these ten years of Mr.Núñez Feijóo's government has one of his most illustrative examples with the Pemex case and the Vigous shipyard Sons of J. Barreras. All the Greeks are perfectly reminded of the prime time disconnection of public television so that President Feijóo had presented the Mexican company Pemex, at one time, in addition, where the unemployment rate was very high in the most industrialized regions of our country. In the spring of 2012 President Feijóo returned from a trip to Mexico with President Mariano Rajoy and advanced a historic opportunity for the Welsh naval sector - both for the private in Vigo and for the public in Ferrol - from the hands of the Mexican company Pemex. At the end of 2012 — a few weeks from the autonomous elections — President Núñez Feijóo, bordering the electoral law, solemnized in Raxoi's palace the charge of two fleets of Pemex for the Greek shipyards; an agreement with the signature and television broadcast live, formalizing a "strategic alliance", in the words of the president of the Galician Union himself, who also defined as one of the best economic and employment news of recent times. And he said these contracts are backed not only financially but also by conviction and realism. President Feijóo's story, adapted by the inseparable advertising and propaganda policy, announced the construction of ships, a logistic basis for the distribution of Pemex hydrocarbons for Europe in the port of tipto Langosteira, two fleets, three tank ships, a tuna tanker, a ship supporting oil platforms, a hotel ship, the renewal of part of the fleet, two chemists and several tugmen. Anyway, two fleets. In 2013, in another precampa, Pemex announced the entry into the capital of Barreras with control of 51% of the shareholdership, in order to continue with that strategic alliance that the Galician Union pushed with the oil tanker. Thus, a capital expansion of EUR 5.1 million was made, which was launched completely by Pemex, to save the company from the bad situation it was suffering, which enabled Mexicans to access the naval technology of the Galician company to start building. The crusader of reality, unfortunately, ended up imposing itself, and although Pemex announced the construction of a third fleet in September 2015 on the shipyards of Barreras, in November 2016 it already stated that that ship would not be built and that it would paralyze the future and still not started logistics base at the point of Langosteira, in the Coruña. In front of the tales of Feijóo, we met the crusader reality: two fleets built was the only result of the gigantic advertising and propaganda operation of the Board of Galicia, the Cerro de la Pez, built in Navantia - the Board spoke of 2,000 jobs for the region with this charge, being the maximum 500 jobs at full yield; it was the only charge in Ferrolterra of that strategic alliance - and the Pemex Reform, which was built in Barreras. Seven years after those ads, the Pemex story is over. Pemex decides to abandon Barriers and leave Galicia, after many projects announced by Feijóo, and only two fleets. Thus, the largest shipyard in Spain in capacity and in workload applied last month for creditors' pre-competition after the removal of its directive dome, setting a temporary negotiating framework and narrowing the margins of manoeuvre. The Mexican state oil tanker considers the shipyard to be a non-strategic asset and tries to reduce its highest debt. Everything seems to indicate that Mexico wants to hastily withdraw the capital of Barreras by order of the new government of López Obrador. For our country, however, Sons of J. Barreras is indeed a strategic asset by size, by the current workload, by the hundreds of direct, indirect jobs and by the auxiliary company, and because he currently has a portfolio of orders of more than 900 million euros, his largest workload in a decade. But today there are many problems. The yard has strong tensions in its treasury, a deficit structure of capital, and the shareholding on the foot of war. They face over-millionaires on the three ships they already have in construction, out of the five that are formally hired. Last week there was a meeting in the Ministry of Industry with all the parties involved — the Central Government, Junta, Pymar and Cesce with Pemex — in search of a solution and an exit to this creditor contest. The Councillor for Economics, Employment and Industry, Mr. Conde, was on board. It discussed the company's shareholding position. So it was obvious that Pemex wanted to sell his shares, 51% of the company's total, or, if not, go to liquidation. Pemex is willing to collaborate to resolve this chaos. Pemex's managers who entered the yard by the hand of Nuñez Feijóo are persecuted for corruption. The shipowner is interested in staying with the yard, but he wants José García Costas, who has 24.5% of the shareholdership, who has a right of preference and who has a right to accompany. And you want to draw out this creditor contest until the shareholder conflict is resolved. At that meeting there was a principle of agreement for Entrepreneur García Costas to withdraw from his shareholding and was entrusted to the Council of Galicia an important part in this negotiation. Today's news in the newspapers tells us that now José García Costas wants to acquire all the capital with the help of external partners, for what needs the visa and pleasure of The Ritz-Carlton. We'd like to know if the Economic Councilman has fulfilled his commitments, with the commitments made at that meeting, and what is the position of the Galician Council regarding the shareholders of the company. Well, today we bring a non-legislative proposal quite minimal in which we urge the Galician Union, first of all, to make a detailed report on the public funds of the Galician Union received by the J. Barreras Government, especially its majority shareholder Pemex, for its investments in Galician, both for the shipbuilding and for the acquisition of the Barreras shipyard, in case they have received them, and the control mechanisms put in place by the Autonomic Administration in relation to the funds provided to these business operations; to make a report on the possible negative impact that will result in the exit of the Pemex oil tanker from the Barreras shipyard and in relation to its subsidiaries; and, thirdly, to open a work table between the J. Barreras company, its creditors and the Galician Union to try to reach an agreement before the deadline of the pre-accreditors; and to seek the viability that allows. In this first part, on my part, nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u277	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. You have the floor, on behalf of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará Torres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u278	I'm going to give some of my intervention time to a person who sent us an email a few days ago, who says, "Mr. Conde, my husband has a company that is among the Barriers' auxiliaries. Please help us, it's liquidity-free, with a lot of debts and expenses due to the credit lines we had to work for Barriers and that the shipyard left without paying. Please help us, we're about to break up. There's nothing from the shipyard. We went to the Igape thinking that they would help us economically, but not. Please give us a solution, we don't have time. It is not understood that, apart from not controlling the payment times of the shipyard, there is no solution so that assistants who are simply involved in doing their work can charge somewhere to move forward. In view of the fact that the ship yard conflict was not resolved within a short period of time, the Board should have authorized some amount of money so that the assistants could collect, move on with their activity and not be thrown into bankruptcy." This is the dramatic reality that people who work in Barriers are going through, and also for auxiliary companies -- small businesses that have as a whole more than 1,000 jobs awaiting a thread. And also a few days ago, the company Pemex announced the following: "Our adventure in Barreras is over." An adventure, by the way, sponsored by Alberto Núñez Fexóo, that much more than an adventure was a history of corruption; corruption I don't know if of Miami, but, yes, corruption in Pemex, with the well-known photos of those dangerous relationships and friendships of the president of the board with directors of that company who are being persecuted by Mexican justice accused of corruption. But in 2002 it was something else, they were days of wine and roses, indeed, of live connections of the — we know it is impartial — TV Galega to participate in Mr Fexóo's election campaign and to announce this strategic operation of Pemex as a salvation table of the Greek naval. More than a saving table was, so now seen, a stone to the neck. And there are responsibilities throughout this very clear and very obvious process of the Galician Union, which has been avalista, which has sponsored this operation, which has given its support to adventurous and irresponsible entrepreneurs — of course, very directly linked to the People's Party — that has allowed the decapitalization of strategic companies of the Welsh naval industry and that is now also, in some ways, allowing the possible entry of Voitre funds, of investment funds, which we already know how they act: reducing costs and then selling the company to other investors, making the most of them. We're in the discount time because next week, November 26, ends the deadline to save Barreras; and we're therefore competing for a real match ball. We already know what happened recently with Vulcan, after making long, after making excuses and then deceiving the workers. We have the boat on the rocks, with shared responsibilities and also very direct - as I say - of the board of Galicia. 200 jobs are at stake in Barreras, but also the more than 1,000 jobs in those 30 auxiliary companies that we put here as a dramatic example in the voice of one of the people who own that company. That's why we want solutions, we want a quick, effective and powerful intervention from the Galician Union that goes beyond the proposals that the Socialist Party calls for. We agree to do those studies and those reports, and we agree to create that working group in which we understand that there must be, yes or yes, auxiliary companies as well. But we ask for more, we also ask that public intervention be studied in Barreras, capitalizing all that public investment that has been made over the years for the creation of a mixed capital naval business group in the Vigo River, which is really the bet that must be done at this time to relaunch and save the sector; not only Barreras, but also auxiliary companies, and that ship repair center project. And we also call on the Naval Recruitment Bureau to look for future solutions and analyze the deterioration that is also taking place — and we need to talk about it — about the working conditions and the loss of jobs...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u279	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u280	...in the sector. It's therefore about saving Barriers, and that's why we have to move on to action by the Galician Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u281	Thank you very much, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u282	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u283	Mr Casal Vidal has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u284	We see once again that the rabbits of Mr. Feijóo's joke come out. That's a lot worse than Mrs. Esperanza Aguirre's, one after the other. So you're inventing now towards the next election, to see what the new rabbit is, because, for a lot of cover and a lot of news, it's going to be that people are going to see the trick this time. This rabbit of Barreras and Pemex was worth two election calls, and we'll see how the matter ends. They don't keep taking the flag of the 900 million euros of workload from this yard, because, as much as the rest is the contract with Ritz-Carlton, with a low fear of more than 40%, because we're doing well. So if you're thinking of supporting Mr. García Costas in this new strategy that seems to be going through these days, look deeply at the situation of that workload so that you don't have another surprise. And, above all, the interest of our intervention - because we fully agree with all that has been expressed so far - is that it does not fall again the weight of this new crisis on auxiliary companies, which really support shipbuilding in Vigo. Another blow like those prior to these companies could lead to the drag to the whole sector. So don't get profiled again in an industrial crisis and act to find a solution to Barriers, which can go through many ways. It might be what the spokesperson for the Galician Nationalist Block has just proposed, a direct intervention in collaboration with the state. Look at what Mr Macron did year and a half ago in France, as he intervened in the yards, as he reflected them and as he then brought them back into the market. They don't dismiss that kind of possibility so that the situation doesn't end like that of Vulcan. And, above all, as I said, they protect the weakest, the auxiliary companies and their workers, who, as you know, with this new system of these new yards that call design, really 80% of the work is done by auxiliary companies and it's really the workers of the auxiliary companies that build mostly ships. They pay attention to what the auxiliary companies are proposing -- so En Marea has proposed it as an amendment in these budgets; to see if in the partial amendments at least they approve it, since in the amendments to the whole of it they have discarded it -- they start the studies and start the work to develop a repair base in the Vigo River. All the indicators show that in the Atlantic, there is a lot of demand for repair work. The shipyards who do this have a workload that they can't even meet, and the ships are going to the Mediterranean. It is an opportunity that should not be allowed to pass, to establish the studies, the initiation and development of that naval repair base in the Vigo River. It's an alternative to any crisis situation like this that we're talking about, and a possible alternative to Vulcan installations, for example. On this line, I also think it would be very advisable for the People's Group and the Ladies of the People's Group to speak with Mr. López Veiga. It is not understood that this haste has now come to them from withdrawing the administrative concession of these lands to see if other initiatives such as this are possible. In fact, we are surprised to see that in some things it takes months or years to act and, on the other hand, this concession seems to want to be taken off deliberately. Unless there's any hidden intention, we seem to be very irresponsible. Let's hope the People's Group urges Mr. President of the Port of Vigo to take it more calmly and wait to see if there's a possible solution. Thank you. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u285	Thank you very much, Mr. Casal. For the Joint Left Group, Mrs. Chao Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u286	Thank you, President. First of all, from the Joint Left Group we want to send our support to the workers and families of the Barreras workers, who come to spend the days with concern, without seeing a clear solution on the table and with their jobs in the air. They even went out on the street today to defend their future. They also complain about the Government's lack of information and want to be given some clue, some certainty, about what's going to happen. I also want to say that since the Joint Left Group we are going to support this Socialist Group initiative, once we have addressed a concern we have expressed in this Parliament on numerous occasions: the situation that is currently going through the naval sector. After propaganda, after announcements of ghost ships that never arrived, the harsh reality of dismissal and closures is imposed. We have seen with regret how Vulcan was closed without having done absolutely nothing from the Government and hoped, finally, to support the offer that is now on the table. And finally came to the Barreras papers, again. Now we don't live a news break to contact Raxoi's palace live and make a great announcement, no; now the news will be more worrisome. He went from surprise to nervousness, to worry about what was going on in the vigue yard. It was a new setback to the supposed recovery of the naval sector linked to Pemex that began a month ago with the news that Barreras was entering the creditors' foreclosure. We remember very well -- the ones who preceded me here -- as over seven years ago the TVG news agency interrupted its programming to tell us that Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo had been able to rescue the naval sector by signing that deal with Pemex. From what happened later we all remember: the outer port, the control of Barreras... a sum and followed by disincentives of the hand of great friends of the People's Party. The end we already know: the great friends of the People's Party, those who do photographs, like Mr. García Costas. Then they ask themselves for them directly and they don't wake up, they don't know who these people are. Mr. Feijóo could no longer answer when he was directly questioned on this matter; he no longer knows who this gentleman was who led the Barriers to an unsustainable situation. It was the first piece that moved in the face of the major crisis that the yard has, and now there's a rescue operation on which, as I said, we have very little information. The consequences of all this are already being seen. On the street are already more than a thousand people from the auxiliary barrier industry for whom there was no solution, and for them the measures announced in full campaign, two days before the elections, by Mr. Feijóo, come late. By not saying that the least we should ask is that when we put together help to intervene at a time of crisis in the sector we talk directly to the sector. And as small businesses report, which are the ones most affected by the lack of Barreras payments, this didn't happen. We have to act while we're in time, and time is running out. There are less than two weeks left to avoid the competition and therefore we hope that once again the Government of Greece will put an end to its inaction in the industrial sector. He has full competence in the industrial sector, and he's leading to the death of a fundamental sector of the Greek economy, and even more of the vigue industry. We have said it here other times, we don't know what it means to have strategic sector consideration, as in the official documents of the Galician Union has the naval sector, when this does not translate into concrete measures of any kind. This is not resolved by only marking Pemex, it is true; they are responsible, but in the People's Party they are responsible for having, first, privatised at its moment Barreras and, secondly, for having totally linked the future of Barreras to that company. So coherence and responsibility. If they were very happy with Pemex's ads, they now assume the consequences. The lack of commitment by the Government of the People's Party to the industrial sector has destroyed more than 22,500 industrial jobs. We can't stand any more dismissal. That is why, as I said, we are going to support this initiative, even though we are asking for an amendment to add in your voice that should be considered by the Socialist Group, in which we ask the German Government to commit itself to the continuity of the Barriers yard as well as to its jobs and working conditions. A further point on the linkage of public aid and the conditions for the maintenance of jobs, working conditions and business continuity. We've said it many times, we're concerned that when we give public help, this has no commitment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u287	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u288	And one last point — set up — to urgently set up the Naval Sectoral Bureau with shipyards, auxiliary industry and trade unions to address the solution. That's exactly what the company is asking for...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u289	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u290	...the employees of the company. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u291	Thank you very much, Mrs Chao. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Egerique Mosquera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u292	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. The truth is that it is a pity to listen to them, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, and listen to this GNP, which, on a proposal not of law, has nothing, rather is an absolute depurpose, as is the situation and as are the workers, because really the importance of the shipbuilding sector is the workers. Mr Bará, a line of help has already been published in the DOG -- I don't know if you've seen it -- of 18 million euros for assistants, for auxiliary companies, so this will also give peace to those companies that have always been supported by the Galician Council. On November 25, Igape will meet with the Barreras Committee, in case you're interested in it and you're not up to date with the information. Because we're also talking about a table and a meeting between Cesce, Pymar, the Ministry, Together and Ritz-Carlton. They are now gathered in Madrid, precisely now, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, in case you don't have that information either. I'd say this is a true disincentive, with judgments of value, with subjectivity... here's an interpellation to the Galician Union, but there's no solution. What do you propose to Barreras? What do you propose for the naval sector? Because here, not a proposal. We have opportunism here, we have criticisms, and there is no collaboration or solutions, because it really is true that there is a small chronology and a history of the shipyard Barreras. You come here to chat and criticize everything that Joina does, but you have to know exactly what happened. They know it well. So where are the alternatives? Because they ask investors for the yards and then, when they propose investors, they're not worth it. They were always against it. This Union of Galicia, this President Feijóo has never found help and support from the opposition to bring the naval sector forward, from which he has never separated and to which he has always been supporting. Look, you're not worth Mexico or Mexico's money to invest, they prefer Panama, because they have a former manager, who is currently a conceler and mayor's lieutenant in Vigo, who knows a lot about the sector and who instead of bringing the money to Galicia takes the money to Panama. Don't you ask Mrs. Elena Espinosa for an explanation? Sure, sure. [[Murmurs.]] And besides, they don't ask the gentlemen of En Marea, the lords of Podemo, that kind of Andalusian caste who has just been convicted of carrying so much money from the ERE, which has affected, in addition, the jobs of many Andalusian women. [[Applause]] It must have affected that too. No, we're not talking about anything here today. So, they come here to do an interpellation to the Galician Council, but the resolution, the proposals you put in the PNL and the points they request have nothing to do with solving the yard problem. They ask for a report on the possible negative impact they may have. But are you serious? A report on the possible negative impact? We're going to pull the yard forward, we're going to positive impacts, to help, not to be accumulating or destructive. The Socialist Party with the naval sector has always been oppressive and destructive. We're here to find solutions, to face it, because, besides, there's nothing to hide. From the People's Party and from the Galician Union we have nothing to hide on the theme of the barrier yard. Look, this group, the Union itself, we're about to fix the situation, as we've already done, there's nothing to hide, as I say. And I'm also going to make a little chronology because we're starting from the situation in which the tax reads -- that knife of the socialist Almunia also to the private yards; in 2012 there were the completely empty steps by that knife that put the Socialist Party directly to the yards -- this year Junta looked for solutions, in December 2013. If it is true that, despite his permanent criticisms and all the bold predictions against the naval - never supporting the naval, always against the naval, I insist, in Vigo; and Mr. Gonzalo Caballero must know well, which is from there, and Mr. Abel Losada, who is not, also knows very well the subject -, Pemex at that time, through SMEs, bought 51% of the Visian shipyard. Yes, that was pure oxygen for the naval sector, for hundreds of families, for thousands of beams; pure oxygen in 2013 thanks to the replanting of Barriers' Sons. That was a job he did to the Galician Union; therefore, we have nothing to hide. Six years have passed and today we're talking about a serious management problem, but, as I said, Junta is and has always been to support auxiliary companies and yards themselves. I'd like to remember that from 2013 until today, the shipyards have been on a permanent workload, and this joint is working, and it's probably going to pull that yard out again to continue with the contracts. There's nothing to say about this? There's nothing to say? It is permanent and constant criticism. And they've been working on the yards for six years -- I insist -- thanks to that operation. The Union has not moved, it won't move me from where it is and it has nothing to hide. You're only here to destroy. It's just that this is an absolute intent of PNL! I insist that they provide no solution, they give no half a solution. They want "public funds" to be reported — I put quotes because you say so — "received by Barriers." Sky! Sky! She was granted a participative loan in 2017 of 2.5 million euros that is already cancelled, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u293	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u294	The help you must know, as I say, is directed at the assistants. Look, we can talk about the avalanches you left in the Bipartite, the 30 million Alfageme, the debts we're still paying for your irresponsibility...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u295	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u296	We can talk about that. I'm done, president. Just one thing, about the control mechanisms applied by XesGalice, with total transparency, submitted to the Board of Auditors, which conducts the external financial audit...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u297	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u298	...we have no problem in debate, but here you don't bring a PNL or bring a solution; you bring an interpellation, and today you have to talk about corruption in your party. The biggest theft of public money in democracy: the ERE of Andalusia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u299	Thank you very much. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u300	Give them a round of applause, give them a round of [[Laughter]] Look, we're totally committed... [[Applause]] Thank you, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u301	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u302	We are fully committed to Barriers and their continuity, being a matter of silence enough to devote all the time and effort to him. But the truth is, like each of the Members and Members of the People's Party who came out here today spoke of the ERE, I'm going to tell you one thing. Look, Mrs. Egerique, it's true that to talk about corruption, the People's Party is the most experienced party. It's the most experienced party to talk about this! Look, we, from the Socialist Party... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u303	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u304	...we condemn all kinds of corruption, but there's a big difference in the ERE, public resources are illegally used, but there's no whitening, no illegal financing, no enrichment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u305	Silence! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u306	...for the cases...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u307	Excuse me a moment, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u308	Don't be angry, it's true.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u309	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u310	If you bother them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u311	Everyone here has their turn and they have to listen, listen and talk when one touches them, and if they don't touch, they don't talk. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u312	Continue? Good. For whitening, for illegal financing and for illegal enrichment you have many cases, starting with the Gürtell - the People's Party condemned for corruption -, Matas, Aguirre, Ignatius - how many more do you want? How much more do you want? [[Applause]] That's illegal enrichment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u313	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u314	Illegal enrichment! Don't you like it? But it's reality. You, Mrs. Egerique, tell us that we are presenting an LNP...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u315	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u316	Mr. Tellado, do you mind my statements? Do you mind?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u317	Silence, Mr. Tellado!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u318	The shame you have to have for Gürtell, you have to have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u319	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u320	...the only political party condemned for corruption, the only political party condemned for corruption!, they like it or they don't like it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u321	Silence! Mr. Tellado, silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u322	Back to Barreras. Mrs. Egerique, if you don't like my PNL - well, our PNL - why don't you make an amendment? Because, at best, we accept her. Show your concern for Barreras by presenting an amendment, or by bringing in a PNL. So let's see, don't you come here to criticize the initiatives that we bring to the rest of the parliamentary groups, which we have the right to bring what we consider appropriate, of course, and the People's Party will not mark our agenda. Look, Mrs. Egerique, if we go to industry data, during these ten years of Mr. Feijóo's government, what we certainly have is that we lost more than 97,000 people, who lost more than 24,000,000 people under 40 years of age - more than 24,000,000 people! - that the number of companies in Galicia decreases, that in 2016 there were 4,571 companies and in 2018 there were 509 companies less; that the activity in Galicia of industrial companies based in other autonomous communities increased from 2016 to 2017, 1.4 points to the net amount of the turnover, while the activity...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u323	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u324	...in other autonomous communities of industrial enterprises based in Galicia has decreased by 1.2 points in the net amount of the business figure...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u325	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u326	...for the same period; that in the industrial production index, the average year is that Galicia is the fourth autonomous community, with the worst evolution of all...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u327	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u328	...with an annual rate of -5,6...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u329	Sorry! The Block Amendment, please...?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u330	...while for the state set it's positive at 0.7%.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u331	Thank you very much. Do you accept the amendment to the Block? That's what's left of us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u332	From the amendment of the Block we accept the first amendment of addition. In the second one, in the points that are going to be 4 and 5, we accept point 5, and in point 4 we would add our point number 3, putting a comma and putting "not discarding any of the possible solutions", or "some possible solution."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u333	I ask them to write it, please, if not, we're going to be wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u334	Yes. And in the case of the amendment that you presented in your voice the group...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u335	There are no amendments in you, another thing is that in your own transaction with the Block you do what you have to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u336	Yes, we have. All right, we'll take it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u337	Yes, what do you want the word for, Mrs. Vilán?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u338	Without any intention of the full being any more obscure than it was yesterday and today, I'd like them to withdraw or not repeat the expressions concerning a person who is not in this House, that if you stop doing it, I don't know what illegal activity in Panama -- which is not true -- and that they are only based on what says a period, good two, which is OKdiary. If there is anyone in the People's Party who considers that to be so, I have as easy, first, as not to scream, which is fundamental for this life to understand, and second, to go to the Prosecutor's Office or go to the guard trial directly and file a complaint. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u339	Mrs. Vilán, to stop the debate from being blunter, if we apply that backwards, in the last few minutes, I don't know what would happen to the minutes, because it would be impossible to do it on everyone's part. There was no bad word said here about no one, nor was it lacking in respect to anyone. It was said that one person had, as the media are publishing, certain activities or certain companies elsewhere. Point. That's no contempt for anything. No, no; it's not unbelievable, it's true. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Let's move on. Silence! It's already clear. There's no need for further clarification. It's done now. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's clear. They're going to have a positioning now. That's it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's already clear, Mrs. Prado. Thank you for your help. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government and the actions to be carried out in relation to sexual violence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u340	This initiative has been amended by the Joint Parliamentary Group, the People's Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u341	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Presas Berganginos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u342	Thank you, Mr. President. To see if sexual violence awakens as many passions as the naval because, unfortunately, while the naval is beginning to be almost an extinct experience in our country, sexual violence, quite the contrary. Anyway... Ladies and gentlemen, if there's a debate that feminism and women's movements have been able to put in the public lecture over the past few years and also in society itself, through the mobilizations and collective awareness that we're witnessing in recent years, that's sexual violence and consent. Moves like the international Me Too, or like the version I believe you, that we live in this country, have shown the need to name and mark one of the deepest and strongest violence that women live in patriarchal society. And the social response also unprecedented to events like those we had to live on the thread of the Pamplona Manada case marked one before and one after in social awareness and they should have also marked one before and one after in the response since the institutions. But unfortunately, they're failing. I invite your lords to stop for a moment to think. These days it is true that we are all talking again about the case of this Manada I mentioned because another attack on this panda of patriarchal sons is being judged. We were all outraged again a few weeks ago because Spanish patriarchal justice again meant, to the manada de manresa's thread, which was not a violation. But it must be remembered that all of this has begun many years ago, we have had the first mobilizations for these events in 2016. So we have to ask ourselves, where are we three years later? Have we taken enough steps? For we think that society has advanced more than institutional response has advanced. And that should bring out the colors all over the world, but especially those who rule, and in fact this morning we had a specific debate on the issue of male violence and we saw that the Government was bringing zero new proposals on sexual violence, so we brought this initiative, because we understand that it is a priority and that there are many issues that we could make. First of all, we insist once again that it is necessary to conceptualize, define and speak clearly. Male violence against women is a first-order problem that represents a genuine genocide. So we say again that we do not accept that there are political forces in this state that deny their existence. [[Applause]] Sexual violence is, moreover, without any doubt and internationally recognized, masculine violence and the World Health Organization itself defines sexual violence as those acts against the will of people, regardless of their relationship with the victim in any area. I'd like to think that even here we all agree. It is hard to believe it, seeing what is sometimes heard in this House, and I will no longer refer to the pacts with these openly fascist organizations, but we also see authorized spokesmen of the People's Party at the state level who question that "it is not." We therefore continue to be concerned about this issue. The truth is that these basic premises are not yet fulfilled in the Spanish State today. We denounced this today in the morning, and we insist on this initiative: today the Istanbul Pact is not fulfilled, the aforementioned state pact is not fulfilled. This is a shared responsibility by all the political forces that have ruled in the State since 2011, which was when the Istanbul Convention was enacted, even though some gentlemen like Mr. Rajoy took years to transpose it into state law. In any case, this is a problem for the Greek women. Today we are proposing that we also ask the State to correct itself: firstly, to demand, within the legal classification of the framework on consent, that the typification be improved and that the consideration of these crimes be improved as well as of a public nature, so that, if there are cases like these orders, the legal process can continue independently of the victim and that it can be publicly denounced as well. Secondly, it also changes, as we discussed in the morning, that definition of macho violence, so that it is clear that sexual violence is malevolence, and also that it does not negatively impact many aspects that affect us by the Greek women. Because we talk a lot about justice and it's a very important area, but the fact is that this denial of assuming it within the sphere of the state impacts on other aspects, such as the media itself, and that has negative repercussions. We also propose once again that these crimes be dealt with within the specific trials of masculine violence. That would also make it easier to have a greater workload and to end those excuses that deny that right we should already have in our country. But we also bring proposals to improve in the Italian field, because we can and must do a lot more. This same week, new data on sexual violence were published in the memory of the Prosecutor's Office in 2018, confirming a growing trend. They've increased complaints of sexual assault by more than 12% and sexual abuse by more than 40%. That is also the conclusion if we look at the criminal balance of the ministry itself and compare the first half of this year with the first half of the previous year. If we look at other areas such as the state survey on sexual violence itself, we see worrying data about, for example, that almost 40% of the people surveyed between 16 and 24 years - almost 40% - claim to know a victim of sexual assault. That means that we have a huge problem and that this problem remains and grows in youth, and that cannot be answered, gentlemen of the People's Party, exclusively with this very limited programme of Love you more than 50 educational centers in our country, deserves much more attention. We understand that there is a need to educate in consent, to focus more on this aspect and to influence pornography to stop being the main source of education in this country's youth. We have alarming data from our own country as well. The Coruña Deputy, in the program of Delete Control, which always does a previous study, estimates that 18% of the women surveyed - our country's children, children from a very limited geographic area - claim to have been touched, abused, without consent. That gives us an idea of the seriousness of what we're talking about, and we have to put firm measures on it, because the fact is that socially still the culture of rape is naturalized. I'm going to set an example that is frankly disgusting. Today we saw how anyone who could consult our social networks would see how we lived in a state where a television show that consists of recording a closed fence 24 hours a day not only consented to rape a woman, not only consented to this, but today we knew how it was revitalized, forced to see, without psychological attention, its own rape and how that is being viralized and popularized. That's the education that the children of this country receive, that's the education, and we have to intervene, because we can't afford to live in such a loathsome society. We therefore propose measures for education. First, let an ambitious study be done to diagnose where prejudices are, where we have to address them, which involves the educational community, and that specific workshops be made, not only equality plans and courses in few centres, but specific workshops and ambitiously. And that also involves the teacher, because it is not enough to allocate 250,000 euros, as is the case in these 2020 budgets, for something so enormous, while for other programmes - as has already been said in the debate in the morning - 1.5 million euros are allocated. We must go to more structural measures, which have budget, which have monitoring and which are periodically evaluated. On the other hand, we also insist on a battery of measures to improve the care chain for victims of sexual assaults to guarantee their rights, because we sincerely believe that we are failing there. There we are failing, and how proud we are that our law says that sexual violence is malevolence, we have to ask ourselves what happens later when protocols are activated, whether or not they work. We therefore propose that this interinstitutional protocol be evaluated in less than three months to see whether it actually works for sexual violence. We also propose a work table to see what's going on, because it's true that complaints increase, yes, but there are also issues that must be ignored by alerts: for example, the number of violations theoretically low in that criminality balance. And can anyone think that you've lowered the number of rapes in this country that you're falling with and with other indicators? We must ask ourselves why women, if they are raped, do not report. The General Council of the Judiciary itself estimates that only about 20% are those who are known publicly, and the attention is not just the complaint. We can help many women without the only possible route being the judge. In any case, we must ensure that attendance is free. The theory of our law says it's so, but what people in the judicial system tell us is that there really isn't in all the apparatus, in all the prison, a consciousness that this is so, and there are women who don't report because they don't have that advice. We also propose specific training programmes and a substantial increase in budgets. I'm done. A few months ago, the editorial Captain swing published in Spanish a book by American journalist Roxane Gay where he collected texts from multiple rapes of all kinds, of all kinds, of all circumstances, of all social stratum, and he called it It's not for that. Precisely because if it were for so much, because only there was a sexual assault in this country would be for so much, we have to speak seriously, with proposals, with alternatives, and that's what the BNG is proposing today. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u343	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Verao has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u344	It begins by pointing out that, in fact, the feminist movement has been the one who has put in the last few years the need to specifically address sexual violence as a problem of first order, and also insisting on that character of domination. Sexual violence most of the time has nothing to do with sex, it has to do with domination, and this is particularly about group rape, which, as scientific studies have shown, has to do with patriarchal domination and culture. Then, the law of Greece, indeed, was before the state in the specific recognition of this type of violence as a gender-based violence, as a violence exercised against women by the fact that it was. The Istanbul Convention recognizes this, but these crimes still need to be properly defined, by introducing consent into legislation. As for the competences of the autonomous community, there are no campaigns against harassment in leisure programs, nor the help of the ANPA we were talking about in the morning, nor the limited programs. We need to act cross-sectionally and have a specific plan against these violences. Even so, the State Covenant against Gender Violence does not take sufficient measures in relation to sexual violence, so it is particularly relevant and we are going to support this LNP, because it seems to us very complete in relation to the powers that the Union can develop, although the dimension of the problem is quantifying, because it is difficult to quantify. But we have some data such as the macroeconomic survey on violence against women in the EU's Fundamental Rights Agency, which accounted for 13.7% of women in the state who manifested themselves to be affected by sexual violence. We must also act in that data collection, in doing studies. We particularly agree with the need to develop a study on the degree of knowledge about the affectivity and sexuality of young people and to take it as a basis if the affective-sexual education plan of what we also talk about in a previous LNP is necessary. In fact, we are in the context of increasing crimes of sexual violence, given that most of them do not report themselves. It's particularly worrying that they grow around young people. This seems to be related to early access to pornography; a masquerading pornography that shows dominating attitudes. They're also increasing specifically multiple aggressions. We must therefore act in that affective-sexual education to alleviate that reality that children and adolescents have access to sex, to their first contact, through pornography. Therefore, action must be taken against the culture of rape with these studies and with that plan of affective-sexual education. Amnesty International - even yesterday we met with them here - has claimed the need to improve specific protocols on sexual violence, specifically in the approach given to it through health care. Also, as this LNP does, they affect the need for the training of professionals in all the fields dealing with sexual violence, because training is essential to avoid questioning that often have to suffer victims in their own police units or in their own health care. Lack of training when a victim accesses to report a crime of sexual violence. It is also necessary to give a brush on the greatest vulnerability to sexual violence by women with functional diversity and also the specific vulnerability of women working in the home, still without the rights equal to the rest of the workers, who do not report sexual abuse and assault by their men's employers because they fear losing their jobs or because they are working irregularly. In the report that moved us, Amnesty International also specifies this issue as one in which to act. It is also regrettable the media treatment of many cases of sexual violence, banalizing aggression, revitalizing the victims, criminalizing them for the clothes they were wearing or for the ordinary course of life. Oh, that daring, after a sexual assault, follow a normal life! It seems to us that this is an aspect that needs to be highlighted, as is the general treatment of the media on male violence. Overall, our amendment is simply about promoting specific campaigns to raise awareness of the good use of the Internet and about the risks of sexting and cyberviolence, because it is something that is working on the Equality Commission, where this issue has arisen. And it is that sexual violence can also be applied through communication technologies. It's an issue that needs training for all the agents involved in the process, and precisely Amnesty International would transfer us cases of how one can't act when a child denounces cybersexually through the networks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u345	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u346	It's just an addition amendment in that sense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u347	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez Verao. I give the floor to Mrs Pierres López from the Galician Parliamentary Group of Socialists.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u348	Thank you, President. As far as this initiative is concerned, I think it is known that the Socialist Party is fully in line with it, and it is not a mere statement of wills or intentions, because since the Socialist Party entered the Government we have demonstrated our words always with facts and we have pushed the State Pact, as well as its unblocking of funds, which the People's Party has inexplicably stopped. [[Applause]] But we have also promoted such important issues as the reform of the organic law on the formation of judges and juridical operators. Thus, at the Ministry of Justice today 600 legal operators are undergoing an ongoing training course on gender violence. I insist, not words. It is true that among our proposals for government is the firm purpose of modifying the typification of sexual offences to give the absence of consent its proper treatment, on the one hand, by ensuring, with the impulse of a reform of the Criminal Code, that if a woman does not say yes, everything else is not. With that, the victim's lack of consent will be key to sexual crimes. And, on the other hand, by suppressing the crime of sexual abuse, which does not properly transmit the co-active character inherent in any sexual behavior imposed on another person, and replacing it with a clearer and more specific typification for each case. This -- I repeat -- is one of our firm programmatic, ideological objectives and of course also of government, because we understand that the perspective of gender is one of the elements that has to enter decisively into the interpretation of laws, as recommended, in addition to the Istanbul Convention. There's a powerful legal framework, but we need an interpretation that fits social and women's realities. That is why the Socialist Group was the driving force behind an initiative adopted in Congress in May 2018 to rectify the configuration of the Criminal Law Section of the General Codification Commission, precisely that commission which is reviewing the criminalization of crimes, among other issues, and which was made up of only men. Now, finally, count on the voice and the vote of three judges who act like vocals. So the first point of the amendment that we are presenting today has to do with mainly - I want to explain - with the need to provide the text with greater rigor, not so much in the background, of course, as in form. We believe that it is necessary, not so much to ask the Government what is already a firm purpose, but rather to try to shorten those times as soon as possible from the start of those legal changes arising from the review process that has already begun. That is why we believe that the most appropriate would be to request from the Criminal Law Section of the General Commission on Codification, which is responsible for the Ministry of Justice for the reform of the Criminal Code, the presentation, with the highest readiness to the Congress of Deputies, of the report containing the conclusions on the revision of that definition of sexual offences, so that, once presented, if there is a firm commitment to comply with the Istanbul Convention. This committee, as you know, has called for two extensions of time, and we believe it is necessary and it is positive that work is the most legally perfect. In any case, we agree that it seems reasonable to ask that we no longer dilate in time, in order to heed the ultimate objective, which should be to guarantee greater protection and protection for victims of crimes against sexual freedom. Even so, we believe that the proposed change at the organizational level of the violent judges would be difficult to materialize in an immediate manner. If this is done with such immediacy, it would involve triple the number of judges and the resources intended, something that does not seem appropriate; if it is possible, it is proceeding, but not timely, when those judges of violence with their current competences have -- and you know it -- lack of resources and personnel, something which we have also denounced and claimed on several occasions from all groups. We are therefore betting on fulfilling that, yes, but with a progressive increase in resources and competences. And I'm going to finish. From the Socialist Party we have always demonstrated our unequivocal commitment to legislate against the culture of rape and the culture of impunity, which always ends up reinforcing the violent and normalizing anti-social behaviour of machismo. So we support the rest of the points raised in the initiative, and with two matings: the first, of concept. It just seemed in the text that the fact that sexual violence is also taking place in the context of the couple, something that we believe should not be forgotten. And on the other hand, a specific question, as is that, in agreeing with the need to push more firmly all policies to support the fight against gender violence, we believe that budgeting must be at every moment that adequately guarantees the measures and the proposed annual targets. In any case, in case our amendments are not accepted, I would like to point out to you that we will vote in favour of sharing the very important substance of the issues that have been raised here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u349	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u350	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u351	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pierres. The People's Parliamentary Group has the floor to Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u352	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that for such an important issue it is a pity that this hour is now, at which there are only any public, journalists and so on, because I think it is important to visualize sexual violence as a problem of first order and first magnitude. Mrs. Presas, we've agreed on many of the things of your initiative; in others we don't agree, but it's a matter of nuances. But there are things you said here in your intervention to which I think it is fair to say not the opposite, but it is better to complete them. You were saying here that the Galician Union did not present anything new and that nothing is done in terms of sexual violence. I would not enter into this, but, since you said this, I see the obligation to remind you of the campaigns that are alerting you about the dangers of sexting and the workshop on gender-based violence in the new digital context; the prevention and awareness-raising of sexual violence in the youth at the Greek campuses — on the seven Greek campuses and annually — the training of women with disabilities, their families and other staff for the detection of these situations; the personalized support is also carried out for those who have suffered these situations with the Dedaleira-Unidad Querelar programme, in collaboration with Cogami and Acquire; the campaign against sexual harassment at the workplace, with the Galician Association of Socio-Workers and the Galician Professional Union, which covers over 70,000 professionals — we are the first autonomous community to develop such a cooperation—; the campaign "Aggression Off. I say no to sexual violence," which has developed in the galicia festivals within the Galician Fest brand, and in the Way Sound we also saw it. In Galicia the victims of sexual assault — it has been said by all the voices, it is true — they are within the Law of 2007. We have been pioneers and continue to be pioneers in these matters. I see no such measures are being taken in other communities. Regarding the program with the Children's Foundation for Women and Minors Victims of Sexual Violence, the vice president announced that he was going to increase his extension beyond the province of Coruña, which is where he began. And besides, as pioneers considering victims of sexual violence as victims of gender-based violence, what we do is provide resources and assistance to victims of gender-based violence, which in other places are not given because they are not considered victims of gender-based violence. In fact, sexual violence in Galicia has been seen as a kind of gender-based violence, and much earlier since the Istanbul Convention in 2011. And the Spanish state is actually not doing anything; in Spain nothing is being done, the central government is doing nothing. Here came the spokesman of the Socialist Party boasted that in a year and a half they did a lot of things. Well, I'm sorry to say, Mrs. Pierres, that instead of -- you said -- "modify the interpretation of the law," what they had to do was change the law, because the interpretation is already done by the judges. Judges already interpret -- or not, because it may happen that they don't, they don't interpret it -- that if a woman is drugged, or under the effects of alcohol, or is under the effects of burundanga, that her consent is diminished, or that it is a coercion; it remains to her interpretation. But here is one more step to take: to amend the law and to amend it in accordance with the Istanbul Convention and under the State Covenant, Mrs Pierres. Because now the Government of the State is obliged, one, by the Istanbul Convention — which was signed by the State along with 20 other states — and another, by the State Covenant, signed a long time ago. And of course, Mrs. Pierres, you come to say here that the State Pact budgets have been unblocked... Look, the 1 billion of the State Pact are in Mr. Rajoy's budgets, of what we've been talking about here so much, those budgets with which we've been three years... and I'm convinced that Mr. Rajoy's budgets will still last much longer, because Elena Espinosa and her business in Panama, I don't believe - [[Applause]] [[Applause]] But I don't mind him talking about Mr. Rajoy, especially if it's to say that he gave, in those budgets to which you voted against, of EUR 1 billion to develop the State Pact. [[Murmurs.]] You're better off blocking funds, not unlocking them. Look, there are women in the commission, Mrs. Pierres, it's no guarantee of anything. I remind you that the Minister of Justice who you now have, on a journey with his fellow judges, looked the other way as his comrades scrambled with younger prostitutes and exploited sexually. I was a judge. It's no guarantee of anything. What is guaranteed is that people are sensitized and that they put themselves in the political agenda and in the social agenda this problem. Not because they're judges and women will be more sensitive to this subject. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And I don't have time to explain the amendment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u353	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u354	...Mr. Presas. We would be willing to negotiate a transaction on the points that we amend, in the latter part, concerning affective-sexual education, since there is a GNP of the Joint Left Group that we amend. It seems that that amendment will be accepted, let's refer to that agreement on affective-sexual matters. We want to try a pact on this issue, which seems fundamental to us, and we believe that we must agree with all the political forces of this House.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u355	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u356	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u357	For the Joint Left Group, Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u358	Thank you, President. We agree that this non-law proposal is very necessary, and, of course, we are going to vote in favour of it. And the truth is, if I see a change of attitude, often — and I'm sorry to tell you, I don't want to strain the whole — in the People's Party's votes when we're on dates around November 25 and March 8 -- very similar initiatives that are voted against when we're not on these dates. And don't worry that I'll make a history to bring here in the next debate so they don't say it's my imaginations, but it's clear. I think -- we talked about it today -- sexual assaults are very normalized and they're still being, too, like economic violence, a very silent reality. It is true that in recent times we women are being able to break in part with this invisibility, with all these movements, as it has been said here. The Story, the Map of Fear and Me all are getting to know the dimension of this problem that up until now often lived alone; and thanks to self-organization I think we have to collectively bless ourselves that women are taking a step forward saying that it is enough, that we will not continue to consent to this situation and that it is only "yes"; that it is not enough that "no" is not enough, but that it is only "yes." In fact, if we do a real analysis, we see how many stereotypes continue to exist, they continue to exist in many cases of shame and guilt, and often these situations continue to live in silence. Many times it continues to focus on issues that, in our opinion, are secondary, and I am not referring to the judicial field but, for example, to media or social treatment, as they can be: if the woman opposed resistance, if the woman had eyes open or closed, if the woman screamed, if the woman did something to defend herself... often she continues to question more the attitude of women -- the clothes that this woman wore, which made that woman, if that woman brought to her home that person -- than the attitude of the aggressor. That's the fundamental problem. When we talk about sexual assaults, many times the focus continues to be placed on the victim, on the woman; and we see him — as it has already been said here — in the treatment that the media have made of some women victims, as was the case with Manada, where it was questioned, if he was going on vacation, if he still lived. It seems there's still a victim pattern, a victim who has to be depressed, crying all day and who has to have his life ruined. And there's no profile, there's no victim profile, and there's no aggressor profile, as there's not, in general, Machist violence, nor is there any profile in sexual violence. I think it's very important that something be done from the administrations, and that's why we insist so much on the topic of the media. The media often normalize issues that cannot be normalized and have a fundamental task to move towards an equal society, to facilitate that necessary change of mindset. We believe that today we are not doing enough in relation to the media, in fact, we only need to see the media treatment of the latest cases and the latest sexual assaults and as again — as I said — the focus is always on the woman. But more resources still exist, more resources are still needed, more training. And we insist very much on the subject of teaching, because children and children have to understand that sexuality has to be shared, that pleasure has to be mutual, that there must be yes or yes consent. Because, unfortunately, from very young children, we see as normalizing situations of aggression that are not possible. And the problem is that the reason that these aggressions are normalized from the smallest is the extreme cossification that exists from women's bodies. We have to fight this. Of course, the media play a fundamental role, the school is another fundamental role, but society in general has to end with that extreme cossification of women's bodies. And finally, something we talked about here, too. Special situation — and we believe that specific measures must be taken — has the sexual harassment that sometimes occurs in employment, because it is often given to the power of the employed woman with an employer, in which, above all the difficulties that any woman may have to report sexual harassment, it is seen with the added difficulty that, if she complains, she can be fired; that she complains, she may have reprisals in the company. We've got to get this over with. They're too quiet. There were only a few reports coming out in the light of domestic workers, of caretakers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u359	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u360	...where it is seen that it is a tremendously normalized situation that men believe and consider themselves with the ability to make certain comments and to have certain attitudes — even physical — without any impact; there is impunity. Men feel impunity — I think it is becoming less and less thanks to the progress of the feminist movement — and we have to get it to end impunity once and for all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u361	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u362	Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u363	For the author group of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Presas Berganginos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u364	Thank you, President. First, I would like to thank all the groups for trying to reach some kind of consensus. I hope we get between today and tomorrow. And, Mrs. Prado, I didn't say that the Government had done anything, what I said was that Mr. Rueda came here this morning — he's filmed — and that he hasn't spoken of a single new proposal on sexual violence. No, Mrs. Prado, this is the session log of a year ago, and here I was talking about the Program with the Children's Foundation and the 2019 target to expand coverage to the four provinces. It seems good to us that it is being extended, in fact, today we asked him—Mr. Rueda did not answer, I imagine that because it was too wide the banana and the questions; neither do I want to pretend on that question—how many users were. That seems positive to us, but it's not a new proposal to repeat it in 2019 when it was formulated in 2018. In any case, it will have to be improved, increased and thought about other new issues. Because there are debates that we put here on the table and that we put on the table in the morning that we are genuinely concerned about. We are concerned that there may be a woman raped in this country who, having a right, has no free legal assistance; we are concerned about that, and that we also claim to the State, of course. And we too are concerned, for example, about that interinstitutional protocol. In fact, it was a formulation that when Susana López Abella came to explain it to this House we put on the table: and this will work for sexual violence? Because, whether we like it or not, the degree of awareness of professionals and professionals, from deep respect, we have to say that it's very different. We brought to this House a bloody case of a rape in Xinzo where the woman was not treated because she was a foreigner, violating the protocol that exists even at the Spanish health level. But the truth is, that reality is there, and we have a lot to do with it. So I want to make it clear that this matter was not formulated that way. As far as the amendments are concerned, what the Joint Group is concerned seems to us and of course we are going to accept them. As far as the Socialist Party's amendment was concerned, we had the impression that it was lowering the degree of exigencies in some way. We can try to find some point of encounter, at any rate, to make them feel more comfortable. But we understand that patience, as if we were asked to start the Government of the Socialist Party, has already had enough. And with regard to the proposals of the People's Party, we agree with the part of the State, with that specification which we have experienced that, logically, if they are smaller, they have to go to trial by another way. But we would ask for a little more ambition about the duties of the Galician Union. Because it is not good for us to eliminate any proposal that is precisely focused on educational centres, because we have said so with all regard to the debate on the initiative of the Joint Left, which seems to us to be too generalist. And we think we have to start going down to the concrete. Here we already have an equality plan that is not evaluated in education, we are not able to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u365	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u366	...to foment — and end already, Mr. President — an subject in the master's capacity for teaching. We don't have workshops in all the schools, or 20% of the institutes, eh! I don't have the percentage right now, but it's ridiculous, less than 50...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u367	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u368	...teaching centers all over the country. And it is not even fulfilled, as the law itself of 2007 determines, that the School Council reports what the degree of implementation of co-education is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u369	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u370	So it seems to us that it is too low — and only one thing in the middle of the second, Mr President, by thanking you for your understanding. There are two issues that we have already proposed here and that the People's Party has agreed with us and that it has failed: a basic one such as to put a paragraph on the website of the General Secretariat of Equality of course that draws attention to sexual violence and the resources that are there for a woman...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u371	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u372	...victim is going to look for him there; and, another, that evaluates this issue in the Galego Observatory, and so we see it without evaluating it. So we don't think it's enough.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u373	Thank you very much. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u374	We'll try to get into a transaction, but at the moment, this part seems scarce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG138.u375	Thank you very much. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning.
