ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u1	Good morning. We're going to continue the session. I'll first inform you that today I apologize for attending this session, Mr. Francisco Casal. Let's start with the sixth item on the agenda, from questions for oral answers by the President of the Union. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of Mr. José Manuel Lago Peñas of the G.P. in Marea, on the actions planned by the Government of Greece to prevent the economic and social inequality of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u2	Mr. Lake Peñas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u3	Good morning. Good morning, Mr. President. Mr. President, do you know that in Galicia the incomes of those who earn the most multiply the incomes of those who earn the least? Social inequality is one of the most serious problems facing the Greek society. It was before the recession and now it's even more. The Galician Economic and Social Council, which considers it worrying that the levels of poverty and inequality that have grown so much during the economic crisis do not record the expected improvement with economic recovery. Mr President, there is an unfair distribution of wealth that undermines the well-being of the majority and puts a significant part of the Greek society at risk of poverty or social exclusion. True, inequality is a global problem, I just told ILO. It's a complex problem that needs to be addressed from many fronts. This is the question: in this global fight against inequality, what will your government do in the year that remains its mandate?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u4	Thank you, Mr. Lago. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Lago. Welcome to the Galician Government Control Sessions. As you know, there is no greater cause of inequality than the lack of employment. And as you also know, unemployment in the autonomous community in the last 12 months is being twice as high as in the rest of Spain. In other words, unemployment in Galicia in recent years, in the last 12 months, for example, has dropped by 8.7%, twice as low in Spain. But in addition, unemployment in Galicia in the last decade, from 2009 to 2019, has fallen to 55,000 people. When we got to the government, there were 210,000 registered people, and now there are 155,000. But in addition, as far as social security membership is concerned, we have 1,025,000 members of Social Security, which means nearly 19,000 members of Social Security more than in the past year. And if you want to get the EPA data, you'll also believe that we're at the best rate of unemployment in a first quarter -- this 2019 -- about the first quarter of 2009, and we have two points less unemployment than the average of Spain. And that's what the Galician Union is doing in relation to its shared competences in economic policy. Now, Your Honor, you're telling me about inequality, you're telling me about poverty. And I'm sure there's data that you probably didn't have time to review; like, for example, the risk rate of poverty. Do you know that in Galicia the rate of risk of poverty today is better than there was in the time of economic prosperity in the year 2008? Do you know that at the poverty risk rate Galicia was the second autonomous community where it has been lowest in the last ten years? You know, Your Honor, I am convinced, that the number of homes with difficulty to arrive at the end of the month is the lowest in the historical series. I suppose, Mr. Lago, that you know that the reduction in severe material deficiency is undoubtedly Spain's second best after Aragon, 1.6%. After Aragon is the best in Spain. And you will know, I am convinced, Mr. Lago, that the wage improvement in Galicia is above the average of autonomous communities in the last ten years. That's why inequality is less than the average of Spain in any of the indexes. And we're at the best indexes where the number of homes with difficulty to reach the end of the month, I insist, the best of the historical series. And we are the second autonomous community with the best percentage and the greatest reduction in the severe material shortage of our families.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u6	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u7	What have we done, Mr. Lago? In addition to an economic policy that in this context of desolation in Spain is functioning reasonably, we have adopted a new inclusion law, we have committed three times as much budgeted for risk — from 22 million euros spent in 2008 to more than 69 million euros. And we also put 12 measures against defiance, we're helping in energy bonds, and we made a new decree of social integration income in Galicia, which basically consists of increasing Galicia's social integration income by 22%.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u9	Mr. Lago, as you can imagine today, as far as poverty and inequality are concerned, we are better than we were at the time of economic kindness. Now, if you tell me if this data is to feel satisfied, I anticipate that in no case. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u11	What a disappointment, Mr. President! I asked him a concise question about whether he was answering it, and that for the first time in this House this fact had occurred: that the president had answered a question and not a story. And he didn't answer it, because the question is, what are you going to do to fight inequality? We'll have to keep waiting. How can you say that you will continue to do what you are doing when there are 61,000 people in our country at risk of poverty or social exclusion! I'm 1 out of every 4 Galicians and you say you're going to keep doing the same thing. Mr. President, this is about employment. I didn't think to say it, but, as you say, Galicia is the autonomous community with the worst evolution of employment from 2008 to 2018, the second worst. Only Asturias is worse than us. And there are 75,000 jobs less today than when you started presiding over Galician Union. I'm going to tell you something else: you're going to go to the history of the country because you're the only president with whom, under your mandate, you haven't increased the number of jobs. President, all the indicators you have used are conditioned because we are an aging society where pensions act as social support and because there is low immigration. But all indicators — Gini index, poverty risk rate, ratio 80/20 — have worse data in 2017 than in 2008, in all cases. Mr President, it is the inequality which explains that, despite the fact that we have the same wealth — because GDP recovered the level it had in the year 2008 — most of the living society is worse. GDP is the same, but the part to pay wages...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u12	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u13	...is EUR 3,500 million below. We all know why. There are 75,000 fewer jobs, there are many more people working part-time and wages are devalued. IRPF data perfectly reflects inequality and even labour poverty. Half a million employees and employees in Wales don't enter 900 euros a month, half of the working class in Galicia is a millionaire. President, you gave the ratio, but I'm going to give the figure: in Galicia there are actually 213,000 families that have total income under EUR 1,000. And, therefore, 1 out of every 3 homes, 1 out of every 3 homes in our country, has difficulty reaching the end of the month.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u14	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u15	It's over, though, as time was listened, Mr. President, leave the negationism and answer the question. For once, stand up, as I stand in the Chamber. Are you going to do something in the year that remains his mandate to combat the social inequality of our country?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u16	Thank you, Mr. Lago. Close this question, Mr President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u17	Mr. Lago, as much as twisting the data, the data is what they are. You just said in the House that, taking any data you get, we're worse than in 2008. You don't stretch yourself out very rigorously. The poverty risk rate in 2008 is 20.9%; now 18.8%. Not at all! [[Murmurs.]] But that's what I'm saying is very serious. I'm saying, and I do my word, that the poverty rate in Galicia today is below the year 2008. Don't you? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr President, I will pass on to you this data, which is official data. [[Applause]] Second indicator: the AROPE indicator, the poverty indicator. In Galicia in 2008, it was 25.1%; now 23%, according to the indicator. These are the two indicators that measure the poverty rate in Spain. Third indicator: the number of homes with difficulty reaching the end of the month is the lowest in the series. With ease or a lot of ease, from 2018 to 2019 we rose eleven points, of 54% that arrived at the end of the month we easily moved to 65.5%. And with difficulty, we dropped ten points, from 45% last year to 34.5% this year. The wages above average rise by a dozen percent in the last ten years. It's the autonomous community where the wages are the most above average. You come here to say that all the indicators of poverty and inequality are worse than in 2008 and it turns out that they are better than in 2008 and better than in the middle of Spain, that we are from the autonomous communities in which the poverty index, the AROPE index, and that of homes with difficulties to arrive at the end of the month. And we are the autonomous community in which the lowest fell, along with Aragon, severe material poverty. And you're coming to say exactly the opposite! Now I'm beginning to understand how the previous spokesperson in that group made a set of data that I was surprised at exactly what the source would be. Now we're living from the most direct source, Mr. Lago. We finally found the most direct source of the manipulated data you bring to the House. [[Applause]] And she stays so loud and says, "No, it's not true. [[Applause]] So what INE says isn't true -- living conditions survey on June 27, 2019. But don't you even check the year 2019? On 27 June — I reiterate — Galicia is better at the rate of poverty and inequality than when the Bipartite ruled, ladies and gentlemen, than in full economic goodness. And I don't say it, say it, the National Institute of Statistics, year by year...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u18	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u19	...and the Galego Institute of Statistics, year by year. And you ask me what we're going to do. Well, look, keep working with the only social agenda we signed, we agreed, with all the social initiative entities that are dedicated to poverty, and with the Galaga Federation of Municipalities and Provinces. We have a pact, the one-off social agenda agreement against poverty. And it's committed to all the organizations and NGOs that are dedicated to this matter and to the Greek municipalities. What are we going to do? Review it, Your Honor, and update it! But, Mr. Lago, as you stand in this control session, I propose that you bring official data and not just what happens to you. Because what happens to him and what happens doesn't always match.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u20	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u21	And that is why — I insist — despite the fact that inequality and poverty are still a problem in Galicia, it is a problem in Galicia much smaller than in the average of Spain. And I would like, since we're going to have a chance to talk for a long time — I suppose — that you told me, Your Honor, that autonomous community is doing things better. Where's the poverty rate going down further? Where are you lowering the AROPE rate? How many homes are arriving at the end of the month without difficulties in other autonomous communities?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u22	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u23	Mr. Lago, with all due respect, we already have enough problems to deny the progress of Galician society during this decade.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u24	Thank you. Your time is over, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u25	And those advances believe, Your Honor, that, taking the data you've taken, we're better than ten years ago. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u26	Thank you. Developmental modification of the plenary session
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u27	Now, two questions have to be answered cumulatively. In particular, one question from the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and another from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Ask Mr. President of the Council of Galicia of Da. Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the evaluation of the policies of the Government of Galicia to curb the demographic decline of Galicia Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga of G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the views of the Government of Greece on the impact of the new initiatives in the face of the demographic problems of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u28	He begins by asking the question, by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Feijóo, the demographic crisis of Galicia is a demolition of a double failure, of its president and of the People's Party, which is unable to offer an alternative of the future to this country. And I say this knowing that demography is a complex matter and in which trends evidently change in the medium and long term. But it turns out that in this country the People's Party has been ruling for thirty years, and it turns out that already in 2009 you promised that it would slow down the demographic indentation. What was the result of your promise? We have the worst data in our history. Look, Galicia keeps losing population, births are falling free, and young people still have to emigrate. Specifically, in the last decade, 250,000 Welsh and Welsh emigrated, it's as if the entire city of Coruña had disappeared. Here's a breakthrough, you've already begun to recognize that the problem of emigration is a very serious problem, and even if you were forced to submit a return plan after you voted against that BNG proposal. But I've already told you that the demographic crisis will not be solved with plans for those who remain propaganda and lack ambition, or for Christmas policies that have always failed in all the countries in which they applied. [[Applause]] Because, look, people won't have kids because they're asking the government for them either for the country's sake or for 100-euro baby checks or for welcome boxes. People are going to have children and daughters, first, if they want them; and secondly, if there is any job and social expectations that allow them to have decent wages, future expectations and quality in employment and social welfare. Because the underlying problem of this demographic crisis is the economy. Be convinced, Mr. Feijóo! And in this area, the Government is neither expected nor expected. The big debate pending is about what economic transformations this country has to put in place to create jobs of quality, social stability and social well-being, and to have expectations for the future among new people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u30	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u31	Of course, it won't create a propagandistic demography law which is wet paper. It will not create decent employment a demography law that repeats failed measures and provides no real solution. So, since BNG, we've made a proposal: focus on the economy, make a strategic bet on industrializing the basic sectors of this country, make a real bet on R & D+i and talent by doubling public funds. He joins the claim to derogate labour reforms. Because we know that precariousness is conditioning people's lives; and if not, look at the last fertility rate. And finally, a real bet for conciliation is essential. Incorporate children from 0 to 3 years of age into the educational framework.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u32	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u33	You'll check, Mr. Feijóo, that it does work. What we're telling you is that I take these proposals, and you'll see how in the medium term we're starting to change the demographic trends of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u34	Thank you. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u35	Good morning, Mr. Núñez Feijó. When we see the press headlines about the Demographic Push Law, we can only exclaim — let me put something beer on it — "I want God to scare me this greatness!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh The first law of Spain with objectives such as to curb depopulation, balance the territory, which returns 20,000 Greeks and gales, reverse the fall of fertility...! All of them, purposes that we can only share. And, of course, we're in a situation where action is needed. Some things have already been said. The diagnosis is powerful and testifies to the failure of its policy in this matter. In 2018 there is an absolute minimum births in Galicia, absolute minimum! We're already what the demographics call the lowest of low fertility, with a continuous decline in the number of births since you've been president. Some say that in Galicia the best contraceptive is the policies of Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo, perhaps with a little excess. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] We're in two deaths for every birth. True, the external balance is positive in the last two years thanks to the social, economic and political crisis of some Latin American republics — individually Venezuela. But I don't think you want to hang that medal. And as for internal imbalances, as you know, there are 28 districts that in the last ten years have lost more than 15% of their population. We're also in a limited position. And this failure would force his policies to change their roots. If we look at what's contained in the preliminary draft, it's clearly not going to happen, those policies won't change. You want to fight the demographic crisis with a legal text. It's a legitimate option, although I don't know if it's going to be the most effective one, but you've opted for it. But if you really think that's the way to fight the demographic crisis, what you have to do is remove the preliminary draft, because that's not a legal text, it's just a statement of intent. And a declaration of intent does not have the same strength or effectiveness as the law. Because a law prescribes and forbids. And this one, in general, doesn't. Think, for example, about employment or housing. In employment policy — in housing it says something very similar — it is said that the Galician Union will put in place specific youth-oriented programmes, families with children and in a state of unemployment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u36	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u37	He doesn't say anything else, nothing else! We can all support this, but will something change about what already exists? Haven't you been doing that kind of politics until now? It's 700 million. I suppose they'll be bigger, and I hope you can tell us what those 700 million press headlines say. And what is to be prescribed, more concrete, is nothing but inertia — like the Welcome Card — or, if I may, try to go to war with toys: family parking reserve, publication of the vegetable balance by municipalities or measures of this kind. Do you really think that you can fight the population crisis in Galicia with this?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u38	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u39	Mr. Núñez Feijóo, you must take citizenship seriously, abandon rhetoric and abandon marketing, and go to definite and verifiable policies. If you change your project and make a thorough reform of your policies, we can talk about this; and if not, it's going to be very complicated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u40	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u41	After this rigorous intervention by the spokespersons of the BNG and the Socialist Party on demography and their alternative policies, and in addition to the frivolity with which you talk about this matter, I would at least like to see it from the point of view of the medium bottle full. Welcome to the demographic problem, Mrs. Pontón and Mr. Leicega. Welcome to the concern about the demographic problem. In my first debate of the state of autonomy and my taking possession in 2009 the first of the issues I posed as a challenge for Galicia was the demographic problem. President Fraga spoke about these matters during many meetings of this Parliament. And in the last ten years, the only initiative of the opposition we remember in relation to the demographic problem has been to rise from the parliamentary committee to study the demographic problem. Mr. Leicega, you may not remember. No, if you normally vote for parliamentary committees or don't go or stand up, so I'm not surprised that you don't remember or even do what you do. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] But the truth and truth, Your Honor, is that since the year 2009, since the first moment I had the opportunity to preside over Galicia, we have been marking this problem. Between 2013 and 2016 we took the Forum of European Regions and unanimously approved — in a somewhat more serious parliament than this one — the Committee of Regions — a document urged, among other things, by this autonomous community. In 2017 we convinced the Government of Spain to put forward a demographic plan and to propose a state secretariat for the demographic plan. We don't know a single proposal. And three autonomous communities of the Socialist Party—to see that the Socialist Party also has serious leaders—, Aragon, Asturias and Castile-A Mancha, along with Castela-León, Galicia and Rioxa, we presented proposals in Zaragoza on demographic matters. I'm sure you, as you don't speak within the Socialist Party, may not have found out. And now it turns out that we're presenting a bill, and before I get into the House, it's propaganda. It is a bill that is the result of the work of over a year of the Galician Demographic Observatory, full of professionals who study Galician demographic problems. And you say all these professionals are demagogues. Look, ladies, if you'd studied Galicia's subjects a little bit easier to talk about. Look, despite demographic problems, Galicia is growing and growing in the last three years over the average of Spain. And it's true that despite the demographic problems and the aging population, Galicia is responding with more squares than ever before and more proposals than ever before to the problems of aging. And despite all this, the balance between the interior and the coast in Galicia remains one of the budgetary policies of the Autonomous Community. But, Mr Leicega, do you — who before liked to study — know that there is no country in the European Union that reaches the minimum fertility that guarantees generational relief? No country of the European Union!, no! And see that in the countries of the European Union, Mr Feijóo does not rule. Do you know that since 1984 there has been no autonomous community in Spain that has a fertility index that guarantees generational relief? Since 1984, no autonomous community in Spain. Do you know that the fertility rate today — for example 2017, the year definitely closed — is greater than we had, for example, in 1998? Are you, Mr. Leicega, really gonna start taking it seriously again, or is that, because if you go, you're all kidding? This isn't a joke to me, Your Honor. A responsible economic policy is what we've been doing for so long. To say — as Mrs Pontón says — that 200,000 young people have left Galicia in recent years when it turns out that the migration balance, since I am President, is positive for Galicia in 40,000 people. In other words, 40,000 more people have entered Galicia in the last ten years and Mrs. Pontón has just come here to joke about the migratory movements of the country! Mrs. Pontón, say something and the opposite. First she says that women will have children when they love them and then tell me that I'm to blame that women don't have children in Galicia. How can we make Christmas policies if this is retrograde, conservative! [[Murmurs.]] And now it turns out that Galicia's problem is the problem of birth, but, Mrs. Pontón, is there any autonomous community that poses more tax deductions than ours? Regarding time flexibility and teleworking, 11,000 employees in the autonomous community. We are the first autonomous community that has increased maternity leave in the field of public service. Your Honor, don't you know that we are one of the autonomous communities with more help to reduce the number of days in single-parent families? Is this a joke to Welcome Card, Mr. Leicega? How did it not happen to you when you had money at the time of economic kindness? Is it a joke to invest 50 million euros and reach 45,000 families who enjoy the Welcome Card for every baby born in the autonomous community? Is that a joke? Is it a double play from 12,000 to 25,000 babysitters? Have there ever been a policy of conciliation on more ambitious childhood schools than this one?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u42	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u43	But, Mr. Leicega, is the Socialist Party's proposal really to consider demagogic a law that they don't even know or started to debate in the House? Mr. Leicega, there have never been so many conciliation measures in the autonomous community as at present; never so many tax reliefs per second and third son have been in Galicia as at present; never so many cards Welcome—to 45,000 families, and 50 million euros invested—so that these families can improve their income, despite having difficulties, as always, to find a new fit for a son or a daughter. And now that we've come up with Spain's first demographic impulse law, do you think that's a demagogy?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u44	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u45	Mr. Leicega, Mrs. Pontón, I would like to be able to speak seriously to the BNG and the Socialist Party. Unfortunately, on demographic issues, you follow as in the 1980s; i.e., without knowing. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u46	Thank you. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u47	Mr. Feijó, don't get so angry. If everything goes so well, why bother you with this question? Because I see him, the truth, very altered, failing to do so to everyone, starting with this Parliament. Because I don't know which parliament is more serious than the German Parliament. It would be nice if I told you. [[Applause]] What a lack of respect for the Greeks and the Greeks and this country! And, look, the only frivolity we have seen today in this House is a president who has been ruling this country for ten years and a party who has been responsible for Galicia's economic policy and future, who has the worst demographic data in our history and who comes here with a proposal, which is to insult and oppose the opposition. That's a frivolity to a subject as serious as what we've got ahead of us. And if you have to go to Fraga to try to save the furniture, the situation, of course, is worse than it might seem. I don't know if you ask or think at some point it's a paradox. We have, in your opinion, more than ever: more childish squares, more help, more deductions... more than anything. Oh, but we have fewer children and girls and less youth, in one part because more than 100,000 girls and girls have emigrated over the past decade. Together, 250,000 Welsh and Welsh. How would the vegetable balance of this country be if they hadn't been thrown out, Mr. Feijóo? What about the vegetable balance? That's a problem. [[Applause]] And if it doesn't seem like a problem to you, explain to me why now, in the time of the discount, sets in motion a plan for the return of emigration. It would be nice if you could explain it to us and to the Greeks and to the Greeks, who deserve respect from the President. That's why we insist: the demographic problem will not be solved by a law. The bottom line debate is the economy, what kind of wages, what kind of job stability, what prospects for the future have for new people and what is the productive model. [[Murmurs.]] Look, I'm allowed, as a former American president would say, Bill Clinton: It's the economy, stupid Actually, Mr. Feijóo, take the proposals that are launching the Galego Nationalist Block, focus on the underlying problem of demography, which is the economy, and no longer failed Christmas policies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u48	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u49	...because we're seeing the outcome of your Christmas policies: the worst data in our history. And, look, you're always talking to us about the worst is no use to this country. He's starting to see those countries that were able to turn the demographic situation around.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u50	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u51	There are examples that work, but it seems...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u53	...that the president of the board would be happy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u54	Thank you. For the reply, Mr. Fernández Leicega has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u55	Yes, Mr. President. The truth is, your answer would lead me to answer: yes, that's just it. But, look, two little things. It's better to have studied something you've never done. That's it, for starters. [[Laughter]] And secondly, in the parliamentary committee of what you are talking about — do you remember? — the main conclusion is that there was a campaign of propaganda to convince the Greeks that they had children. That was the main conclusion of that commission. That's why we said that there was either a change in welfare policies, in labour market policies, or there was no point in continuing to cooperate with this. The same thing you haven't told me about 700 million now. Maybe it's hard to improvise an answer. I hope so in the budgets. It'll be 700 more, I suppose, not the last marketing operation. And so let's wait there to see if those 700 million that accompany the law are real or smoke. And I repeat that, of course, there are alternatives. Look, in Germany, the fertility rate is increasing. But, among other things -- and I propose that we talk about it -- they set a subjective right for all children and children of a year to be entitled to a childcare facility at a price they can afford. Do we agree with that? Have we established a negotiation with the unions to incorporate into all collective bargaining and also into the Galician union conciliation policies and serious labour stability policies? Do we put in place a minimum income program, as Airef says, wage-compatible, which incorporates aid for those families who need it, not until 3 years old, but until 12 or 15 years old, progressively? Do we put in place an independent agency, such as in Scotland, to rebalance the territory, and professional, which, with funds, allows to establish decent services and working conditions throughout the territory? Do we establish a map of basic services with a link on the territory, with a timetabled commitment and investment, to give everyone opportunities where they are? Did we eliminate co-financing in the programs proposed by the Galician Council for those municipalities that are in serious population regression? We have incorporated into social dialogue an equality plan and a conciliation plan following, for example, the Basque model, which is far more advanced than our own, because, more equality, more births, Mr Feijóo — the more equality, more births — we must put this into the head — with a public commitment to help recover the professional career of the woman after maternity?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u56	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u57	I could go on, but what I want to tell you is clear. If we abandon rhetoric, it's very easy. It's not about making a gift basket by putting what's already being done in a brighter envelope, like a law, and trying to sell this as a big step forward, because it's not. It's just inertia that will lead us to the same results. Avoid ending up like the dream of Cervantes, which I know you know. If there are profound changes, realisation and serious commitments, let's talk. If everything remains on the ground, in smoke, in dust, in shadow, in nothing, with us you will not be able to count. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u58	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. You have the floor, Mr President, to close this question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Leicega, when you talk to me about the 700 million, do you refer to the government of Spain's puppet in relation to the money they owe us in the 2019 budget? Are you referring to that puppie, or is it simply, in order for Galicia to receive what is appropriate to it, we must vote in favour of Mr Sánchez being President of the Government — so that Galicia has what is appropriate to him! Mr. Leicega, with your proposals, as you will understand, it's not very easy to speak seriously. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Leicega, after listening carefully to you, do you really opt for the post of Secretary of State for Demography, which created the Socialist Party when you came to power? Yes, Your Honor. Don't you know there's a State Secretariat for Demography in the Unpublished Government of Spain? Yes, yes, a commissioner for unpublished demography. Ah! well, isn't the rank of State Secretary? [[Murmurs.]] Look, Mr. Leicega, lessons on demography of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party will understand that we will not receive any. You'll understand, Your Honor, that's not serious, because it's not serious to say that the demographic problem is Mr. Feijóo's when since 1976 the number of births in Galicia has dropped continuously until 2019. [[Applause]] Between 1976 and 1979 they were born in Galicia 43,000 children. In the second lustro it dropped by 20%; in the next lustro, 1985-1989, another 25%; between 1990 and 1994, another 17% and between 1995 and 1999, another 17.7%. I mean, in 15 years, we went down half, 43,000 to 20,000. And it turns out this was Mr. Feijóo's fault? Your Honor, Mr. Feijóo went to a Peares rural school when this was happening in the country. That's exactly it, Mr. Leicega. [[Applause]] A little respect for biography! Mrs. Pontón, you say the problem is economic. But, Mrs. Pontón, if not even the BNG read. And then he says it bothers him to be so blunt! It's just that you can't come to Parliament to make up. It's only here that the Greeks pay us to speak seriously about Galicia. The fertility survey just published in 2019 says: "Economic reasons for not having children in Galicia, 9.7%; because it's not wanted, 16.2%; because there's no inappropriate partner or partner, 14.7%." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] But, Mrs. Pontón, do you really come here to say that the problem is a strictly economic problem, when it turns out that the Greeks say exactly why they don't want to have children and don't agree with you? But, Mrs. Pontón, can you come here to manipulate what the Greeks and the Greeks say? [[Strong murmurers.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u60	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u61	Mrs Pontón, the main problem with having no children is the increase in maternity and paternity — 20.5% of the cases. Why don't you read what the Galicians say? The Galicians that most children have, Your Honor, look where, they're the least income they have. But are you really not going to study Galician affairs and bring here any reasonable proposals about the country's problems? You'll understand that sometimes it's not easy to respond to frivolity and improvisation as we're listening to in this control session. It's about the fertility rate. In 1998, it was 0.92%. In 2017, it was 1.12%. What's the matter? It's not the fertility rate, it's that we have less and less women of fertile age. That's the problem, Your Honor. In 1998 we had... But reindeer?Oh, my God! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You laugh about the country, you laugh about the demographic problem here. [[Laughter]] And laugh, they say more frivolity, less, they don't care, they say the problem is Christmas programs, that the woman has children when she wants them... but are you really going to be serious? [[Murmurs.]] Are you kidding me about this? The number of women of fertile age in the 1990s was 700,000 and now we're at 550,000, that is, about 123,000 minus. The problem, therefore, is not the number of children per woman of fertile age, the problem is that we have less and less women of fertile age. And this is the problem of Galicia, it is the problem of Spain and it is the problem of the European Union. Really, ladies and gentlemen, aren't you going to take this seriously? [[Applause]] How can you get to this Parliament and say that the problem of fertility and birth in Galicia is from the people who leave, when I have just mentioned the data that in the last ten years, despite the recession, despite the economic crisis and despite the fact that thousands of immigrants have left Spain because they have no employment, despite all this, the people of Greece between those who go out and those who enter have increased by 40,000 people? How can it be said here that the youth is leaving Galicia when, between 16 and 34 years of age, those who have come out against those who have entered give a positive balance of more than 6,200 young people? But is there really no interest in the opposition for speaking seriously about Galicia? You're laughing at the return policy. In 2018, more than 13 thousand people came into Galicia than they went out. It's the best data in the last ten years. But it turns out that this, the policies of returnees, is a joke. But, ladies and gentlemen, exactly what do you propose? Do you propose that we delete all the policies that we have just adopted? Do we eliminate, Mr. Leicega, the Welcome Card? It's 50 million euros for parents and mothers who have children. Do we eliminate children's homes in rural areas?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u62	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u63	Did we eliminate the 25,000 squares of children’s schools — more than 13,000 new ones we’ve done in recent years —? Do you want to remove the Care Bonus? Is there any Bipartite proposal on demographics that we should be vigilant? Have you, for four years of economic kindness, developed any proposals on demographics in addition to laughing at the demographic problems of the country? And now it turns out, Your Honor, that you don't just laugh at demographic problems, you laugh at couples...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u64	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u65	...of families, and laugh at the problems we have in Galicia. They're not interested in knowing or proposing. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u66	Thank you. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u67	Your Honor, they criticize all the measures.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u68	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u69	I'm telling you one thing: you continue to criticize the demographic impulse measures of this government. This government will bring to the House a law of demographic impulse. You have a proposal to make a law of demographic impulse by consensus. If you want to use it, use it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u70	Thank you, President. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u71	And I also say to them: you laugh at the Welcome Card — 50 million euros and 45,000 families benefited —.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u72	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u73	They laugh at children’s schools — 25,000 children’s schools —
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u74	Your time is over, President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u75	They laugh, because they have a lot to laugh about.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u76	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u77	We will continue to adopt measures for the benefit of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u78	Your time is up, president!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u79	...of demographic impulse...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u80	You've finished your time now, please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u81	...all months remaining of legislation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u82	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u83	Nothing else and thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u84	Thank you. We continue with the agenda, with non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Luisa Pierres López and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the attention of the consultations relating to the processing of projects and the processing of files in the provincial services of Cultural Heritage
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u85	An amendment has been tabled by the EMEA Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u86	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Pierres. Wait a second. [[Murmurs.]] Wait a second that there's more peace of mind. [[Pause.]] Whenever you want, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u87	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. As you all know, it has recently been passed in this House Law 1/2019 on rehabilitation and urban regeneration and renewal in Galicia; a law that has marked among its priorities — perhaps the most important — that of improving the axillization and management of the dossiers that form part of the Greek cultural heritage. And the truth is, it's not a minor objective. And it's not because delays in the processing of affected file licenses and reporting dependents by Heritage, Junta, are one of the most controversial issues and therefore one of the biggest challenges of this public administration. Recognizing the problem, no doubt, is the first step to shorten it. And there this Socialist Group applauds that, at least, if you recognize that need for improvement. And that's why we also bring this initiative, because we also believe in agitating, but agitating from the primary responsibility and defence of the heritage. And today I believe that, from the constructive point of view, from the Socialist Group, we have to express our concern — which has already come from behind — as far as it refers to the need to strengthen these provincial services and to do so from the quality, above all, and not only from the speed. It's true that not all provincial services have worked with the same workload in recent years. He tells us that many of them work in seemingly reasonable times. It is, frankly, the provincial service in Pontevedra that has shown more difficulty than anyone in resolving reports coming to this service, as well as more complaints, due to poor functioning, by promoters and technical or drafting techniques. And this is explained by the reception of 2,000 to 2,200 annual files that have to be reported by a body of three employees. This issue has caused the collapse of the service, which it took more than a year to report even the first of the reports of a file, which is completely understandable, because it assumes that between the three officers they had to report an average of nine daily reports. It is something that would be possible in the case of minor and low difficulty work files, but not in the case of larger works, which always require greater work and previous study. If we add to this the problems of attention to the public, the thing is even more complicated. And if it is true that the service of this province has been strengthened since June 18, 2018, this reinforcement has not been carried out with its own staff but has been chosen for temporary recruitment of an external company. The reinforcement, in addition, has proved absolutely necessary, as this contract has been extended again from March to June this same year. We don't know, therefore, the real state of that service to this day. From this group we believe that this type of solution, being legal and temporal, does not have to be the focus of criticism. We understand or want to understand that, on the one hand, the processing and custody of all the information being processed is being carried out within the proper administrative procedure, and that, on the other hand, this task of support in the issue of reports was developed by competent technicians and techniques. We want to think this is the way it is. In fact, this is a debate that has already been held during the process of the Rehabilitation Act: the training to be ensured in the processing and issuance of reports from all personnel who have the task of informing dossiers related to Heritage — and even more so in this case in which issues are reported directly affecting BIC and building on BIC contours, which are the records that should be the only ones that are handled in this type of service in the future. This training has been carried out by architects and architects, archeologists and archaeologists. And it's not worth any technical profile, you have to have and require specific training. And, of course, something that's also very important is that we need to demand criteria, we have to have clear criteria. It is not understood, therefore, that in a service, there are some kinds of architectural solution and suitability of materials that are not considered in other provincial services; and more so, within the services themselves, some officials also exist those differences of criterion. And that's not a reprehensible matter — I think — to the official staff. They and they apply the best they have: their knowledge and their own criteria. The problem arises from the lack of coordination between services and the lack of a compendium of common criteria of action; something that should have existed for some time, especially for those issues that are shared but never properly transferred to promoters and technical staff involved in each project. And we're not talking about unique-type actions in buildings that could also be understood as solutions that are less standardized and more adapted to the specific character of the property or that need to be treated, but we're talking about those of a certain entity that affect housing buildings and in which, for example, in the same area of a street or a square they have warned of clear different criteria between a dwelling and another landline. A dwelling, therefore, is admitted to a solution which is curiously denied on the side. And why? Because it was informed by different technicians and with different criteria. Moreover, there is a widespread complaint about indefinition that is also being given in many of the reports that are being issued today since the Pontevédrés service; i. e., you respond with phrases so generic that it is frankly difficult for the promoter or promoter or even for technicians and technicians to recognize what the resolution or mandate of the report is, even with contradictory messages. This may not seem too serious if you can contact your own service and ask for an explanation or clarification. But here too there seems to be another problem, and there is a recent restriction in the consultations of promoters, technicians, or even representatives of institutions who want to manage the dossier affected by Heritage. At this moment, any consultation addressed to this provincial service must be made in writing, according to a restricted instance to a leaflet — which I have there, then I will teach it — and which obviously hinders and limits the ability of the consultation. Remember, we're talking about files in which often the doubt, if it's not accompanied by images or documents, is very difficult, if not impossible, to transmit and understand. This, in the initial and pre-processing phases, forces promoters to make investments already in plans and property reports where the interest in rehabilitation depends very much on that previous response. This issue, therefore, dissuades from the most important consultations and serves only for lesser doubts than, in any case, could also be resolved by the fact that with face-to-face or telephone attention, something that happens in the rest of the provincial services. There are many small and large promoters who also want to acquire buildings for the promotion of housing or for commercial sites. And as soon as they hear the word "Patrimonium" come back. And I'm not telling you, you can also comment on any real estate agency or promoter in the province of Pontevedra. And that is, if the slowness of processing adds to the disparity of criteria and the denial of face-to-face attention to the resolution of doubts, which results in an absolutely generalized discouragement and a refusal to acquire or promote works that affect the rehabilitation of a property affected by Heritage. Is it so hard to understand that you're slowing down the entrepreneurship, but of course also consolidation and maintenance of the heritage? Both issues, I think, are of the utmost importance to Galicia. Resolving queries prior to the start of a file is probably one of the most important factors to properly forward your processing and to avoid precisely investigating it for months or years for discussions that can be resolved in a first phase, or in any case to minimize the consequences. I also want to mention that a lot of files are not solved either by the issue of a report but by the resolution of many of them, first of all, by the issue of a sub-sanitation report.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u88	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u89	And what does that mean? That, if the processing path is already tedious, hindering agile information does not seem to be the best way to boost rehabilitation or transparency of processes either. It's so obvious that you don't understand why you choose to deny presence attention, and less because you're making this issue difficult for some Greeks yes, in Pontevedra's provincial service, and not for the rest of the Greeks and the Greeks. The answer, the truth, is that we have it clear. And it is that there are services that continue to be absolutely outdated today. And the need for staff to concentrate on reporting as much as possible precisely prevents them from carrying out public care. We believe that these territorial inequalities cannot be maintained for longer, that these services must be provided with more means, both human and technical, and that attention to people and citizens — and, at least, also to technicians and drafting techniques — must be an inexcusable priority of services.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u90	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u91	For all this — and it is over — our group calls for the necessary measures to be taken within a maximum of two months to ensure that in all provincial services of Cultural Heritage, dependent on the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Order, the attention and resolution of questions of promoters, technicians and institutional representatives, both present and telephonely, in order to promote transparency...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u92	Thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u93	...the axillization and effectiveness of projects.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u94	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u95	And on the other hand...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u96	Thank you, your time is up. [[Applause]] Thank you. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. Well, it's a very complex, very important subject. And with regard to "Law 3R" — to speed up — our parliamentary group has already taken a stand. And the position he took was to make the amendment to the whole. It is partially amended, but it also amends to the whole, because we believe that this law seriously endangers our cultural heritage. First of all, to say that these provincial differences we believe have a source and a cause, but in these five minutes I would like to talk about four little things. First, why are there provincial differences? Possibly Pontevedra - possibly, I say - has not yet agreed or is not yet a Tragsa shareholder, and this is an important factor; Tragsa or Tragsatec. Of course, we must show a contempt on the part of the council, and I am very glad that the Councillor of Culture is here. How is it possible — since you are, Counsellor — that the Culture Council, which is responsible for defending our heritage, is now responsible for its defence? We can't understand it. In other provinces, the Data Protection Act is being violated. Look at a very relevant detail. Official workers, who have to be responsible, who have to report on their assets, have been told that the files must be stored under the keys because no one else can consult the data they contain. The council systematically denies requests for telework that present archaeologists, architects and architects, based precisely on which information they contain is sensitive. All right, how is it possible, then, that they can be physically transferred to the offices of the companies, that they take the responsible ones or the members of Tragsatec, and take this data? We're talking about very important data, we're talking about plans, we're talking about bank data, we're talking about construction plans, bank accounts, construction budgets... all the data contained in building permits and urban management, which must be guarded by officials, I insist. That's why there are also complaints on the part, in particular, of the Glaga Interunion Central that call for the removal of management orders. We've been looking for these management orders. It's funny, we found three, two contracted by the General Directorate of Heritage, for a value -- I don't mean wrong data -- one of EUR 148,264, to cover four months and retroactively; another of EUR 242,291, of the year 2018, but another, commissioned by the Board of Housing and Solo, for a value of EUR 261,773. And why? Because Tragsa is considered an instrumental means of administration. Interestingly, in December 2018...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u98	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u99	...changed Tragsa's statutes. How curious, what a coincidence! And it matches this. We are talking about the precariousness of the employee's work, and that is why we amend the Socialist Group's proposal on three important issues. First, do not outsource. It has to be the officials, archaeologists and architects of the municipalities who make the reports of the provincial services, in this case of what we're talking about. Sorry, provincial services. We believe it is essential that we urgently create squares and carry out a study of workloads and needs of the General Heritage Directorate. Enough to mistreat and despise culture, heritage and language. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u101	Good morning. The situation denounced by this non-law proposal in this particular case of the Pontevedra Heritage Service is unacceptable, but it is certainly not surprising, because consultations on work files or rehabilitation which may affect heritage goods are so difficult for the competent advisor in the field of heritage protection, because it is meaningless. There's been a two-year wait for file processing; six months for reporting or for reforming a roof; seven months for even cleaning around the property. And it's also a nonsense for the fact that you've explained to the proponent, that this kind of consultation can speed up and improve future construction and rehabilitation projects, avoiding unnecessary delays like being able to make early corrections that avoid negative reports. As a matter of fact, we must also emphasize the danger that certain subsidies may be put in place because of these delays. But it is, of course, that this concrete situation of difficulty for consultation, even though it only occurs in Pontevedra, is generalized. The lack of human resources in heritage services is widespread. Not only is there a personal need to expedite these works or rehabilitation projects or the various projects that affect heritage assets, but also sufficient resources for cataloguing or even for checking damage when any, even serious, elements of cultural heritage are produced. This proactive work is needed, and the ultimate reason is that more personal need in heritage services. There are also widespread complaints about differences in criteria in the various provincial services by heritage associations. But the question that lies at the heart of these difficulties in handling files, in this lack of personnel, is the total disillusionment of the Union with respect to the heritage, allowing that idea to be settled -- as you yourself have pointed out -- that the heritage is a shock, that the word "patrimony" appears, and that the world already seems to fall. The ultimate reason for this is the lack of staff and the lack of conception by the Board that heritage is a value. And it's still not developed that catalogue of cultural heritage. It would certainly be an element that would contribute to the disclosure of these assets, the rules. Until relatively recently, to consult the catalogued property sheets, you had to go ask them on paper, and they were almost the best kept secrets. Now we can have them available on that website of urban planning, but it seems that in the issues of heritage to Junta, when the technical means today would allow more agility, having personal - as you yourself said - trained and personal of the council to be able to expedite these files. So we support that this reinforcement has to be done and it has to be done generally, it cannot be patched; and it cannot be those externalizations of what was spoken here, to avoid, above all, the idea that heritage is a disturbance. Heritage is worth it! It's already a classic quote by George Ayán and Manolo Gago, in the book of Inheritors by force, which pointed out that I don't know if it was in Bóveda or in the beginning a woman said that the mummies put them in the block at night to bother. This is the conception, the idea that the heritage bothers. Man, you won't bother! If there's no service with trained staff and sufficient personnel that can agitate matters and show that heritage is a value, which is the wealth of a country and has it in the Union. Watch out! We're not going to reveal the enormous heritage that the country has, which at best fosters even the national consciousness of Galicia. Careful, this is a problem! We therefore support this non-law proposal and call on that need to change policies in its entirety.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u102	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u103	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. In fact, not only do we put them in the block at night, and we have the fault of having the country set up assets to disturb, but we also have the blame for the demographic crisis, as everybody knows, for the militants of the Nationalist Block of Wales. Everyone knows we've been behind that negative crop balance in this country for over thirty years. Today in the control session to the president -- it's inevitable to make a previous comment -- we've already lived one more chapter, we're going up one step on the level. Today we had the opportunity to see the president of the board deny the reports of the Galician Union. We've already exceeded a level more of the disarray and the lack of respect for this House and we've seen the president of the board deny the reports of the Galego Demographic Observatory that I'm going to read to them... because I think it's impossible...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u104	No, sorry, listen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u105	Just, just...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u106	No, give me the sheet, I'll pass it to the Members, please. Give it to me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u107	No, I don't want to turn the presidency into a paper repository...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u108	No, to get to the point. Let's get to the point. Pass it to me and then I'll pass it to them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u109	I believe that the Rules of Procedure of the House have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u110	Let's get to the point. The debate has been clarified.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u111	...that at any time of the debate I may request the reading of a document.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u112	Yes, but it's related to the subject. Let's get to the point. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u113	It's related to the topic...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u114	Let's get to the point, Mrs. Rodil, please. Quiet, please. I'm sorry, Mrs. Prado, I'm talking to Mrs. Rodil and I'm telling her what I'm telling you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We'll take this quietly, it's not to complicate it. Mrs. Rodil, please, on the matter. Let's talk about the heritage, which is not a minor matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u115	It's not a minor matter, actually...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u116	Let's go.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u117	...no problems...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u118	Quiet, please. Quiet. Quiet. Quiet. Quiet, please, we'll take this quietly. [[Murmurs.]] There's little time left for this to end. Calm down, please. [[Murmurs.]] It's okay, it's okay. Soon there's some relaxation, quiet. Let's go easy. It's still full of today, but we'll go quietly. Time will be compensated, Mrs. Rodil, don't worry about it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u119	I'm going to the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u120	To the estate, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u121	I think Mrs. Prado wants to talk, so...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u122	Whenever you want. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u123	Unless you can do it, Mrs. Prado. Going to the question, about the situation that hits the provincial departments of the Directorate-General for Heritage. Here the question was focused on by the Socialist Party in relation to the recently approved entry into force of the Rehabilitation Act. We, from BNG, have been very critical of that normative text since you entered for your processing in this House. We have stated on many occasions that we do not agree with that text in which it has to do with, above all, with regard to heritage, because it requires flexibility in that language, a lack of control or a removal of control mechanisms for the protection of property, which there are many in our country, even some that have a high catalogue and a high level of protection. The truth is that the collapses in the services of the General Heritage Directorate have taken place since the last few years and are primarily motivated by the lack of staff, which has already been exposed here too. But instead of trying to solve or shorten the problem by means of equipping - as is required in the initiative - the material, human and economic resources needed those services in order to cope with the workload they have, the way in which the Galician and the People's Party chose to continue to reduce, with legal reforms, the control and the obligation to apply for authorisations — I insist — even in many goods that have high protection. And not only does it affect those goods that want to be rehabilitated or those that want to do a work, but that lack of personnel is also jeopardizing the heritage assets we find in our country, for example, in the mountains. In fact, as early as 2018, Galicia's own forestry association reported that this lack of personnel in the provincial departments of the General Heritage Directorate was becoming a trap or making it impossible to develop, for example, the work of roses or sprawling that they had as their objective to act in the fire prevention work. That leads, on many occasions, not to the proper authorizations, to the flexibility or to the disappearance of the mechanisms of control that the law provides, and that is jeopardizing in many cases, in many of the mountains of our country, the heritage goods that we find in them, which are many. We are going to support, from the BNG, the initiative that the Socialist Party brings today. We consider it to be a central issue, in order to be able to ensure the proper protection of assets, to be provided with the necessary resources and staff that this Directorate-General for Heritage needs, especially in order to deal with the work of control and proper authorization to protect and guarantee the protection of the heritage that we find in our country. I insist that not only on the rehabilitation or recovery of assets, but also on other tasks that are seriously jeopardizing our heritage. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Gómez Salgado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u125	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Rodil, you mustn't be pleased with the speech of your spokesman who comes to haunt your intervention. All right, it's good that it's two instead of one that has to override the president's argument. Mrs. Cuña, and the same thing you could tell the BNG, the 4th Commission didn't happen to you. You went through the Commission, took the arguments they brought at the meeting of the Director General of Heritage, but you didn't listen to the Director General of Heritage, who fully explained the criteria for which it was implemented and put in place that staff reinforcement. And other aspects, because you weren't listening, you were just intervening and exposing your position. It is true that the Heritage offices — and we know this issue, it is not foreign to us — that of Pontevedra, in particular, has an important volume of files in processing — between 2,000 and 2,200 —, many of them of an extraordinary complexity and related to the rehabilitation of historic buildings, which has sometimes caused them to accumulate, indeed, dossiers, to register some of the delays of several months, not always due to reasons attributable to the Administration, but in some case due to the delay in responding to the demands made by the Administration itself to the prosecutors. That's why the Culture Council strengthened the staff of these offices, in addition to additional support from Santiago to resolve some of the most complex files. You're here complaining that there's a delay, but you're not in favour of the Council taking the necessary steps to speed up and speed up the processing of these files. The current reality is that the vast majority of Pontevedra's files are first solved within a short period of two-three months; in fact, they are now solving files in April and May. And only a small percentage suffer a delay due, first of all, to their complexity, but also, ladies and gentlemen, because of the administrative procedures and the important heritage to be retained in the province, which makes every performance to be analysed in detail. The Council of Culture, this parliamentary group and what the People's Party represent, is a fervent defender of the Greek heritage, and I believe it has proved it in fact. In fact, you can set examples, Mrs Pierres, of particular files which suffer certain delays — that I will not deny them — and sometimes take several months — they are the least. In the search for compliance with the rule and in the field of heritage protection, certain heritage and cultural controls are required, which means much longer and more complex reports and jobs than usual. We know that these timely situations lead to delays in the execution of the works and actions posed by individuals and institutions, so certain measures have already been taken in the Pontevedra office, including those mentioned above. But, ladies and gentlemen, the recent Act 1/2019, of 22 April, of rehabilitation, regeneration and urban renewal, which entered into force on 22 May, which prioritizes the first objective of agitating the files of the Greek cultural heritage, simplifying the procedures for rehabilitating, or extending the assumptions for the granting of direct licences by the councils, or other measures. Or do you think municipal technicians aren't skilled, they're not appropriate, to solve these issues? I don't know if you leave it in a very good place, when you refuse this possibility from the municipalities, the municipal technicians. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, with the implementation of this law, the Directorate-General for Heritage ceases to invest about 40% of the times when it has so far been competent. Otherwise, Heritage will stop intervening around 3,500 files. We understand that the efforts made in the Pontevedra office, but the implementation of the measures taken in the Rehabilitation Act of May 2018, will resolve and normalize the situation in this office. And since then, we understand that the measures that you propose and that you demand from the Council are already taking, towards the correct attention and improvement of the equalization of processing times...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u126	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u127	...two files. that, in the specific case of the Pontevedra office, they currently have -- and are statistical data -- an average resolution of two to three months. Ladies and gentlemen, we're not going to support your proposal because we think you're working on that line. We're going to propose they let the law act, which has been in force for two months. We believe that it is the solution, which, together with the measures taken by the Council, will be the solution on this line. Almost proposing the amendment of En Marea — I don't know if I am allowed the license of the high tide and the low tide — which says that they study and let themselves act in order to evaluate the operation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u128	It's a chascarrillo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u129	We ask them to stop acting.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u130	It's a chascarrillo that doesn't have any...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u131	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u132	Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u133	On the one hand, of course, thanks to the support of the BNG Group and the Joint Group and to the amendments made by the En Marea Group. It is true that we will not accept a priori all those that propose us, but if we consider how it adds the reference to that issue of a study report on workloads and needs of the General Heritage Directorate, which seems to us to be a good initiative. I think it's also important to abandon the bad habits, those that lead us to think that success is in the axillization that seeks to reduce the 12 months of average processing just a year ago and peak that have come to suffer from the Pontevédres service files, and that it is satisfied with a reduction to five or six months, which is what moves me most of the fellow technical and promoters and fellows. And even if it were the three-four, or even the two-thirds you commented, Mr. Gómez, because it might be an improvement but I don't think it's enough. From our group, we believe that we have to be much more ambitious and aspire to have enough axile services to be able to report in times that do not exceed the month of waiting. And why do I say so? Because we remember that this procedure always adds to the municipal license itself, and that the urban issue always runs in parallel with this type of report, which makes delays particularly serious. If we add two-three months to another two-three months of the municipalities to a base project, a run project, etc., we're finally in processing for more than a year always, always. To avoid this, they must be provided with sufficient personnel and sufficient electronic means. We need to push for transparency and improved traceability of the files, with the implementation of a digital platform that allows for monitoring and speeding up processing. This instance which before I wanted to teach you is absolutely inflammable in the times that run, absolutely inflammable. I expose and ask, and we have a paraffin to explain everything that affects a heritage asset. I don't think it's immeasurable. And to prevent this problem from going on, I don't think we have to rely on the adoption without more than one law or rehabilitation. You ask us for faith in the law, Mr. Gómez, but I would like to remind you here that we already have a background, which was the Cultural Heritage Act itself, which has already been affixed by the signing of agreements with the municipalities that had special plans adapted to the Land Law to make use of their competences in the issue of reports that affected the heritage, and thus also the provincial service's workload. And how many municipalities were motivated by that measure? Two in all of Galicia. And the rest, how many were motivated to generate and update their own plans? Sky! That's why you had to change that law and extend the deadlines to five years, precisely so that these special plans can be drafted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u134	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u135	I also want to remember, by the way, how the Marin Town Hall, in which the People's Party has ruled for years, has not taken a single step to develop that special plan demanded for years. A council which is also assuming a burden of work to the Provincial Heritage Service of Pontevedra near 20 percent of the files. It is a clear example that the inability and lack of means of municipalities to assume competence is also a problem that we must face.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u136	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u137	Help to provide more and better services to the municipalities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u139	...to avoid, precisely...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u140	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u141	...that in the great towns and cities of Greece...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u142	Thank you. Your time is up. [[Applause]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Julia Torregrosa Sañudo and two other Members, on the demand to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the price of housing rental
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u143	There are amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego and the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u144	To formulate the non-law proposition, Mrs. Torregrosa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u145	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. This initiative that we bring to the House today is again the denunciation of a situation that is not a chronic and customary one is not an urgent problem and an absolute priority in the political strategies that the Government of the Union must assume. The right to housing — which is a right recognized in article 47 of our Constitution and which the Statute of Self-Government therefore obliges the Government of the Union to guarantee by putting all means within its grasp — is ever further away from the horizon provided by the Government. The housing situation is critical in our country. In the second half of last year — only in the second half — 797 evictions were executed in Galicia because they failed to meet the terms of the lease contracts, 12% more than in the same period of the previous year, according to the statistics of the Judiciary. In the whole of the year, the evictions of leased floors assumed nearly three-quarters of the launches practiced by the Greek judges, while continued the decline of the defeats resulting from a hypothetical execution. Why? It's clear why. Because there are fewer people who can buy a market housing and need a rental housing. The gap between rent prices and wages increases steadily. The data handled by the U.S. Vivenda Observatory, drawn up from nearly 30,000 housing contracts, are alarming. Since 2016 the average monthly amount of contracts has increased by 31% in the Coruña, 27% in Vigo, 15.3% in Santiago, and 21.5% in Pontevedra. According to the figures from the Galician Youth Observatory for the first quarter of this year, of the 317,000 young people and young gales between 16 and 29 years old, only 114,600, 36.1%, are busy. Of the busy, 70% work full-time, 2,000 less than in the first quarter of last year. The rate of time for this collective is set in addition to 59.5%; those that do not exceed EUR 1,000 per month account for about 30% of the total. With an average wage of 900 euros, the young Greek can hardly face a rent whose cost is around 400 euros. There are therefore 13,375 Welsh and Welsh registered in the Register of Protested Housing Applicants of the Union, 85% of whom requested rental housing; of them, 4,083 under 35, which are divided by provinces; especially in Pontevedra province, 1,757, followed by the Coruña, while in Lugo and Ourense there is less demand. What is the situation that you propose as a Government? The Galego de Vivenda e Solo Institute has a public park for renting 3,500 homes, which are all occupied. The only option of getting an adjudication from these floors is that there's some vacancy left, or that the board expands its lease offer. We were talking before an application of 13,385 Welsh and Welsh on a waiting list. If we talk about protected housing built, in 2017 only 12 were built throughout the community, and in 2018 only 8. It has nothing to do with the crisis. If we comment on it with other autonomous neighboring communities, in Asturias, 48 dwellings; Extremadura, 215; the Basque Country, 385; Navarra, 192. We speak of other communities with a similar population, but with government investment and policies that are very different from those we have here in Galicia. There is another way, yet, for those who have difficulty facing the payment of the rent, aside from waiting for a public housing: the aid granted under the housing plan to cover the rent costs. Although they are addressed to all those who meet certain income limits, there are three preferred groups: families numerous, aged 65 and under 35. These grants, which were provided within the state plan with 106 million euros for the Galician community, are also short of high demand. There were more than 12,000 applicants, but the board only has budget to grant about 4,200. In addition, their concession is delayed; at present they have only stolen 20% of the available economic departure from the beneficiaries. But his propaganda policy has not stopped all this time. Already in 2015, the Star Plan 2015-2018, with measures called you as a social agenda, was the Empty Housing Program, designed to allocate uninhabited real estate to social rental by disadvantaged families. In this case, Junta chose the model she likes most, to throw balloons out again, using an agreement with Fegamp, again taking responsibility for the policies that should be assumed to assess and, in case of its failure, modify, as was the previous program, directly to the municipalities. Two years after his start-up, the project had only incorporated 16 floors and only 7, not to mention that some municipalities explicitly refused to participate in this model because it did not relate to his point of view at all. Nevertheless, in September 2018 the Popular Group presented an initiative in this House to extend the vigil of the empty housing program in collaboration with Fegamp and to include in the same new measures that stimulate the incorporation of housing where they are most necessary, rather than, as it would play, an evaluation of the program and change it if needed. The empty housing park in Galicia hasn't changed since its 2011 census, about 300,000 homes according to the INE count, 18.6%, which is the highest in the state, where in large cities it accumulates 30% of the total. You know that the U.S. Blackstone fund, which in recent years has been taking advantage of the gangs that left the crisis to become, thanks to the purchase of the People's portfolio, in the country's first private real estate, only surpassed by Sareb, who still manages 37,179 million assets from the rescued entities. Truly, a scandal. Faced with the domain position that still exerts the bad bank in the country as a whole, in Galicia the so-called "Voitre Funds" are already leaders in the real estate sector. According to estimates of financial sources, the four largest firms: Blackstone, Cerberus, Lone Star and Apollo control together 2,500 properties in the community; not only inhabit, but also industrial ships, commercial sites or land, compared to 1,500 in the hands of Sareb and the thousand who own the large financial institutions that have not been rescued: Santander, BBVA or Sabadell-Galego among others. That's why we ask again in this House that the Board take the urgent, necessary and necessary measures to act on the empty housing park, activate and evaluate current policies, providing them with effective effective budgets that solve this drama, which is one more factor in valuing the human desertification suffered by our country. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u146	Thank you very much, Mrs. Torregrosa. Mr Bará Torres has the floor by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u147	Thank you, President. I was looking for the initiative because I thought I was wrong about the proposal brought here by the debate, which, if I do not understand correctly, is the limitation of the price of housing by a measure that the Government of the State must adopt. Well, let's get to the point. The reality is -- as it has been said -- that we live a real situation of social emergency in relation to housing, which is one of the cruelest and most bitter faces of this so-called crisis, that what has caused is a real policy of rights and incomes of the working class, and has done what should be an accessible and affordable good, like housing, if it becomes a real privilege within the reach of only a minority. A right thus recognized in all legal texts, beginning with its sacred Spanish Constitution, becoming object of speculation and business, with these absolutely astronomical and pornographic figures increasing the price of living in recent years, as they debase themselves, devalue and reduce wages. This is really shocking. And with speculative operations they're also doing, there's a shortage in the offer of housing for rent. For example, in the Santiago area the information that the student was being expelled to the surrounding municipalities, to the periphery, for the artificial increase in housing prices as a result of the phenomenon of tourist housing. So, how can you cope with this situation? For it is clear how it can be done, and so it has already been done in other places: through public housing policies that involve intervention in the market and at the price of housing. But they have to be comprehensive policies, they can't be partial measures, they can't be palliative measures, they can't be patches, they can't be measures to be right as the People's Party does. We have to go to the root of the problem, change the playing field and avoid these speculative performances of true votres, which they seek to do business because of the suffering of a social majority. And that also happens, of course, to economic policies. It's economy, of course, it's economy. That is, with decent wages, with quality employment, with work rights for the popular classes, for the working class, so they can access those goods like housing. And, of course, everything also goes through greater public investment in housing, not as in the Spanish State and Galicia, which we are in the queue of Europe in this matter, as it is known. En Marea's proposal is for a measure to limit the housing price. We understand that this isolated measure can cause the opposite effect. We must be careful, because the experiences in Europe in this area are not clear about the effectiveness of such a measure. A measure of this kind has just been approved in Portugal, we don't know the result, but we do know the results of these measures, for example in Berlin or Paris, which have not caused the desired effect, because there is a contraction in the offer of housing and that can lead to an increase in prices. Where this measure worked was where it was part of an integral housing action plan, where there are very advanced social housing policies for almost a century ago, for example in Austria, in Vienna. In fact, in Vienna it is controlled, limited, the price of housing, but in Vienna there is a huge public park of social housing in renting, with more than 220,000 public housing and a cost of 600 million euros per year in housing by the Vienna Council, which is higher than the expenditure of the Galician Union in a whole legislature. With such measures, it is possible to act. So you have to be careful with these kinds of measurements, which can have a great media effect, but they have to be analyzed and studied with a lot of caution. That's why the BNG proposes two complementary amendments to the one it proposes in Marea. The first is to ask Galician Union to create a public housing park for rent that is a real plan, not that fiasco of the empty housing plan, which we all know was a real failure. This park, for the BNG, has to be made up of public promotion housing, but also because of the mobilization of this empty housing that is in the hands of the bad bank, the worst bank and the Voitre funds, of the international investment funds as mentioned here, which are speculating and doing business at the expense of people's suffering and need. We also propose another measure, which is to end the sociomis, which is a true cancer, which is the cause of this explosion in the bubble of real estate speculation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u148	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u149	They had 2,200 million benefits in 2018.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u150	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u151	So we have to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u152	Thank you very much, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u153	...to convert rights into facts and ensure access to housing for the entire population, especially for the population that most needs it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u154	Thank you very much. The Socialist Parliamentary Group of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Pierres López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u155	Thank you, President, again. Good morning to all of you. The truth is, Mrs. Torregrosa, if I wonder if the Socialist Party is in favour of a regulation of rental contracts that addresses the subject of prices, I will say yes, and, of course, that we are in favour and also very concerned. And if you ask me if the Government of the State is in favour of taking action on this, I will also tell you that it is. I'm telling you because the measures to address the price issue have already begun, and it is not reduced to a single measure, are several, and of course, cross-sectional. It's a shame, in addition, that you didn't join us from the beginning in taking those steps with us, and that measures that are now more firmly protected by the tenants had to wait until March of this year to be implemented. I insist, there's no single method of controlling housing prices. And I'm not telling you, I didn't tell you the Socialist Party, I told you all the studies and experiences on housing and behaviours of the international housing markets. In fact, in those countries - as Mr Bará has already pointed out - in which you have been betting on limiting prices, as you suggest, in cities like Berlin, New York or Paris, experience has not been all the positive that you might expect. They based their model not on the whole territory, but on the establishment of tense areas of the real estate market, in which the rise of income was limited. In these areas, the public authorities fixed an average reference rental, which could not be increased in more than 10% in cases, in cities, and 20% in others, on that average referent. But the reality is that the laws ended up showing scraps that allowed brothels and even, perhaps the most serious, causing the reduction of the park offered, which generates, it fits, an even greater problem. And these are precisely the consequences that concern the Government of the State, and much, because it is necessary to spend time analyzing all the models and to see what the results of each of them have been and how they would respond in our country. Because I suppose he'll agree with us that we can't afford to take measures that can not only improve the situation, but even make it worse. So since responsibility, we'll work to implement and bet on the best model possible. And to analyze our context, which is neither Paris nor New York nor Berlin, we must first have data, and data that enables us to obtain the true behaviour of the market. That's why already in Royal Decree Law 7/2019 measures were proposed to assess with precise information where, how and as soon as prices are increasing. Thus, by the end of the year and the beginning of 2020 we should already count on the resolution determining the reference index system of the housing rental price. And we will be able to meet them by census sections, by neighborhoods, by districts, by municipalities, by provinces and also by autonomous communities, something that, as you will understand, seems the indispensable step forward in price control and to contemplate even a limitation, something that we do not believe today, frankly, that is the best way of price control. And we have no confidence in that limitation because we believe that this problem should be worked from several fronts, as I already told you. Mainly, placing decisive and important stakes on the increase in the public housing park, favoring coordinated work with the autonomous communities and with the municipalities. And we don't say it, many experts from both the national and international levels say it: more supply and affordable price naturally spreads the rental housing market. That is why, in our amendment, we point out that we need to ask the Government of Galicia for its involvement so that in our area it will be implemented with the utmost speed to make public housing available at affordable prices, something which we are continuously demanding and which is also mandated by this Parliament. The Government of the State, while continuing to do its duties, broadening the measures of the decree last March and presenting in advance even its programme document on housing for this mandate; a programme that already envisages, among other matters, the development of a new state housing law; the impulse of a state plan for housing rehabilitation with the mobilization of EUR 400 million; the strengthening of the role of SEPES and ICO, supporting and promoting the creation of 20,000 affordable public housing housing and which are currently under way; a Sareb Action Plan for the use of housing for social rentals, developing a national plan to promote youth empowerment or a strategy of sym-fogarism, increasing funds...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u156	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u157	...to combat this phenomenon—and end—. All are measures that revolve around the indispensable increase of the public housing park...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u158	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u159	...and at affordable prices,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u160	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u161	...as the most effective way to control housing market prices.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u162	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u163	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u164	Thank you very much. Mr Rodríguez Estévez has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u165	Thank you, President. Good day to all and to all. If today's rental difference between Galicia and Portugal is already remarkable, as you can imagine from the next month, when the new rental regulations adopted in the neighbouring country come into force. That's a government that looks at its inhabitants, not the Government of Galician Union, who governs who rules. How does Portugal do? For Portugal imposes tops at the price of renters. How? Depending on the location of the property — it is not the same price of rent in the city of Vigo as in Malpica de Bergantinos — and also depending on the state of the property and its size. But it's just that, above all, they're going to give tax incentives to the most disadvantaged popular classes. And the thing doesn't end there, since renters themselves or tenants can also receive tax benefits. But not only Portugal cares about its inhabitants, at the other end of the peninsula, we have Catalonia, which also brings us back again. In May of this year, they passed a decree of urgent measures to contain the price of the rent, which obliges that in certain areas income obtained from the rent does not exceed by more than 10% the average cost of the area, thus preventing owners and owners from updating the income during the supervision of the contract. What do we do while we're here? For data from the Vivenda Observatory of the Union say that since 2016 the average monthly amount of contracts has grown by 31% in the Coruña, 27% in Vigo, 15.3% in Compostela, or 21.5% in Pontevedra. As Mrs. Torregrosa said very well, many families have problems, and they have to give up basic services as it can be to fill the heating tank to warm up in the winter or give up a healthy diet, to cope with the payments of housing rents. Data from the Ministry of Development. The prices of the real estate that are for sale are also rising remarkably, already four years on a continuous rise. But, of course, Junta does things in half and finds that the demand for help to the rent overflows her forecasts. That may be called a lack of management. Renting a flat to the present day is more expensive every day; renting a flat to the present day is more difficult, more complicated. The higher tendency to rent is due to a decrease in the purchasing capacity of the families themselves, to the obstacles banks place to grant mortgages and to the increase in their own labour mobility, because we also have more and more precarious jobs. With the increasingly expensive rental prices, many are the Galicians and many of the Greeks who have difficulty in costing monthly income, so that the star measure of this new housing plan that came out from the ministry, 2018-2021, in collaboration with the autonomous communities, were the help of the rent. The Board opened the deadline for submitting applications a year ago, on July 31 of last year it closed, and six months later it had not yet resolved the call. The reasons that he raised to Junta were that many requests had been made to the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo, almost 12,000 applications — if I am not mistaken — for 4,000 planned aids, that is threefold. But the German Government moves marks and introduces more restrictive criteria, if any, of the income that it made the Government itself. The monthly income summit in this call set the Union at EUR 1,340, compared with the 1,111 that collected the State Housing Plan. Of course, since we have the highest income in the state here, we can afford it. This non-law proposal will overlimit the price of housing rent, and from the Joint Parliamentary Group we will support it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. You have the floor, for the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Castilian Broz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, good morning. Mrs. Torregrosa, I assure you that I had to look twice at the agenda and the initiative to find out whether I was wrong or not, because I thought this was not the agenda, until Mr. Bará enlightened me, because he came to say what I was thinking at the time. You're up to the end even, which ends with the proposal, you haven't read your proposal. You don't agree with her anymore? Take it off! It's the best you can do. I'll read, ladies and gentlemen, what the proposition says. The proposal, after a explanatory statement, says: "The Greek Parliament urges the Galician Parliament to request the Government of the State to limit the price of renters in view of the characteristics of the area and the properties of the real estate." And it goes over the limit. Here he talks about Portugal and he talks about a series of things you didn't mention. Of course, this initiative happened what happened. First they did one in May, where they used to look like Paris and Berlin. The price limit system in Paris and Berlin, the Alur law or the German price stabilization law, one is in the Constitutional Court — the German Court — and that of Paris, which has been revoked, does not work. By the way, the two initiatives of social democratic governments, Mrs. Pierres, social democratic measures, were a real failure. And then comes Portugal. It immediately presents this because there is a Twitter by Mr. Pablo Iglesias, automatic, as announced to the approval of the law of Portugal, which says: "To guarantee the right to housing and to curb speculation of rental prices require courageous policies. The progressive government of Portugal marks the way and it is urgent to limit the abusive prices of rent." And they come here and even, Mr. David, have you read the measures of Portugal? There are no limits there, and unless the Joint Group now embraces liberal policies... it better embraces liberal policies! [[Murmurs.]] Indirect incentives to reduce prices, but no limits. There's a price mark... yes, I show it whenever I want because I read it too. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But, of course, we have to tell the truth and not trust some newspapers that, following Podemos and the Twitter of Pablo Iglesias, quickly sold that Portugal was limiting prices. I mean it totally! Portugal does and tries to make a genuine copy of the junkheap program. By the way, you... yes, listen... listen and then think! [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Listen, please. [[Murmurs.]] First listen and then think. Because, of course, it's very easy to talk about what you don't know... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u168	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u169	...or the manipulations. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Portugal sets a standard price per area: Porto, a 3-bedroom apartment, 1,200 euros. Anyone who rents for less than EUR 1,200 will have a total exemption in the income obtained by the rental. I mean, just like here. I don't know if they know that in Spain there is 60% of the income exemption obtained by rental, part of them from the Galician Union; part of that 60% is from the Galician Union funds. And then what brings the extras? That kind of contract will give them multi-risk home insurance so that they don't ruin the tenant's home, and a cash guarantee insurance. Plan of dwellings of the Galician Union, Program of empty dwellings, to which, by the way, all left-wings opposed themselves radically so it didn't work. [[Murmurs.]] It turns out that the IRPF exemptions exist in Spain, not a total of 60%, but help the owners to reform the homes of 8,000 euros — which does not have Portugal, but there is, here, a limit on the rent that becomes a social rent. So, for example, in Porto there were 1,200, that housing in Vigo would be 350 euros maximum, and they would have multi-risk insurance and payment guarantee. How does the progressive Portugal programme differ from the conservative Galician programme? [[Murmurs.]] Tell me! [[Applause]] What's the difference? That in Portugal there seems to be a serious right that will support, and it is possible that it will work — it has to be seen — and in Galicia what happened was that the governments of the main councils, who had to lead and support this program of the Union — the Coruña, Santiago, Pontevedra, Vigo, etc. — where there are more problems, progressive governments, went against entirely. [[Murmurs.]] They went against it! [[Murmurs.]] Yes, yes, they went against completely. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u170	Quiet. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u171	Also, but Ourense has fewer problems, look at you, and if he got added up. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yeah, but why don't you make no contributions to improve that program if you need to... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u172	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u173	...and don't boycott it? Finished, Mr. President, I'm just going to say one thing. I very much appreciate the amendments to the BNG and the PSOE, which are exactly the same as the initiative...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u174	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u175	...that he brought himself to this last plenary session and that we approved, by the way, with our votes in favour...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u176	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u177	...of PSOE and BNG. But you don't bring anything...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u178	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u179	...it's the same as it was.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u180	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u181	Of what the Galician Union already knows, by the way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u182	Thank you very much. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Torregrosa Sañudo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u183	Thank you very much. First of all, to begin with, to thank both the Mixed Group and Mr Bará and Mrs. Pierres. What do you say we don't already know how the Joint Government works? He never answers as if he were a government. You make a further opposition here, within Parliament, not assuming your policies. He spent time talking about Portugal, about what I, as well as I said, didn't even talk about it, but if you want to talk about it. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u184	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u185	I think an executive should take care of this situation that has to be classified as very serious. So, returning to the themes of examples from Portugal — which is not the only one — if I am not mistaken, France — to Macron France — proposed now to begin this summer, until 2023, to recover the program that had control over renters in France and leave it in the hands of the municipalities who wanted to join. We also have a different point rating program in the Netherlands. We have in Catalonia now a program that will start with Barcelona at the experimental level and that will be a pioneer in the Spanish state to control a problem that is a very serious problem. The other day the House was brought here precisely the subject of the improper occupation of housing. And I say to myself, why do people unduly occupy housing, will it be because they have no right to housing? How can people be denied a right that they have by the Constitution and that the Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia and the Government as last responsible have to guarantee? How can you deny it? How can you, as the representative of the Government of the United Nations on this subject, spend time talking about the situation of other countries and throwing balloons out? Think about it, as always. Keep an account of your policies. Why do we say they don't work? Because it's a fact. Because they don't run the budget because their priorities aren't where they have to be. That's why we're here claiming over and over again, from different initiatives, something that's basic, which is the right to housing. And I think we can agree on this subject that you can serve external models more or less, but we're talking about a lot of countries all over Europe, and another autonomous community like Catalonia, which is taking this in front of the benefits of the Voitre funds, in the future...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u186	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u187	...of the benefits of people who want to do business with housing, and because I think it's very important. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u188	Thank you very much. Let us now move on to the next initiative. Non-legislative proposal by the G.P. of En Marea, on the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and two other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in connection with the invitations to assist its members to the tourists
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u189	This motion for a non-law has tabled two amendments: the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego and the Socialist Parliamentary Group of Galicia. [[G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. Xosé Luís Bará Torres, through his spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, presented to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-law proposal.Additional amendment.After the resolution of the non-law proposal, the following text should be added: "In addition, Parliament urges the Board of Representatives of Galicia to promote a law prohibiting tourists from being a spectacle of animal abuse and alien to the Galician cultural tradition.As a result, Parliament agrees as a resolution to express the rejection of the towers and to the Government of the State and parliamentary groups of Congress to promote a law prohibiting the tournads.]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u190	To formulate the non-law proposition has the floor Mr. Cal Ogong.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u191	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Within a month, the Taurino show is celebrated in Pontevedra, in the bull market, where the previous years, in particular last year, attended representing the Council of Galicia Mr. Rueda, Vice President of Galicia, and he was also the current councillor of the Rural Environment. Today we bring an initiative that seeks that this will never happen again. It has a clear and simple objective: that the administration, that the Galician Union should stop supporting shows where animal torture is being inflicted. That the Council of Galicia, the administration that represents all the Greeks and the Greeks, does not represent us by supporting cruel shows with animals like the tourdas, which make Mr. Fernández Prado a great deal of grace. Today we do not ask that they be banned or restricted, we are not asking that the bulls cease to be an exception in the Animal Welfare Act, that they be protected in the same way as any other animal by the Greek law. We have already manifested ourselves contrary to this exceptionality of bulls in the law; exceptionalness made by PP with the pilgrimage excuse based on a supposed "tradiation and culture." Because, first of all, in Galicia there is no tradition of tournades, as we all know and how all the data indicates. And, if by any chance, and in case it was a tradition, we should also walk towards the eradication of any savage and cruel tradition with animals, as if they were eradicating all the traditions that were wild and cruel with animals. For you, what is art, tradition and culture, animals are causing enormous agony and suffering; it's an upheaval, a humiliation of animals, which causes enormous suffering. It's important that you see it because I know that when you're in a bull market, you don't see the suffering of the animal, and of course they don't hear it. You listen to bands of music, you hear a lot of joy and a lot of party, but in the square, in the sand, you hear an animal agonizing. This is the reality of the spectacle of animal torture, which is the tourdas. As I say, today we do not ask for the end of this exceptionality. That's what we've done on other occasions and we'll keep doing it until this is over. Today, what we ask for is a very simple thing, which is that the administration should stay out of the way. I mean, if the PP doesn't want to take the necessary step of walking towards putting an end to these cruel shows, at least it doesn't help, it doesn't cooperate and it doesn't dynamic the same, which I think is the least we have to go out in Galicia in the middle of the 21st century. That the administration does not support animal abuse in any of its forms, that the Council of Galicia does not support the animal abuse of traditions of cultures with which most of the Greeks and Galicians are not identified, for many efforts that have been made to unify and indoctrinate in the unique cultural thought, and however much they continue to devote themselves to today's efforts by the People's Party in which these traditions, which are alien to the Galician culture and the people of Galicia, if they continue to practice in our territory with that so unpleasant tufo to "those dark years." For many years, it was the norm that the administration supported financially, through grants and, above all, the purchase of tickets and distribution of tickets, so as to take people also to the squares and continue with the unique cultural indoctrination, but also with the presence support. And we see in Pontevedra square over the last few years as Mr. Rajoy attended with Mr. Feijóo, Mr. Louzán and Rueda, we see Mr. Rajoy very proud by raising up a bullfighter's beaut — I don't know what his name is — and... I don't care what his name is, I'm worried about the bulls, the animals. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And last year we see the Vice President of Galicia supporting this torture show, and that's what we want to avoid, that this doesn't happen again. Today there are now exceptions to institutional support in Galicia for the tourdas, which the content of the results in the places where the support was withdrawn all points to what is still keeping them alive. We have the case of the Coruña, where at the time that the Taurine fair was no longer institutionally supported, the fair ended, because it could not be held for itself, because citizenship has no interest in these kinds of shows, because it is not tradition in Galicia. We have the case of Pontevedra, where it is increasingly difficult, and this year it has already reduced the fair to only two days, reaching the levels of the 1980s and arguing economic issues. We also see how in Pontevedra for ten years has begun a mobilization, initiated by Pontevedra, which continues to organize tours outside Pontevedra, which is growing every year, has more support, and this year has one hundred and fifteen collectives and associations supporting, and last year there were thousands of people, of Pontevedras and Pontevedras, who we went out to demand the end of this cruel show, while the Galician Union was supporting the show within the bull market. And we also see what are called smaller shows — chapels, alleys and these kinds of activities — as these are also decreasing in Galicia. Last year only two, nothing else: one in Valga and another in Sarria, and in addition Sarria's failure was a huge failure that didn't interest anyone. The touradas are in decay because society advances and rejects animal abuse. We have data from Galicia, the Survey on cultural habits and practices that relatively regularly publish the Ministry of Culture, Education and Sport, which is not suspected of anti-taurinism. And evidence shows that in the period 2014-2015 - the last study - only 0.3 percent of the Greek citizenship declares to attend a Tauromachic event, of which 0.2 percent corresponds to the tourists themselves. This is the interest of the tourdas in the territory of Galicia. In recent years, the sequence was as follows: nine Taurine shows held in 2014, seven in 2015, four in 2016, four in 2017 and three in 2018. Evolution is evident: citizenship is increasingly less interested in these events, and only the interest of the People's Party remains. Galicia, Best Without Touradas also picked up 377,000 signatures this year against the bull races in Galicia. The data is very clarifying. The reality shows that the Galician Union intends to keep us black and white against what society demands and what society is interested in, and denies the progress of a society that is more respectful of animals. We have also seen it with the celebration of the fox hunt, in which the Galician Union supported this bloody spectacle, also totally rejected by the citizenry, anachronistic, which has already practically no country. Not to watch and not to support this kind of event is something no one is going to recriminate the People's Party. It is clear that there is no support for citizenship, that no one will worry that the Council of Galicia is not there, no one except four friends, of course. But citizenship as a whole will not recriminalize, the voters of the People's Party as a whole will not recriminalize that the People's Party does not attend these kinds of events. So the only reason why the People's Party continues to support these kinds of shows is a purely ideological issue and try to continue with that unique cultural indoctrination that has begun so many years ago. Either that, or you enjoy watching animal suffering, because it's the other possibility that there is, that it may be that the lords of the Galician Union and the members of the Government enjoy seeing how they infregate suffering from an animal. We understand that's not the reason or we expect that's not the reason. So we understand it's a purely ideological matter. Today - as I say - we do not speak of prohibiting or not prohibiting, we do not speak of regular or non-regular, unique and exclusively speaking of the fact that the Galician Union does not attend such shows, shows where humiliation, harassment and suffering are inflicted on animals. If the Galician Union is attending in addition to this year's tour in Pontevedra, it will also be supporting the babysitter that takes place at the end of the previous week, because since there is no race, they make a nursery, because if they don't remain eager, and in this nursery they are inviting to participate and attend minors. And the United Nations has already made recommendations to the Spanish State in this regard, that minors should not participate in these kinds of shows, because it is negative for their training. At the end of the week before in Pontevedra these organizers invite children to attend free of charge. That's what I'd be supporting the Galician Union. So here I leave the initiative, which is clear on this: we are not talking about prohibition, we are talking about not attending. We therefore call on the Galician Parliament to urge the Galician Council to reject invitations to attend Tauromachic events, not taking part in any of the same government members on the so-called authority stage, adopting the majority stance of the citizenship of Galicia. For me, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. Cal. Mr Bará Torres has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u193	I'm going to tell you a story that I lived in the first person. As you know, in July 1999, just 20 years ago, there was a historical milestone. And it's just that in Pontevedra after sixty years of right-wing government began to rule the Nationalist Block Galego, and there's a mayor in Pontevedra named Miguel Anxo Fernández Lores since 1999, who has been ruling for 20 years. Another historical milestone, because there's no mayor of a state capital who's been ruling for 20 years. Something must have done well Mr. Lores to keep himself in charge for so long. [[Murmurs.]] Yeah, let's talk about bulls. Well, in that government, in 1999, I was a conciliator of Culture and Party, and one of the things that most caught my attention was that we started receiving calls at the mayor's office asking for tickets for the bulls, because, of course, the People's Party already managed to leave the deal with the Taurine company. And what did BNG do? Then he ordered to stop, the invitations and tickets for the bulls were ended, they were kept there in a strong box, destroyed, and no one since that time went to the bulls at Pontevedra de moca, paid with public funds. [[Applause]] Yeah, yeah, it was like that. [[Murmurs.]] And that gave rise, for example, to a demonstration against the municipal government of Pontevedra or to a jolgory party also in the bull of San Roque shouting "Let Lores get out!"when the bull was to come out. And there Mr. Mariano Rajoy with his pure celebration. Well, yes, Lores didn't come out, Lores still rules as mayor in Pontevedra Town Hall. [[Applause]] And we did something else then, which was to eliminate the figure of the queen of the parties, who kept the People's Party for those sixty years of government on the right. Why do you know what the queens of the parties were doing? Serving the liqueurs and the pures on the stage of the authorities of the San Roque Taurine Festival; for that he was the queen of the parties. That was the conception that had the right of women's role at parties, and that was also over. But of course, the lords of the People's Party continued to go to the stage of authorities as you can see in this picture, where Mr. Rueda, Mr. Rajoy, Mr. Louzán, Mr. Feijóo and Mr. Pachi Lucas were also here in this picture of the year 2010 on the stage of officials of the Pontevedra Deputy, because the Pontevedra Deputy continued to pay the tickets so that all of you would be free to the bulls, all of you, all who were going, didn't you? — which not all go, I suppose—but all of the PP and the cabin that would go free to the bulls paid for by the Pontevedra Deputedra Depute. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows the House a folio-sized photograph.]] [[Murmurs.]] In 2015, the party was also concluded at the Pontevedra Deputy, which declared itself a province free of tours, as did the Pontevedra Council. Well, that's the reality. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And so, of course, that the People's Party had to shield with a law of the year 2012 the bulls as "inmaterial cultural heritage"; this idea occurred so that the bulls' party could be kept. Then here too, with the Act of Shows, they set up a clause of bilge guarantees so that the Town Councils did not have the ability to authorize Taurine parties, because they knew it was also a way to avoid them. And at all of this, the BNG presents an amendment for the groups and the Government of the State, but the groups that have representation in the Government of the State, to promote a law. And there's a majority enough to do it, you have to have courage simply to break down that law of the People's Party, to end this cruel and inhuman animal abuse party, the Tauromachy, which UNESCO defines as "the infamous and commercialized art of torture and killing animals in public." That's how you define in the civilized world this which you consider such a necessary party. But, in addition, it has no tradition in Galicia. Even though you've been trying to deploy it around the municipalities for years, like in Valga, in Moraña, in Sarria, the reality is that people don't want this party, they don't like it, they won't. So, what you have to do is, on the one hand, be Europeans, be civilized people, but, on the other hand, you have to do something that's very easy: you live like Greeks, like Greeks and like Greeks, you don't like tourists, and you stop attending tourists and, above all, stop financing them, stop subsidizing them, stop paying them with public funds, stop protecting them and promoting them, and so we'll take a step forward. But, really, the bottom line is, we have to have a...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u194	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u195	...legislation that prevents this cruel party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u196	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u197	...barbarbara, maltreatment. And that can be done here in Galicia and also in the State Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u198	Thank you very much. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia to Mrs Vilán Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u199	Thank you, President. I will begin my intervention by quoting Antonio Machado, who in the year 36, through his character Juan de Mairena, said the following: "The bull races (...), is this a party?, which we call national for calling him somehow not entirely inappropriate? (...) What are bull racing?, what is that Taurine hobby, that passion for a man’s bloody show sacrificing a bull, at risk of his own life? Gentlemen, and a murderer, who is not a killer, not a executioner, not a executioner, not a cruel exercise simulator, what is a killer, a sword, as fascinating as a fugitive, an agile and hard-won sacrificer of brave reins, of prayers fueled for the act of his sacrifice? If he's not a madman, will he, perhaps, a priest? It doesn't seem like it could be anything else." Since, usually, those demonstrations that call the clergy also attend — the clergy, the priests — people who are affiliated with the People's Party, for perhaps there is a connection between the clergy, the priests and the tournade world, the bulls races; that national feast of pure, charanga, pandeireta and clergy and more people who go to the stages to celebrate it, celebrating is not well known that. [[Murmurs.]] We are against any kind of free suffering. But this bill, with all due respect, seems to us to be a little short, because it's going to something very concrete, and we think we'd have to take a step further. And that's why we are presenting a substitution amendment that includes what is required in this non-law proposal, so that the Government will not subsidize any type of Tauromachical event, so as not to support it, so that it will not participate in its promotion or development, and that it will reject, in addition, the use of animals in any kind of activity that causes them harm, suffering, or that makes them subject to unnatural treatment. And it must be very clear. And you can't cheat, which is what you're doing on the part of the Government right now, which is going to vary, depending on how society evolves, because my position at least from the point of view of the envelope, although not from within the box. The Act of Welfare and Protection of Pets in 2017 expressly excluded bulls from the Act. Indeed, because bulls are not pets, it's obvious. That's why it was called pet animals; that was one of the fundamental reasons. But this law repealed another law which included bulls as wild animals in captivity, and spoke of traditional spectacles, customary celebrations with animals and the need to protect the historical and cultural heritage of Galician customs. So until 2017. They were wild animals in captivity and, moreover, they were culture. In that same year, in 2017, as it was excluded from the Act on the Protection of Pets and there was no norm where to include them, the Law on Public Shows and Recreation allowed Tauromachic Shows, but no longer speaks, no longer collects the word "culture"; it is no longer culture, apparently. But if it allows, in public shows, Tauromach shows in Galicia. But instead of doing this here by the Government, in the state, in the Congress of Deputies, the People's Party voted in favour — because it was going out unanimously — a proposal not to consider animals, which are not objects, they are not things, but like living beings who feel; not because Members say so or say so at that time, but because the scientific community says so. In Congress, bulls are living beings and are also sensitive. Well, you can't defend that they are things and at the same time allow abuse as if they were stones. You can't defend yourself to be excluded from the Animal Welfare Act, calling it "companion animals," simply saying that this is a public spectacle, as if it were the theater, for example. It is curious that we have taken initiatives on the Galego Dramatic Center, which is indeed a public spectacle, and that this is equal. You can't defend that you have to protect the minors and then say that to go to the bulls you're 12 years old. But to appeal against the Abortion Act of 2010 because sixteen-year-olds, who are not older, cannot voluntarily decide for themselves about their own body; for that there is no age. And you can't subsidise...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u200	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u201	...—now finished, President—from the Government the Tauromachic events, neither support them nor participate in their promotion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u202	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u203	We hope our amendment is accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u204	Thank you very much. The Joint Group has the floor Mr. Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u205	Thank you again, President. In addition to manifesting our total rejection of the so-called act of animal abuse alien to all popular traditions, as Mr Bará said very well, and which, as the spokesperson for En Marea, Mr Cal, counts with the rejection of the Greek social majority, because we also want to point out our suspicion that many of these acts, as may be what they are currently offering in Valga or in Sarria, could violate many of the precepts of the laws governing these types of shows, both general and autonomous laws, as can be Law 10/2017, of 27 December, of public shows and recreational activities in Galicia, as well as the specifics governing the Taurine shows. I'm going to read a poster from Franz Weber Foundation and the Free Animal Organization!, where it's said that 99.7 percent of the Greek citizenship declares in the Survey on the Most Recent Cultural Habits and Practices, conducted by the Ministry of Culture, not to attend Taurine events of any kind, showing the scarce social support that the Tauromachy receives in our country and showing the need for public authorities to be involved in the eradication of a set of practices that subject animals to cruel, unnatural and degrading treatment. Obviously, contrary to the generalized feeling of the Greeks and the Greeks. Science has shown us many years ago how animals suffer, not only physically, but also in the psychic and emotional environment, subjected to a radically furnished treatment of their natural behavior and being part of an evil called "festejo", to make fun of a minority that prefers to suffer an animal that bets for real leisure activities. These cruel events were reprobated by Parliament itself here in 2011, when an initiative unanimously adopted by the Council of Galicia called for the prohibition of access of minors — in this case, under twelve — to the so-called Taurine spectacles, in fixed or portable enclosures. A claim to which even the People's Valedor was added with a recommendation on it. We're talking about short-lived animals, parties with low security measures, and depending on the participation of alleged fans of the tourdas. Today we see how the squares that have been installed both in Valga and in Sarria because they have left much to wish for in what concerns security, municipal subsidies, etc. The decisive part of the non-law proposal, namely to "reject invitations to attend Tauromachic events, not participating in the same no government member on the so-called authority stage, adopting the majority stance of the citizenship of Galicia", of course we will support it. We would also like to see the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block be accepted, because we see that it completes, and very much, the proposal not of law. And to finish, if the People's Party does not support this non-law proposition, then you will be the protagonists of this Spain who portrayed Berlanga in La Scopeta nationale, where he spoke about the acidity of the political class of the one that came after late-franquism. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez. Mr Pazos Couñago has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u207	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. At the last plenary session, my companion Paula Prado brought here an initiative on the protection of the owners from the occupations, and the opposition tried to ridicule her by saying that we had issues that were not of interest to anyone, as can be seen today on the cover of Galicia's best-selling newspaper, right? They weren't interested in anyone, and so I want to start by thanking the opposition that gives us the opportunity to debate today on a subject that is leaving the Greeks and the Greeks without sleeping, whether the charges of the Union go or not to the bulls. They stop me every day in the street, I really tell them. [[Applause]] Look: as you have profusely shown a lot of photographs here on the perverse charges of the Board, I show you this one that happened to them about the White, Pose and Louro lords, right? in a bullfight. I say it because they didn't show it for not offending, that if they don't, if they're done with these things, but they're gonna let me remind them. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago shows the House a photo of the folio size.]] As the question is, finally, it calls a little bit to the fall, if you will allow me, we will debate. We have to debate, and I'm going to do it on three premises: legality, tolerance and coherence. Legality, basic premise: any legally constituted organization that celebrates a legally permitted event may extend an invitation to the Government of the Union, which in the field of its freedom will decide whether or not to accede. I think we can all agree on this. You today are trying to do away with that freedom and impose your particular opinion on a Government of all the Greeks, which must represent all the Greeks. They do so now with the theme of the tour, they did it before with the assistance of religious acts. By the way, Mrs. Vilán, tell Mr. Bugallo not to go to the Apostle's offering, which I suppose is what you ask. In both cases, you have always gone to the most fundamental of Europe's least tolerant left: to impose everything you like and to ban everything you dislike. His thought is summed up in this. [[Applause]] He said, speaking of tolerance, Mr Bará: we live as Greeks. Home! So you do like the Greeks. You don't like tourdas? Don't go. You don't like hunting? They don't hunt. Don't you like processions? Don't come. But they stop flogging those Greeks who, in the use of their personal freedom, carry on legitimate and legally permitted activities. You're too used to dispatch meat. [[Applause]] Look: they started dispatching Italian meats; they continued dispatching feminist meats; they now issue modern meats, and they also want to send us meats of tolerance. And if you don't have the meat, you can be harassed, persecuted, insulted and marked on the public square as intolerant, because, ladies and gentlemen, tolerance is yours. And those who do not embrace the new progressive faith can be unpunished burned in the purifying fire of the most modern and laciest inquisition of the left. Gentlemen, tolerance is a virtue that needs discrepancy to be exercised. You have no merit to tolerate the one you agree with, you have to tolerate the one you disagree with. [[Applause]] I would ask them, since they don't know what tolerance is, because tolerance is obvious that they don't know it, at least embrace coherence. Look, about 15 days ago, we were asked to support the billiard, because it's a minority activity in Galicia that needs to be supported. Today we are asked to refuse to help the tourdas, because the touradas consider it to be a minority activity in Galicia. Conclusion: the minority activities that are of the left's taste must be supported. Today they ask us — excuse me, but they do not argue, they do not argue that I am already finishing the job — not subsidize the bullfighting, and ask us the same, Mrs. Vilán, that they have transferred the competences of the Tauromachy of Interior to Culture because — literally the real decree that you have adopted — "The Tauromachy is understood as an artistic discipline and a cultural product, it is understood that its competences in order to promote and protect them have their proper location in the Ministry of Culture". [[Murmurs.]] But we all know how this goes, because right-hand support for bullfighting is animal abuse, and left-hand support for bullfighting is culture. And I don't aspire to be like Carmen Calvo, right? who says he doesn't have to ask permission or forgiveness because I like bulls and he's defined as feminist, rocker and bullmach, like? [[Applause]] Look: today we are asked to ignore a law, that we ignore the Law of Tauromachy, the same ones that asked us to adhere unconditionally yesterday...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u208	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u209	...the other law, the voluntary interruption of pregnancy, whose full compliance we defend, although we may partially disagree with it. Because the laws must be respected — a socialist spokesman said yesterday — whenever he liked the left, that he forgot to say so. And now we're done: today we are asked to end up with the tourists in Galicia the same ones who recovered the only snore bull that is celebrated in Galicia. Because swallowing bulls is a cruelty in Castile, but in Galicia it is a respectable tradition if I blessed the BNG, who criticizes... [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u210	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u211	...that the members of the Government of the Union come to the towers, but applaud that a nationalist mayor is the one who carries the rope of the only sucking bull...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u212	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u213	...because the bull suffers when it mugs in Spanish, but when I'm in Greek it enjoys it very much, ladies and gentlemen. So... [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u215	...by tolerance, by coherence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u216	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u217	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u218	Thank you very much. [[Balbordo.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Cal Ogango has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u219	Well, don't be surprised. I, as I said at first, brought a very concrete initiative, which was simply that the Union did not attend these kinds of events. We don't talk about forbidding, we don't go deep, in the hope that perhaps, at least, you could take that step so that this in Galicia would be over. But we see the People's Party very much enjoying this animal torture, and so it has just proved its entire bench. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] It's obvious that you're defending, supporting and dynamizing, because that's what we're talking about when we go to Junta; we're not talking about prohibiting or not prohibiting, we're talking about dynamizing, supporting, pushing, what it does... [[Murmurs.]] President, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u220	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u221	You bad guys, you real bad guys. [[Murmurs.]] President, it's impossible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u222	Silence! Quiet, please! Continue, Mr. Cal, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u223	It's obvious that you support shows of animals that have no back in Galicia. That's how the data shows it, they have no support at all. But we don't stand because it's a minority, because minority still violates animal suffering. Something that's minority and that's positive, we're not going against it. It's not because I'm a minority. With regard to the amendments, I had already told both the BNG party and the Socialist Party, that they told me they wanted to go a little further, as I had said in my intervention, I just wanted to take this step because I knew that the other one, obviously, would not support it, to see if he could go ahead. But once confirmed the position of the People's Party, that they will continue to dynamize the spectacles of animal torture in Galicia, because, of course, I would seek a transaction with both the BNG and the Socialist Party to incorporate these initiatives and that there is also a little exposure to that position. Mr. Paz, it's not a matter of tolerance or not tolerance, it's a matter of positioning. In Pontevedra on the same day there will be people in the bull market and there will also be thousands of people manifesting against the tournaments. And the Galician Union, in a conflict situation, where there is a social conflict -- it's obvious -- is placed with one of those parts. He'll be positioned with one of these parts because he's not going to the demonstration, he'll be positioned with one of these parts going to support the bull market. And that's what we're talking about, that within a social conflict is one of the parties: the Galician Union is in favour of the tourists against all the citizenship that is manifesting itself against the tournaments. That's the reality: there's a position of the Galician Union in support of the tourists attending those acts. It's not a matter of tolerance, Mr. Paz, and you know it. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u224	Thank you very much, Mr. Cal. [[Murmurs.]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and two other Members, on the adoption by the Government of Greece of measures, including those of training and awareness, to reduce the presence of waste on the beaches and seabeds of Galicia in order to recover biodiversity and marine ecosystems
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u225	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo has the floor. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u226	Thank you, President. A bull throwing blood through its mouth in a square should not grieve. I'm sure this turtle with a plastic in their head is sorry, or this seal that's trapped in a network, or this seahorse that's carrying a stick -- and they're not ready images -- or this necor, which could be perfectly in Galicia, put in a plastic pot. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo shows the House a photo of the folio size.]] [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo shows the Chamber another photo of the folio.]] [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo shows the Chamber another photo of the folio.]] [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo shows the Chamber another photo of the folio.]] If there is tolerance with these animals there should also be tolerance with others. It's more: even tolerance with women, even tolerance with people who decide to marry others of the same sex. If a woman does not wish to give up, it is not compulsory to abort, but it is not necessary to appeal to the Constitutional Court against the Abortion Act, or to abstain when what is requested from here is compliance with that law of 2010, for example. Or nobody forces anyone to marry people of the same sex, not and necessary, but it's not tolerance to appeal to the Constitutional Court against the Law of Homosexual Marriage. And that's what you did. On that side, lessons of tolerance and the first lesson. [[Murmurs.]] President, I would ask Mr Pazos that, if possible, since he has made his Tauromachic manifestation here, if he can make it out, or he may even go to the bull market in Pontevedra and do it there, but please try not to interrupt.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u227	Silence! It's true, all the time on every side. Sometimes this looks like a school yard. Silence!, silence!, silence, please! Listen to who's using the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u228	This was a campaign, the Trashtag Challenge in Galicia, which we will all remember — these are pictures of the beach in Vilanova de Arousa, in the Coruña, in Vigo, — of sea trash collection, which had to do with precisely this concern that the anonymous citizens have volunteered for the environment, for the animals, for the bulls as well. [[Mrs. Vilan Lorenzo looks at a few photos in a folder.]] That's why we're going thousands more people than they take in the bull market at that demonstration. And according to the scientific community, 32 percent of all the plastic we use humans ends up in nature. Eight million tons of plastic end up in the oceans and seas. And science is warning us of the danger there is about the environment and for humans by the microplastics that pass through the trophic chain. Many marine species require these plastics, and then these marine species become food that we consume people. By water, by micro-organisms and by sunlight, that plastic goes down, and they end up being particles of few microbes of length so small that the plank itself confuses with food. There are still no studies to find out how much plastic we put citizens into is a danger, a problem for people's health. But if there's a study by John Hopkins University in the United States, which says that on average, through salt, human beings are swallowing thirty-seven plastic particles a year. They're even making a little joke, and they say people who are very fond of the shellfish -- we're not very fond here, but if we're amateurs, we say -- they could eat up to eleven thousand particles of microplastics every year. There are already nine countries in Europe that are studying the effects of plastics on human health, because the European Union is the second largest producer of plastics in the world, with about 50 million tons a year. As an example, in Europe you consume about one hundred seventy-six plastic bags per person per year, in Spain about one hundred fifty, in Galicia about the same, to use them about an average of fifteen minutes. In Galicia we have nearly a thousand miles of coastline, we don't include the islands, and we're not free of these images. That necroma could be perfectly a necora galesa. And we don't have a cousin like Mariano Rajoy who can defend us from plastics in Galicia. So those 1 00,000 miles of coastline and the entire sea ecosystem in Galicia are threatened by the marine garbage. Out of those thousand and five hundred miles, as I said before, because the islands are out there, there's the Maritime-Terrestrial National Park of the Atlantic Islands. In this park, in 2018, they campaigned, called the Network for the Recovery of Marine Ecosystems in Galicia's Maritime-Terrestrial National Park, and this year 2019 they repeated the campaign. Why? Because it is threatened and the fear of park officials is that the ecosystem balance, socio-economic balance and biodiversity of the park itself are broken. The measures by the administrations outside the park do not exist, and that's why within the park the officials decided to do this project. In 2018, the results were as follows — basically were thousands of objects, but mostly they were made of plastic — a 42 percent plastic strings and strings, which could be the picture of this seal with a string necklace, a 21 percent microplastics and a 6 percent synthetic foams. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo shows the House a photo of the folio size.]] This program repeats itself in the year 2019 — we still have no data — but they have the two projects that are very specific: One, regaining biodiversity and marine ecosystems because awareness of sustainability is necessary, by deciding to involve population in general, mainly the fisheries sector, the third sector, educational centres and participating municipalities. Secondly, to promote knowledge, management and conservation of marine habitats that are protected on the islands. They started off the island of Salvora, now they're going to extend it to the islands of Ons and Cortega. And they also had the aim of protecting mainly marine biological resources, especially on the Natura 2000 network. And the third objective of these projects, these programs is to promote ecosystem improvement actions, essentially promoting the removal of waste from the beaches of the islands and other areas of influence on the islands, and the collection of fishing gears that are abandoned or lost. These projects we believe should not be left to the goodwill of the volunteers and the people who are, indeed, aware of the respect and sustainability of the environment, but who need a firm stand by the administration. In the national park they did -- we like these projects -- but we don't know what they look like to the Government, if the Government would be willing to implement a measure exactly like, or exactly, or exact, or identical or not, or similar in other protected marine areas that are within the competence of the Autonomous Community, outside the park and in those 1 500 kilometres of coastline that we have in Galicia, if you will ever develop awareness campaigns on marine waste, if you intend to clear seabeds and beaches across Galicia. Now that you're out saying they're betting on a green Galicia and a sustainable Galicia within the next ten years, because we'd like them to vote in favour of our non-law proposition. They won't have any problems to vote for. We call for immediate measures, above all, of training and awareness, to reduce the presence of this marine waste in the seabeds of Galicia and on the beaches of Galicia, and thus recover the biodiversity and marine ecosystems. Don't leave it all in the hands of people who are and are worried, from their good will, about the environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u229	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. Mr Rodríguez Estévez has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u230	Thank you, President. It's not Mr. Pazos, but comparing the billiard with the bulls is almost like comparing the dust to the fair with the sushi, right? Speaking of dust at the fair, as we're talking about ecosystems and pollution today, it's a bad combination for the People's Party, right, when we're talking about sustainability. [[Laughter]] What actions has the Sea Council carried out to control this microplastic pollution? [[Murmurs.]] Well, we don't know the truth. The problem is there. Ducias, said Mrs Vilan, of studies today demonstrate the existence of garbage in the country's marine ecosystems; waste that we generate, people. Today more than ever, the damage and enormous pollution and risk problems are demonstrated for marine species due to these microplastics, as the material they're composed of is toxic. The Sea Council doesn't know if you've done studies on the need to analyze these contaminants as microplastics and how they're affecting our ecosystem. Since June, we don't know if they're able to see the benefits these ecosystems bring to us, but they would have done their best to curb this real outcome. Unsustainable fishing, pressure on management, on the construction in the coastal strips, general urban management plans by which they have made real barbarities on our coasts, always with the approval also of the People's Party Government, the pollution and the effects of climate change, for all this has been deeply threatening the coast of Greece for decades. An example of null management: in 2016, at the Festival de Valares, on the Coast of Death, we have luxury inhabitants there as the dune pill, because this festival was developed in a zone 1 of the Natura Network and broke the terms of permission in a fragrance. It has even been allowed from the Union to the organization which covers many more days than were provided for in the permit. And besides the people of the place and the denunciation of Seprona himself, what did the Unity of Galicia do? He didn't do anything. But, well, we have more examples; examples of land inside, which end up in our rivers, on our backs, as they can be Touro, as may be San Fins, we have the example of Ence. Our beaches and our seabeds are at risk, their ecosystems are at risk. The solution? Store and use sustainably what our seabeds are. Of course, for this we have to safeguard our coastal areas, we have to safeguard our fishing alley, preserve our most vulnerable ecosystems. And this means being able to respond to the impacts of climate change and human activities. How can we do that? We need to curb that overexploitation by creating sustainable fishing communities that can live from sustainable fishing, by curbing pollution, the effects of climate change and, like not?, as this proposal is very well drafted: "take immediate measures, including training and awareness, to reduce the presence of marine waste on the beaches and seabeds of Galicia." Do you from the People's Party think our beaches and seabeds are properly protected? You're allowing them to become genuine landfills, mismanagement of pollution, mismanagement of waste that is generating land inside, mismanagement of maritime traffic, or pressure of construction on the coast. I think it's a job and a duty for everyone to work on controlling this pollution, organizing the coast, implementing sustainable fisheries policies and protecting the marines, because that's the only way we can all deal with pollution. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u231	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez. Mr Bará Torres has the floor by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u232	For a moment in the previous intervention I thought that this hemicycle had become the bull market in San Roque, in Pontevedra, and instead of attending a bull race we attended one of those comic-taurine shows by the bullfighter, listening to the People's Party deputy. [[Applause]] By the way, talking about gastronomy, the nationalists and the German nationalists, some, at least, like the dust at the fair and we like the sushi as well. I don't know where Mr. Rodríguez is but these are things that can be added. Well, let's also talk in some way about animal abuse, abuse of the planet, the middle, the marine environment, because really the marine garbage, the plastics that accumulate in the sea and the beaches are one of the most obvious faces of the current economic system, of that system of use and disposal. And, of course, it's a necessity, an emergency to act in its entirety through action, besides public action. We cannot leave these activities in the hands of private initiative and volunteering, of people who, of course, are eager to act in this matter to take care of the marine and coastal environment. And not only on the Atlantic islands -- they seem interesting and positive to us about these initiatives -- but we have to act on the whole of the coast and the Galician coast with an integral and serious plan. And not only or not primarily by pilot projects, because here we take a lot of pilot projects, that is, to do it, to act many times for the gallery with this decorating makeup policy; we're going to do here a nice thing for you to think we're doing something. And in this sense, I want to remember that last year, in 2018, the Environment Advisor publicly presented a project called "Circular Seas." The thing sounds good. Well, this initiative was promoted by a multinational company called Coca-Cola, which is one of the main responsible, really, for the production and generation of waste and plastic waste, which many of them end up at sea. They don't want to do beach cleaning campaigns, they want to do washing campaigns and cleaning their image. This is what these companies want with what is now called "corporate social responsibility." So this is a policy of fireworks that goes a long way to Union to divert the attention of the main, the fundamental, to accessory issues. And the fundamental thing in this case is, above all, acting from the beginning, from the generation, from the production of that waste, from those wastes, from those plastics. It is essential in this sense to change the economic and social system. And there are rules to do this. But although there are no such European directives, which if they exist, about plastics, about plastics, about their use, about packaging or packaging, even if they did not exist, it could and should have been done long before. And there are European countries like Denmark, like Finland, and how, above all, Ireland has been almost two decades doing such policies with great results. And in this case Ireland is an example to follow in this matter. And in the Spanish state there are also communities, such as Catalonia or Andalusia, which have also been acting in the area of plastic reduction for many years. You can act already and you can do, for example, in a very specific area, which is the packaging or packaging, changing that pernicious system which is Ecombles by a system of deposit, return and return, which is what is achieving the best results in the most advanced countries of Europe in this matter. And with regard to marine waste, we must act urgently and globally because Europe produces nearly twenty-six million tons of plastic waste, and a part of them, around thirty percent, ends up being thrown into the sea, or seventy percent of the marine waste are products derived from plastics and fishing gears also made of plastic. We must therefore have a public plan; a public plan with public resources, but also with private funding, with funding for these companies, which are, as I said, the main ones responsible for the generation of the production of these plastic products. And also with the involvement, awareness and awareness of all citizenship to act in the sea, on the seabed, on the coast, on the beaches, on the coast and also very important in the harbour areas, which are if we make a journey through the harbour areas of Galicia a real disaster in this matter. Therefore, the BNG will support this initiative of the Socialist Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u233	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. Mr Cal Ogong spoke on the part of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u234	Thank you, President. We're watching the era of the planet of plastic, some of which will say that you've caught them off guard. Just like climate change, which is all of a sudden here and no one has seen it coming, even though the scientific community has been warning us that this situation is coming. We are witnessing a tremendous environmental crisis that is jeopardizing the world as we know it, at the slightest pace of biodiversity, of natural wealth. Climate change, air pollution, water and land are today a top-level problem, possibly the greatest challenge we face as a society, the greatest challenge of the present and the future: to keep our home habitable. And we didn't get to this situation by chance. This is responsible, and it's those who come defending a predatory model with the environment, where a few get great benefits outsourcing costs also in the form of aggression and predation of the environment. And now we are faced with the environmental crisis, the climate crisis, the plastic crisis, the air crisis, the desertification crisis, the drought, the biodiversity crisis, a Galician Union that keeps looking to the other side as if we were not in this situation of such gravity. We know that conservation and recovery of the environment is not among the priorities of some political organizations, it is obvious, as their electoral programs and their political action demonstrate. But I am sure that all Members and Members as individuals, and especially most voters and voters from any of the parliamentary groups, will be concerned that the plastic crisis is already affecting human health a lot. Look, it's good to know this, so that it won't surprise you in a few years, either, because you're always late for these issues. Researchers from the University of Vienna, in collaboration with the Agency for the Environment of Austria, in the results of their last study, find microplastics in the human food chain, in the form of particles made of polypropylene, polyethylene terephthalate and other substances. And possibly the alarm also knows that when these substances are inserted and dragged to the intestinal tract these plastic microparticles are harmful to the human body, because they affect the tolerance and immune response of the intestine through bioaccumulation. And they should also know that these microplastics in the human body favor the transmission of toxic chemicals and pathogens, which we're talking about on an important public health issue as well. In addition, it must also be borne in mind that the problem of plastic is not only limited to the trophic chain, it also has to do with its own carbon dioxide emission, which is another of the major problems that we have to solve, because it emits them in its production process. We must also add to this the fact that plastic in the sea negatively affects aquatic plants, which are the main sources of oxygen that should curb carbon gas emissions. In addition, plastic also releases poisons to water that kill phytoplant and other species. I think there are reasons to deal with this problem as soon as possible, that we are already late. The sea has to stop being a dump, we've been saying it for many days, and we can't go on delaying solutions. That is why, of course, we will support this initiative by focusing on the seabed of the Atlantic islands, which is also a location which is a special area of protection because it is the National Park of the Atlantic Islands, and yet the situation we are seeing today shows that it is not protecting itself properly. We also saw that the Atlantic islands do not enjoy the sensitivity of the Galician Union for its protection. We also saw that for years they have not been controlling the human pressure they could bear, with many visits allowed far above those permitted for many years, that biologist experts ensure that they have already had important repercussions on the islands themselves. And we're seeing it now also with the threat of depositing the muds, which the Galician Union recognises are detrimental to the Pontevedra River, two miles from the island of Salvora, in the Atlantic Islands Park. So we support this initiative and all those that are headed to make the sea no longer a dump, because we can't go on like this. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. Cal Ogong. Mr Trenor López has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u236	Good morning. Mrs. Vilán, you have a lot of courage to be on the left and talk about tolerance, you should read Hayek or Popper, or even the novels of Milan Kundera, which tell you very well what tolerance on the left, or travel to those countries of Eastern Europe, or, for example, Venezuela, Cuba, where the left has worked perfectly, and you will see what tolerance in these countries is. [[Applause]] But when we talk about homophobia, we have to take it very seriously too. I've already told you that every time we talk about gay, lesbian, transsexual issues, there's not one man from your group who goes out to this stage to talk, there's not one man, why? Because in his group he also acts, he also operates homophobia. When a minister calls another minister, homophobia also works. When there was a government president who laughed when his vice president called the opposition leader homophobia also operated. With which, Mrs. Vilan, when you talk about homophobia, you have a little humility and analyze what you do from your lines, from your ranks. Look: we're going to support this initiative, even though you in your speeches sometimes make it very difficult, and it seems that our group does not want to support the initiatives. You spoke about the Network project for the recovery of marine ecosystems in the Maritime-Terrestrial Natural Park of the Atlantic Islands, which has developed over the past year. It was a wide-ranging programme of activities aimed at addressing the problem of this initiative. The main objective of this program was to minimize and prevent the loss of biodiversity, so it worked in one of the enclaves that integrate the National Park of the Atlantic Islands. Moreover, it stresses the clear importance of raising awareness about the problem of plastics and also of carrying out small actions to eliminate marine waste that harm the environment of the park. In 2019, Junta again participates in the second phase of this project, and extends the scope of action in addition to other protected areas of space, and has such important partners as the Galician College of Biologists and also the Spanish Oceanography Institute. And in addition, in this framework, a study has already been conducted that was very important to analyze and characterize the marine waste in the corner of Cortegada Island, which allows us to know exactly how that garbage ends up in our backs. That information, in addition, serves to have an X-ray so you can soon develop a fieldwork that will develop over these months. This year, in addition, an environmental action was also carried out to remove invasive species and the remains of plastics located on the beaches of the Ons archipelago. In addition, the Greeks added back to the 1m2 campaign by nature, through which cleaning beatings were carried out on the beaches. In all, in 2018, there were more than 500 volunteers who did clean up. There were also campaigns to reduce plastic bags. Together with the expansion of the Sogama Environmental Complex, which has an investment of 20 million euros, it will increase the treatment capacity from 550,000 tons to more than one million. And I remember this because, thanks to Sogama, it ended with hundreds of dumps on our backs only three decades ago, as surely all those Members who are from some town on the coast can remember. But not only is it important what is being done, but we also have great challenges ahead. For example, the Welsh Plastic Strategy, which is already being drafted and will be one of the main tools to prevent or reduce the consumption of plastics, and also, of course, the preliminary draft legislation on waste and contaminated soils in Galicia, which is currently being processed, which we hope will come into force in 2020 and will make important progress in this direction. We hope that it will enter into force in 2020 after, of course, making the parliamentary process in this Chamber soon. That law will lead to measures aimed at curbing the impact of plastics, such as the prediction of selling in the territory of our autonomous community plastic vases of one use, as well as pots, cups and food trays that are not made up of about 50 percent biocompostable material, or 60 percent...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u237	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u238	...from 2025 or completely from 2030. Re-use will also be boosted. It will also deepen on the reuse or recycling of household waste. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I think this is the great tool. The groups have the responsibility to have one of the best laws we can have. In that case, as always, I offer the will and intention of our group to listen to the approaches of all groups...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u239	Thank you, Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u240	...to achieve among all the best of the laws, which enables virtually to combat the production of plastic waste and also its elimination from the back. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u241	Thank you. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u242	Thank you, President. I would like to thank the Joint Group, the BNG Group and the En Marea Group for their support. I don't know what to say to the People's Group because I didn't understand whether you were going to vote for or against. I understand you do, and I'm glad. But, of course, you come here and start your intervention with something that we honestly don't understand most, because we didn't know very well what I was talking about... actually, there are people who are wrong in all parties. But you're wrong as a party, because you're negotiating and taking a dog from company to Vox. That's your problem. By the way, Vox is against plastic; indeed, plastics, contraceptives, condoms, which were distributed on Pride Day in Madrid. That is to be not only against plastics but against the development of people's rights. And there's a big difference between your party and ours. Because this far-fetched gentleman named Zapatero, the Law of Homosexual Marriage — which I know — you did not support it, and they also had the defamation and rejection of bringing an action against it to the Constitutional Court. That's the difference between you and us. There's not much more to tell. Here, the only thing we're really asking for, and I'm glad that we all agree, is to copy an initiative that a public entity has developed for the National Park of the Atlantic Islands, because society is asking us to protect the environment further. And those new people who come there pressing for the protection of the environment, because we stay six years of life, but they stay much more than us, they're worried, and it's necessary that governments get involved, that we involve the municipalities, that we involve the fishing sector and that we involve the educational centers. I, to finish, I mean that we can't wait for the writing of a Welsh strategy of plastics, nor the Waste Law, which, by the way, says absolutely nothing of the marine waste. It speaks of blankets, glasses, plastics, like "a dish is a dish and a glass is a glass," but it says nothing about marine waste. It would also be good if the Natural Heritage Act linked you to marine ecosystems and protected marine areas, which are neither. And I wanted to finish talking about the difference. You've been in government for ten years, and in Nigrán, a municipality in the province of Pontevedra, there's a socialist mayor who has just devised a system for collecting hoods on the beaches, even has a hashtag through social networks. It's a system, a special deposit for the cabbages on the beaches because they pollute a lot. So you could copy initiatives like this, and just don't vote for non-law propositions without more and then don't do anything and wait for strategies and wait for future laws. [[Murmurs.]] Let's wait, we're glad you're voting in favour...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u243	Silence! It's a suggestion. It's okay.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u244	...of our proposal not of law, but... [[Murmurs.]] Actually, I can't go out and talk because it's impossible with this animated staff with the bulls and Pontevedra's body. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u245	Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Paula Prado del Río and 13 other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the transfer to the Autonomous Community of Galicia of the seven hundred million euro committed for the year
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u246	This motion for a non-law has been tabled amendments by the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Blocs of Galicia and the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u247	Mr. Puy has the floor to formulate the proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u248	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This morning there was the socialist spokesman in the round of beer control—that's what he said. And to focus this proposal not on law I want to remember the dialogue between Babieca and Rocinante that comes in the Quixote. What Babieca says: "You're metaphysical," and he answers Rocinante: "That's in the way." Because, really, what this LNP is about is about eating, about important things, not metaphysics. As we all know: with the things to eat, you don't have to play. [[Applause]] What are the facts? The facts are that the State, once closed in the first half, owes Galicia some committed amounts to its transfer amounting to 700 million euros, of which 530 are included in the actual budgets in this exercise. And we are asking that the House support the demands of the nation's government to make these transfers. Where do they come from? First, updating your commits to the exercise account. These deliveries to the account, by 330 million, were officially reported by the ministry in July 2018. It certainly affects this non-payment of deliveries to the announced account last summer to more autonomous communities; there are nine that have included them in budgets. The total amount is about seven billion for all autonomous communities. But it is also true that the average of what affects the budgets of the autonomous communities is 0.4 percent of the total budgets, and in Galicia it means 0.8, that is, double. The collection and the departure of the economy confirm that the State has and is actually entering these resources, but what it does is it does not transfer them to autonomous communities, which, as I say later, causes problems to the Autonomous Farm. The second figure is EUR 200 million — a total for all Spain, for all autonomous communities, of EUR 2,800 million — has to do with a malfunction that occurred in the liquidation of the autonomic financing system in 2017. That year there was a reform of the value added tax system, a reform that nobody discussed because they had two objectives -- and the reform is fulfilling these two objectives -- firstly, to facilitate payment by the taxpayer of value added tax, in this case the obligation to enter, which are companies. And secondly, because by being computerized, it significantly improves the ability to fight fraud in this tribute. It happened that year, precisely because of that change, the State entered for 13 months, attributable to the year 2017 exercise. But when the settlement was made, eleven -- and the rest of the autonomous communities -- arrived at the board. This happens once. Because in 2018, with the new system — which it is not necessary to change, I understand — autonomous communities will already receive twelve months of VAT. So we're talking about the 2017 liquidation, for one time, that affects the income of the Union in 2019. This problem has already been addressed by the President of the Union. There's no need to remember what the current Minister of Fairy said when she was a adviser to Fairy in the Autonomous Community of Andalusia. Just what the president said in August last year — that he had a personal interview, and so he told all the press in the press rounds of that meeting — was that there was a formal commitment from the Ministry to resolving this issue. These two figures, 330 and 200 million euros, are 530 million that are in the budgets of the Union for 2019 and that the Government of the State is not transferring. The third comes from payments that are not included in the budgets of the Union, but are included in the budgets of the State, drawn up by the former Government of the People's Party, which, as it is known, included in one of its additional provisions incentives, compensations, for autonomous communities fulfilling deficit targets. Basically, there were two of them, which at that time — as recently as they were curiously not governed by the Socialist Party either. One is Galicia and another is Canary Islands. Galicia has met deficit targets. This is witnessed and certified by both the Airef and the Government of the State itself. We've met the deficit target. We had a 0.4% target and we had a 0.7% surplus, which allowed us recently in this House to pass a law that allowed us to apply this surplus to social spending. We met the debt target, which was an individual target for Galicia of 18.4% of GDP, and was 18%. And we complied with the spending rule, which had a top of 2.4 percent and Galicia had a 0.4%. That is why, in application of State budgets, Galicia is owed 85 million of each year, 2018 and 2019. And I want to remind the House that these incentives are a pardon of the money that we owe the state for the negative liquidations of the years 2008 and 2009; that is, the money that the Bipartite included in the budgets of the years 2008 and 2009 and that we are paying. And thanks to this initiative of the National Government of Mariano Rajoy, it was possible that at least the compliments had as compensation not to have to enter that money into the state farm. So this is an incentive that had its origin in bad socialist government budgets of the past. Of course, if you don't get these amounts, there's a series of risks. There is not much Standard and Poor’s, an agency of known tax compliance risk assessment, said there could be pressures in meeting the deficit targets by autonomous communities as a result of not transposing, not transferring, deliveries to the account. There are certainly risks to the treasury, because, if you don't give that money in monthly deliveries, you might have a liquidity problem with the treasury. And Galicia, which at present is the fastest paid autonomous community — fourteen days in front of an average of thirty-five — of the autonomous communities, because it could have problems continuing to do something that is very positive to the community economy, which is paid to the providers in time. And something much worse could happen if this extends towards the end of the year. And that's because in the budget there are 530 million euros that, if they don't transfer, will cause there to be some adjustment in spending, which is exactly what we don't want to do, and that's what we've been accusing the opposition for many years. And, of course, if you have to produce in an extreme case now — that we hope it doesn't happen — it's not going to be because of the Board. FEDEA proposed to increase this year's debt which can be issued, this year's debt ceiling, to compensate for these issues. But that is not the most appropriate solution when the State is entering these resources and when the State can avoid a problem also in the future, which would be that when it liquidates the year 2019 in 2021 — the 7. billion that will have to pay for the liquidation, in this positive case, of the year 2019 — it may have problems with the state itself to do that liquidation. Well, I ask for consistency in the House, consistency, firstly, with the amendments — amendments — there is no doubt that there is a basic agreement on which the State owes the Board these amounts — but also with the actions of the past. In 2018, just after the year 2017 we incorporated the accounts into the budgets of the Union, the approval of the State budgets was delayed. In Madrid, state budgets, as you know, were approved in the summer. But already in January 2018 the Socialist Group in Madrid began talking about blackmail from the People's Party because it didn't make those transfers unless the budgets were approved. In Galicia there was a battery of initiatives claiming the EUR 321 million, asking the Board where it was going to cut, saying it was a break for the Board, that those € 321 million disappeared from the pen, and there was institutional disloyalty — in January 2018—. Today, which we are already in July 2019, we are not going to be so dramatic and say that we have to have a determined attitude to claim what Galicia has to do with it, which is what socialist initiatives were saying, but we believe it is appropriate for the House to make this claim and of course not to accept that it is subject to a new blackmail which has nothing to do with the budgetary issue, as is Mr Sánchez's investment. Because besides there are other exits, there are other exits, and there are background. I want to remember that in 2005 and 2007 advances were passed because the collection was much better than expected, and that the Government in function of Mariano Rajoy, with the constituted courts, approved two decrees precisely for making payments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u249	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u250	...on 1/2016, which was the Employment Activation Programme, and on 30 September Royal Decree 2/2016, of tax measures to correct the deficit. There are, therefore, precedents for the government in office, with the Courts constituted, to be able to pass royal decrees on grounds of urgency in financial matters. There are precedents, there are mechanisms, but there is also a suspicion: the suspicion that the decrees of famous Fridays did not include any of these issues. There is a suspicion that we are told that everything depends on Mr. Sánchez's investment and there is the financial suspicion — which is more serious — that the Government of the State is running out of money corresponding to the autonomous communities and that there is a threat...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u251	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u252	...of imminent elections in the fall. That seems more serious to us. Ladies and gentlemen, in short, what we are asking for is support for Galicia to have what it has to do with it. It's not an investment in exchange for extra money. It's about that, despite that investment, Galicia has to receive what it has right to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u253	Thank you. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u254	Thank you, Mr. President. I will begin by saying, before we are accused of being accomplices of Pedro Sánchez and of telematically investing, that at the bottom of the concrete claim presented by this initiative of the People's Parliamentary Group we agree. And we're not going to be an obstacle to that from Galicia. In fact, we tabled an amendment precisely because it seems to us that the People's Party, in order to be clothed in this permanent suit of struggle against the aggravating of the state, because it remains quite short. We understand that this initiative is short and therefore we present a battery of amendments. Because, of course, the underlying problem is that, once again, we see the People's Party coming here to practice selective amnesia. I will not ask you, Mr Puy, to use your Members in Madrid to invest Mr Sánchez in exchange for these issues, as you asked us in the country councils to solve problems like that of Alcoa. But there would be nothing more to be passed on to them than this very rebel process that they have to condition in state policy some of the relevant issues — for example, on the electrical issue or on something that we have included in our amendment. Because, of course, yesterday Mr. Santalices told us not to be angry, not to start the campaign. I don't know, Mr. Santalices, if you didn't start the campaign you mentioned, but, of course, there are those who are campaigning here already because we change the wizards by the polls. In any case, we have made it clear that there are issues that have to be above that state agenda and above that campaign that now has the Government of Galician Union, which seems to keep breathing relieved because in Madrid there is someone who is not them and then can move issues that I didn't do before. Because, of course, some questions have to be asked. It seems that this specific question that we are being transferred from the EVI is something new, that the framework of the financing system, that mechanism of delivery to the account, is something that emerged from nothing, that had nothing to do with the decisions of the People's Party in the State. The conclusion we draw from Mr. Puy's intervention is that there are two periods of misfortune on this planet: one was 2005-2009, with that seven-headed Bipartite of what we were talking about yesterday, and another was last year. What happened between 2009 and June 2018 was that this country was going to be great, that it didn't have any kind of problem in services like health care or lack of funding, or that it had no other problem related to the economic relationship we have with the Spanish State. And that seems to us to be untrue in reality and unrealistic. Because it must be remembered that it was precisely the People's Party who introduced that deficit regulation, which we, in our amendment, propose to derogate. And now it seems that we are shocked because Galicia does not have enough autonomy to be affected by the instability of the state; instability that at this time can be instability and at other times it is irresponsible but that in general the question is that the centralist policies that apply from Madrid are detrimental to our country. And he spoke the spokesperson for the People's Party on things to eat. Indeed, Greek nationalism, sovereignism, many of us say that sovereignty is about eating. So, welcome to the awareness that we have a bad economic relationship with the State and that, therefore, there will be first to question that framework that the People's Party has set up to meet the deficit and assume that Galicia is currently no good for it. Because, of course, one of the issues that is put on the table is to claim those incentives from Rajoy's 2018 budget law, but I want to remind everyone here what that debate was like. At that point, we lived in the fact that a loss would be applied to communities that did not meet and therefore did not cut down, like Galicia, their basic public services. And it was, of course, so evident that Mr. Feijóo's state weight was being so heavy that they hit a little on the table and then Mr. Rajoy promised those kindnesss in the budgets, when it was already known, by the political situation, that it would be difficult to verify. And so it's one more example of the curious benefit we've obtained from having that restrictive frame. And I'm done. In our amendment we also include other issues that seem relevant to us and that seem to us like the things to eat. Why does it not affect the financial stability and the development capacity of our budgetary policy that the State still owe us these EUR 188 million in relation to the Dependency Act? Why do we not also apply a consensus to be strong in that claim? Is it embarrassing for them to assume that this is Rajoy's legacy? Or, for example, why don't we ask that Galicia be compensated for those more than a billion euros that were left without investing in Rajoy's budgets? Because, of course, here we scrape the clothes with the budgets that Mr. Sánchez posed and that we also criticise, but then the reality is that those who are approved and those who are extended harm our country and you give them the same. So we are not going to oppose this initiative, but we would expect that there would be some spirit of ambition and that, indeed, we would transfer more demands to the central government framework. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u255	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u256	Good morning. With regard to this initiative, I must begin by saying that to me it seems to me that we can all agree on what to claim, let us say, these additional EUR 530 million of what we are talking about, and that they are included in the Budgets Act, because it is sensible. I believe that this is fair, that the Autonomous Community of Galicia can have these resources available to deal with, let's say, the necessary expenditure in public services. And there they'll always find us for that. And I mean, there's no problem matching that position. But, after that, he is, let's say, what is implied in his words. And the first thing that's implicit is that it's the responsibility of the current government, and the second is that it's specific to Galicia, a sort of Spain steals us, which is not real. Because you know well that this affects all the autonomous communities of the common regime, there is no conxure against Galicia, and this also affects those autonomous communities that are governed by the Socialist Party. So that idea that you move that there's a sort of political maneuver to harm those communities that are different colors because it doesn't seem to have anything to do with it, it doesn't seem to have anything to do with it. As far as responsibilities are concerned, I'd like to point out the following. In the draft general budgets of the State which was not approved and which resulted in the election call for the year 2019, budgetary forecasts were included that would allow the Galician Union, through deliveries to the account, above those currently taking place, to comply with its budgetary forecasts. This was already included. And what happened was that, as that budget law was not approved, because this is not possible. My group in the Congress of Deputies voted in favour, and I believe that theirs, not; therefore those who voted against that budget cause these effects, cause these effects. In fact, from there we are raised the question of how to solve the financing of autonomous communities in relation to that difference between deliveries to the reported account and deliveries to the account that are actually carried out in compliance with the provisions of the law. That's what we have to fix now. I'm going to go to this now. And in relation to the IVE, you know perfectly well that this was caused by an amendment to the VAT regulation which was driven by the Minister Montoro and also supported by his parliamentary group at the Congress of Deputies. Yeah, that's it, but that's the responsibility. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And you also know that in the 2019 budget law, which was not approved, there was a solution that would solve this issue for the future; therefore, there was a solution in favour of your claims. And again it was the non-approval of that budget law that brings us to this situation. Next question: Is it possible to do so in accordance with the Government in functions? Well, I don't think so. If you read what the Government Law says, for the Government of Spain, for it rightly indicates that there are certain things that are prevented. Just like you can't pretend to replace the current head of the CNI — and I don't think this doesn't want to do Mr. Sánchez's government — because you can't push bills, which would be the most sensible way to solve this. Can there be other formulas? It seems that the Ministry's legal services indicate no. The minister — you know that not only with Mr Feijóo but also with other political leaders — has indicated his willingness to resolve these two issues and therefore there does not seem to be any political impediment. What there is is an impediment of a legal nature. That's why we say that the best way to solve this, and therefore also to claim it from here, is to take this circumstance into account and ask for it to be an effective government once the investment of whoever it is — I don't see any alternative than that of Mr. Sánchez, but perhaps there's something else — and to the effective government to ask him to solve this problem, which I think is not only in terms of conditions, but rather of wanting to do it. Because, in fact, income exists, income is going to be in the state accounts and income should be able to flow to the autonomous communities so that they can provide the services that citizens deserve. And we agree on this. In relation to incentives, I think the problem is a little different, and this difference is also collected in the fact that Galician Union itself did not budget them. Because it is true that in that additional provision of 2018 budgets...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u257	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u258	...if there was a provision, which was not an obligation, and was conditional, among other things, on the fact that the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council and Airef had issued a favorable ruling, things that had not happened — none of them — And so we're talking about a possibility that it's not encrypted in any specific amount -- because it's not talking about amounts, those figures that you quote are a maximum. We welcome this instrument, but we also want to transfer it to the plenary session of Parliament which provides these conditions. Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u259	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u260	Well, I'm done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u261	For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u262	Good morning, ladies. We are faced with a classic popular initiative, a cynical initiative of the People's Party that would not happen to you, yes, that would not happen to you when you rule, when you are ruling in the state, but now that you are in the opposition. And now I'll explain my claim, don't worry. It's the double face the People's Party shows. When ruling in the state he is willing to go through a social suffocation, an economic suffocation, Galicia and even his own self-government. But then, when he doesn't rule, there's a fake claim of autonomy and well-being. And we say she's faked because they're coming soon married or Abascal is cutting her tongue off from the Galician People's Party. We've seen him in the last few months, when he did it in fifteen days, the centralist just went from an autonomist because he called him his married boss in line to walk through the crochet column with the three right. Well, it's not a way to talk about this that we're saying. You already put in this initiative's own explanatory statement a number of examples of incoherence in this House along this very legislation. It takes quite a bit of dememorism in our opinion — or something of dememorism, at least — to lie about some of the issues without blundering. You speak in the explanatory statement of this initiative of the non-approval of the electro-intensive status for electro-intensive companies in our country. Well, the political group of En Marea throughout this legislation has on several occasions presented the same initiative in relation to this issue, and the People's Party varied its position of vote depending on whether it was ruling in the state or whether it was in the opposition, and with the same initiative and with the same words; with the variation, unique and exclusively, of the situation in the state. That's why we talk about incoherence. But it's okay, it's there, in the Diary of Sessions. And, within the positions that are inconsistent, it's better the rectification position that constitutes defending the interests of our country, not only of the employment of Alcoa but, above all, to end the scams of light that all consumers receive at the end of the month as a result of a price that shouldn't be that. Secondly, they also talk about AP-9's transfer. We do not need to remember here how, despite the unanimous position of this House during the last legislative period and even in the previous one, the Galician People's Party and its twelve Members voted otherwise in the Congress of Deputies and vetoed the debate themselves on many occasions — not to say that they voted against but to veto the debate themselves — about the passage of AP-9. So, of course, we're on our right to talk about incoherence and talk about cynicism in this kind of proposal. And we can also sink into another that's significant, that you're lying about in the exhibition of motives, which is undoubtedly also that of historical memory. And I don't say it anymore why it took them to assume certain situations but because of the position their party holds in negotiations with Vox in relation to the historical memory itself and how the People's Party is giving in to the demands of the ultra-right dememory and negationism. But at this point we must praise and, of course, acknowledge them, as the People's Party of Galicia, that they maintain themselves in that position of defending historical memory against their colleagues in the sphere of the state, who are giving way to positions before the ultra-right and the negationism of the barbarism that I have subjected to the coup d'état and subsequent Franco-Francist dictatorship. So take the benefit of being fulfilled. As for the position on the amendments that have approached the other political parties, we think that, as they sink into the same thesis, if they are welcomed by the People's Party, we will also support it. If the key is, as BNG explained, to adjust accounts with fiscal and budgetary aggravations, it's fair to acknowledge the extension of claims made in the amendment. And it's fair to acknowledge it precisely for one reason: because throughout the whole time, throughout the entire term of office, Mariano Rajoy has executed half of the planned investments without Feijó saying anything. And that's also the House's annals. I mean, they left without executing budgets that were planned for Galicia without the Government and without most Popular presenting any sort of initiative in this regard. Moreover, when initiatives have been presented in that sense, they have been overthrown by the majority of the people. There's an incongruence. We prefer this second position rather than the previous position. If the key is also the defense of self-government, it's also good to remember, consistent with what was also said here, that the absence of a fair system of self-financing gives rise to this kind of imbalance.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u263	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u264	I'll be done by now. They are also consequences of not firmly believing in self-government, which could give us a different system of fiscal decentralization that would end these problems. Since En Marea, considering that the proposal is fair, and even if we disagree on the coherence or inconsistency of the explanatory statement, we will vote in favour of this proposal by the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u265	Thank you, Mr. Villares. From the Joint Parliamentary Group they will vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u266	Are you correcting me?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u267	Yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The sound of Podemos or I'm like that. Now, another thing is the answer that the Bureau has sent to you. You're "Middle Parliamentary Group," no last name, no last name! We'll see about the future. You've finished this question, Mr. Villares, please! [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, I'll take it back. And I call him in order. Thank you for working on this. I can't do it anymore. [[Murmurs.]] I'm sorry. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u268	Good morning. Good morning, too, neighbors and neighbors of Sada. Even if they're from the People's Party, a greeting too. I always said that when Mariano Rajoy of the Government was thrown out, he had a lot of positive things. Among them is democratically punishing the corruption of the People's Party, but another is that it reactivated the People's Parliamentary Group in the Galician Parliament. It was from that point on that time that this harsh activity began to oppose from the Galician Parliament to the Government of the State, which we obviously respect, and it is legitimate. There's an exchange of papers with the Socialist Party on some of the curious issues. Mr. Puy himself spoke of that year 2018, when the situation with a government of Mariano Rajoy was similar too, because the budgets were not approved and then there were 320 million that claimed the Socialist Party of Galicia that it had to be given to Galicia. Even Mr. Leicega asked Mr. Feijóo — not an initiative of the People's Party of Galicia but of the Socialist Party of Galicia — who said, among other things: why don't you support Mr. Rajoy's budgets and solve the problem? Now Mr. Leicega also indirectly tells them to facilitate governance in the state so that the problem can be solved. There's a fairly sterile exchange of papers. Mr. Feijóo also says that... [[Murmurs.]] I can say much more serious things. Don't be like that. I don't know what they're going to say when I start to raise the tone a little bit. It'll be impossible to talk, calm down a bit. [[Strong murmurers.]] Well, Mr. Feijóo said Galicia had sufficient financial capacity to assume that time without that 320 million. In the background I repeat again what the fellows have repeated. We will not act as the People's Party acts, depending on the color of who governs, and we will support this initiative of the People's Party of Galicia. Because it falls from drawers, of course it's money that corresponds to Galicia. We're not going to act like you. In the initiative — which I am beginning to doubt that Mr Puy wrote it, I do not know — he considers the People's Party — or he recognises — that this is due to the intrusion that is taking place in the Spanish Government. So give Mr. Leicega something to reason. At first he says, "Because there's no government yet, because we're suffering from the consequences of those 700 million that aren't paid." So, I don't know if you'll have any reason for Mr. Leicega when he says that with a government in functions you can't do that. And then he also says, "...and the interested subordination of the starting-up of the investment process to the development of different partisan agreements." Translated to the People's Party, when Rajoy ruled, they were the ones who could not approve the budgets and work responsibly to achieve the governance of the state as radicals prevent us from doing so. How will you build governance in Madrid, Mr. Puy?, will you vote in favour of Mr. Sánchez's investment? Because the accounts you wish for are not given. You can't form government with VOX because you don't give your votes, as they were given in Andalusia, as they do in Madrid and as they do in Murcia. So what are you going to do — that you don't use party tactics to contribute to governance — so that we don't have the problems you explain in your initiative? Of course, with a government with VOX, autonomy would be much better, women's rights too, and LGTBI collectives much better. It also says the initiative that the examples of this government's disloyalty abound with Galicia. They're talking about AP-9, about energy, about Meirás's palace... you have to be quiet to talk about it when you have anti-democratically blocked in Madrid the transfer of AP-9 — a bill unanimously passed in this Parliament, which we've already talked about a lot — or when the previous spokesperson, Rafael Hernando, said that these from historical memory only move when there are subsidies. It speaks of the initiative that these payments would even force the Galician Union to study measures of restriction of expenditure; measures of restriction of expenditure such as those adopted in the time of the Rajoy Government, such as the delay in dispensation of medicines to cure hepatitis C, which was also due to these austerity policies which are not questioned here and which continue to defend with the agreement of the Socialist Party, those austerity policies that the constitutionalists signed with nocturnality and alleviation that 2010 — which for this they have indeed quickly changed the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u269	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u270	Of course it would be a breakdown, Mr. Puy — and I will finish — but an abrupt breakdown, above all, to a system of inadequate autonomic financing whose reform is unaffordable now as governance in the state is unattainable. Because deep down there is a political problem that has to be solved in the Spanish state or with more democracy and the right to self-determination of peoples or more authoritarianism. And that's the problem, the elephant that you don't want to see in the Congress of Deputies: that you prefer to deal first with the extreme right, that denies rights achieved after many years of struggle, both in historical memory and in people's rights, that with democratic formations that legitimately defend the independence of their nations. Why didn't you go ahead with the PSOE or the People's Party in reforming the system of self-financing, Mr Puy? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u271	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u272	Well, although the groups have a rather nice way of saying that a non-law proposition is good, that is criticizing the People's Party harshly, I thank them for supporting it and for agreeing with it. Mr. Villares, Mr. Sánchez, this is basically the first time this is happening. They don't say that we didn't ask for this before, because it's the first thing that happens that we're in July, that there's no prospect of approving an budget and that Galicia doesn't give the advance to the account that they said they were going to give it. So, as it is the first time that it happens, and unlike what others have done, that in January, when it was expected that there would be budgets — as there was then in 2018 — they already said that it was necessary to demand from the state what was due to Galicia — and it had not yet been practically due to it — because you will understand that we are betraying this initiative. We already know that the Group of En Marea, the official group of En Marea, is about approving the budgets that took Galicia more than 30% or 40% of the investments that Galicia had. And we know that this led to the first election of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, but I'd rather not talk about these issues because it's much more important to talk about the non-legislative proposal. Madam Presas, you basically agree. I appreciate it. I need the dependency, which this House has already approved several times — the request of the dependency —. We're talking about a very specific issue, which is the execution of the current system of self-financing. And then get two things I don't agree with. The first is a reform of the Stability Act. I insist that what we've learned from the crisis is precisely that, if we don't have a few minimum rules of budgetary stability, we're finally going to the disaster, which was what happened in the years 2008-2009 in the Spanish public farm in general and in the Galician in particular. And then ask me to support a new relationship with the state. He doesn't say "cup" but that's what you always ask. And the coupon would cost us a lot of hunger. Then we play with the things of real eating: a billion euros less a year, every year, funding for Galicia if you approve a system like what you propose over and over again and we refuse for responsibility. Because I understand that you defend Galicia as much as I do, but I defend first the interest and well-being of the Greeks as a concept of Galicia that leads us to ruin, as it is a system like the dome. [[Applause]] In relation to the Socialist Party, we cannot accept the amendments, because we have quantified 700 million euros and you only reach 530; some amounts are missing, for example the 20 million and the 52 million respectively from the Suficiency Fund and the Guarantee Fund, which in writing is not coming; and basically because we agree with ours. What Mr. Leicega is asking me is a counterfactual: half of the blame is that there are no budgets. I could ask you another counterfactual.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u273	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u274	What would happen if there wasn't that motion of censure that put out a government that was about to approve its budgets and that had most to continue ruling? Well, we wouldn't have this problem, because Mariano Rajoy's government always paid the Autonomous Community what it owed. I told Mrs. Presas that these millions of compensation to the fulfilling communities were because they started to forgive the non-compliant ones, which was done, among other things, to help Catalonia and the nationalists who ruined the Catalan farm, for the solidarity of the rest of Spain with Catalonia. And, indeed, we demand compensation. The key is -- you said -- that they hit a little bit and that Rajoy paid attention to them. Well, if it's so simple, let's get together and ask him...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u275	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u276	...to the Socialist Party that also knocks a little on Mr. Sánchez's door and makes the transfers of the 700 million corresponding to Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u277	Thank you. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u278	After the debate on the non-legislative proposals, we proceed to the vote. We begin by voting on the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Ms Olalla Rodil, on the demand by the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the transfer to Galicia of competences in the field of the management of scholarships for study, as well as the corresponding economic resources. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members, on the demand by the Government of Greece to the central government for the transfer to Galicia of competences in the field of the management of scholarships for the study, as well as the corresponding economic resources. The voting was as follows: votes in favour,64. The voting is positive. This non-law proposal is therefore adopted by 64 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u279	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Tellado. Amendments to the Joint Parliamentary Group and to the Socialist Parliamentary Group are not accepted. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and eight other Members, on the demand of the Greek Government to the central government for the programming of the necessary workload for the shipyards of Navantia in Ferrol. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 66. The voting is positive. This non-law proposal is therefore adopted by 66 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u280	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Ms. Maria Monserrat Prado Cores, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the closing of beds during the summer months in the Sergas hospital and the referral of patients to private health. If the amendment of the Joint Parliamentary Group is accepted. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Monserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the German Government in relation to the closing of beds during the summer months in the Sergas hospital and the derivation of patients to private health. The voting was as follows: voting in favour, 27; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u281	We now vote on the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Ms Maria Luisa Pierres, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the attention of the consultations relating to the processing of projects and the processing of files in the provincial services of Cultural Heritage. He stated that if he accepted a point of amendment from the En Marea Parliamentary Group as an addendum.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u282	The third point is accepted as an addendum.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u283	Thank you. [[Madam Cuña Bóveda asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Cuña?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u284	We call for a point vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u285	They call for a point of order. Do you accept the point-by-point vote?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u286	So we would vote separately on the third point, and 1 and 2 as they are.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u287	Thank you. Let's vote first, so point 3. Vote of point 3 of the proposed non-law of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Luisa Pierres López and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the attention of the consultations relating to the processing of projects and the processing times of the files in the provincial services of Cultural Heritage. The voting was as follows: voting in favour, 27; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This point is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u288	Let us now vote on the remaining points of this non-law proposal. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, except point 3, at the initiative of Da María Luisa Pierres López and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the attention of the consultations related to the processing of projects and the processing times of the files in the provincial services of Cultural Heritage. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 39; abstentions,9. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u289	We are now voting on the Non-Law Proposition of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Ms. Julia Torregrosa, on the demand that the Government of Greece should make to the Central Government in relation to the price of housing rental. The amendment of the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block Galego is accepted and not that of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Mrs. Torregrosa Sanñudo asks for the floor.]] Yeah? Give a voice to Mrs. Torregrosa's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u290	We accept the vote on points requested by the PSdeG.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u291	How many points does the proposition have?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u292	In the end, I'd have to add the two amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u293	So this is the last point of the end? I mean, how many points does the bill have? How much? [[Murmurs.]] I ask the number. One? [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] How do you say you accept the last point...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u294	Yes, three paragraphs
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u295	Then it's a paragraph. All right!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u296	Sure.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u297	Then accept the last paragraph.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u298	The two separate additions but the original one.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u299	Okay. It was better for points. That was easier.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u300	Now see what Mr. Castineira says. Give a voice to Mr. Castineira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u301	Yes, it's simply to clarify, because in principle the amendments would not be accepted. Now they're accepted and then I think we should explain our vote and position. Here are two questions. There is, on the one hand, the original initiative, with which, logically, we do not agree under any concept. There's a BNG initiative that consists of two points. It's an amendment that happens to be an addition. As far as the first point is concerned, of course we're against it. With regard to the second point, the amendment of the PSOE — which would be a substitute and now goes on to add — has been the same as the second point of the BNG, and it is the same as that which was agreed upon and approved in the past in an initiative of this group to which I represent. So our justification is that we're not going to vote on those points in favour because they're already approved and you already know about them in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u302	We're sinking. So, Mrs. Torregrosa, do you have anything to say to me?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u303	By the way, the first would be our resolution, point 1. Point 2 would be the full adds of BNG. And what Mrs. Pierres asked is that, instead of substitution, we should add yours as well. And we accept.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u304	We voted for that transaction you just read. [[Strong murmurers.]] But there are no points! See, Mr. Bará, are there points or not? [[Murmurs.]] Now there are points, okay! Well, you'll tell me if this isn't a little complicated! So, what points do you want to separate—separate, say, paragraphs—? What do you want to separate, Mrs. Pierres?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u305	Ours at least.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u306	Sorry! I don't hear anything. One and two together and the third separately? [[Strong murmurers.]] Is that worth it, Mrs. Pierres? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Leicega?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u307	We want to vote separately on the original paragraph, which will be point 1 of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u308	Do you accept that, Mrs. Torregrosa? He wants to vote the paragraph separately. Excuse me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You'd better put points in the next one. It's much easier when they put points, because this is a big complication. Now she realizes. Yeah? [[Murmurs.]] Okay. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's vote. Amending final paragraph is accepted. Mr. Castineira, do you understand? The final paragraph shall be changed. Does this affect you? No, no, no, no. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Then we vote. [[Murmurs.]] We voted as he said. First of all, it's better to clarify the House. We voted, Mr. Leicega, as agreed, by modifying the final paragraph as you proposed. That's what you asked for. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If not, there are points. [[Murmurs.]] Wouldn't it be better if you talked to me who had the initiative? I think it's best for me to clarify myself, because if everyone talks to me... Mrs. Torregrosa, please clarify me how we should vote. Let me state how we should vote once this has been, it seems, made up of points.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u309	Of course, it doesn't matter, we can do Mrs. Pierres's point aside, if that's what they want, or our point aside.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u310	No, I mean, that's not...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u311	Don't you? Yes, the first point, which is ours, aside.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u312	Tell me about points. How many points do you have now...?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u313	The original point of the separate initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u314	One point. What else? The rest of it together?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u315	Add it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u316	Well, that's what Mr. Cal was saying from the beginning and it wasn't worth it. So, first of all, we vote on point number one. And the rest of the points after. Let's vote point one. Look at us turning it around! Vote of point 1 of the proposed non-law G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Julia Torregrosa Sañudo and two other Members, on the demand to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government in relation to the price of housing rental. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 39; abstentions, 9. The result of the vote is negative. This point of the text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u317	We now vote on the rest of the points. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de In Marea, except point 1, at the initiative of Da Julia Torregrosa Sanñudo and two other Members, on the demand that the Government of Greece should make to the Central Government in relation to the price of housing rental. The voting was as follows: voting in favour, 27; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u318	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Mrs Paula Quinteiro, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in connection with the invitations to assist its members in the rounds. Sorry, it was Mr. Marcos Cal's initiative. There's a deal, I've got it around here. This one's easier to read. Attention to the transaction, please! The proposed transaction says the resolution is maintained, with a BNG addition in the first part. And also a text that is: "The Galician Parliament calls on the Galician Union to promote a law prohibiting the towers for being a spectacle of animal abuse and alien to the Greek tradition." And add that PSdEG amendment. This is what happened to us. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, give a voice to Mr. Cal's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u319	The text you read is the first part of the BNG amendment. It would be the first part.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u320	It's better by points. Please, if they put points, this would be much easier. Yeah, man, yeah, by points, 1, 2, 3, 4... and they trade points. It's a lot easier, 1, 2, 3, 4, so it's a little piece of paper, "change me a text," "change me a coma..." That's very complicated, it's very difficult. So, what's the matter in the end? Give a voice to Mr. Cal's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u321	It seems to you, Mr President, we make three points. The first point would be our proposal; the second point would be the part of the addition of the BNG; and the third point would be the proposal of the PSdEG. And we accept the vote by points that the PSdeG asks us to do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u322	All right. All of them separately? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Sorry, number two separately? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We voted, firstly, point 2, which is the amendment of the BNG. Vote of point 2 of the proposed non-law of the G.P. Mr de In Marea, on the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and two other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in connection with the invitations to attend to the tour. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 39; abstentions, 9. The result of the vote is negative. This point is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u323	Let's vote for the rest of the points now. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. In Marea, except point 2, at the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and two other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in connection with the invitations to attend to the tour. The voting was as follows: voting in favour, 27; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u324	We are now voting on the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Ms Patricia Vilán, on the adoption by the Government of Greece of measures, including those of training and awareness-raising, to reduce the presence of waste on the beaches and seabeds of Galicia in order to recover biodiversity and marine ecosystems. No amendments were tabled. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and two other Members, on the adoption by the Greek Government of measures, including those of training and awareness, to reduce the presence of waste on the beaches and seabeds of Galicia in order to recover biodiversity and marine ecosystems. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 66. The voting is positive. This non-law proposal is therefore adopted by 66 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u325	Finally, we voted for the People's Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mrs Paula Prado del Río, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the transfer to the Autonomous Community of Galicia of the seven hundred million euros committed for this year. Amendments to the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Galicia and the Socialist Group are not accepted. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Paula Prado del Río and 13 other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the transfer to the Autonomous Community of Galicia of the seven hundred million euros committed to the year. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 57; abstentions, 9. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u326	They finished voting here and we suspended the session until four o'clock.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u327	Good afternoon. We restart the session with item 5 of the agenda, interpelerations. La Noa Presas Bergantiños and five other members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to the protection of the people of Galicia using financial products
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u328	To formulate the inquiry, Mrs. Noa Presas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u329	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, it's been ten years since several real estate bubbles broke out in 2008-2009 and a period of profound transformations into the financial system, a decade characterized by an intense crisis and also by movements that have made changes in their composition and role. And from any point of view, we can say that little has to do with today's financial institutions with those ones, and also with the failure of international and state regulations. This decade, which coincided in addition to the Feijóo decade, was also characterized by the complicit silence of the Government of Galician Union, a government that has permitted and also encouraged the disappearance of this country's financial muscle. And today we can ask ourselves — over this time — what is the balance of Nuñez Feijóo in front of this situation. And the truth is, it's quite a waste. First of all, we can remember how the Government quietly aligned itself with those measures of banking restructuring which have committed the People's Party and the Socialist Party, which, far from being the solution, had new problems. Because the problems of lack of regulation and lack of control were precisely more deregulation and less control by the public authorities. And this to Mr. Feijóo seemed great. Secondly, we must also remember that it was part of that process of banking and privatization of the Greek boxes. There's still a lot of things we don't know today. In fact, we have in this Parliament a commission of frozen and paralysed investigation by the People's Party, which denies the truth to the Greeks and to the Greeks. But what we do know is that it was a scandalous sale, and that it was given at the balance price to the Venezuelan capital. Even though it was rescued with more than 9,000 million euros, it was sold only for 1 billion euros, which were recovered only with the benefits of the first year. It's a deal! The truth is, you may be proud, Counselor. Thirdly, we must also remember that the balance of these ten years leaves us, on the one hand, to the ultimate loss of the galeguity of our financial fabric. Today we can say, for example, that there is not a single bank with decision-making capacity since Galicia. And on the other hand, bank concentration levels also get shot. Today they are the Germans of any state or European media. This, in short, Counselor, is the balance of a failure that has had many episodes. Let's remember that in 2012 it culminated in the absorption of the Banco Pastor by the Popular, refounded again as a subsidiary; in 2013 Sabadell absorbed the Banco Gallego; and in 2017 there was this definitive step on which we could see that, at the price of a coffee with milk, the Banco Popular was bought by Santander — in turn, it must be remembered that this bank had already absorbed the Pastor. We also warned then that the consequences of these movements would be long. And today, two years later, still this morning, workers and workers were concentrated who are going to be fired, affected and affected by an ERE that means the dismissal of nearly 300 jobs in our country and the closure of offices of an entity that earns multi-millionaire benefits. In short, Mr Counsellor, the balance sheet of this decade in terms of financial health, from our point of view, shows, firstly, the absolute futility of this Government to defend the interests of the country and also of consumers; secondly, the failure of this banking restructuring process, that scam which cost us more than 64,000 million euros than we are not going to recover all of them; and thirdly, as a result, in conclusion, of the financial weakness that affects us, which affects the productive fabric of that country and also affects consumers, it is sufficient to see the evolution of the credit as well. And with this system, in short, the country loses, and they lose both those and consumers. Today we wanted to focus precisely on the subject of radiography and the balance sheet that we can actually make of the consumer protection policy and also on their access to financial services. It is increasingly difficult to access because we must take into account, on the one hand, the failure of the legal framework for protection and the inaction of the Galician Union — which I would like to remind you that it has exclusive competences in the field of trade and consumption — and, on the other hand, the closure of offices, which is a loss of employment but also an increase in the vulnerability of consumers and social exclusion. First of all, I will focus on the failure of that policy of protection and the inaction of the Galician Union. It is obvious that in recent years all of us have been able to watch these financial sector scandals through abusive practices, opaque clauses and complex products. We remember in this country all the living with the preferences, but also, more recently, with the ground clauses, with the case of parts of the Pastor's actions and subsequent Santander bonds; and even with bohorno shows of convivance between powers — which should be separated — with the tax of mortgages, and a long et cetera. As a result of social mobilization and political pressure, it is true that steps have been taken to advance regulation and protection by both European and State institutions, and to take action. The truth is, beyond support measures, the Greeks highlighted their lack of ambition. But today we can also conclude that this has been absolutely insufficient. This is a conclusion that is easily drawn by seeing the degree of litigiousness that still exists today, or the conclusions that consumer associations themselves or even entities such as the Ombudsman transmit. An example of this is what happened with the Code of Good Practice. We were already critical and critical when this code saw the light, because we understood that volunteering involved the starting position. But today, seeing the latest reports, because the claims are growing, the requests from Galicia are diminished, the actions without payment and the debt restructurings are also diminished. And this proves it doesn't work. And the Banco de España itself warned of non-compliances and even initiated sanctions proceedings against entities for their non-compliance. And while we don't know what the German Government thinks about whether or not it meets the Code of Good Practice. Just be a mere spectator and we don't know what you think of the matter. We could also talk about what I have assumed — or rather, rather, what I have not — the transposition of MiFID II, that transposition which the Rajoy Government has delayed and which has even been the subject of judicial complaints at European level. But the fact is that today we can test in the territory that the impact of toxic assets continues, that entities are increasingly more product-placers, due to banking concentration, than credit providers, as they have been a few years ago. And, therefore, we note with concern that neither does the Galician Union have to say anything at all. There is no increase in resources to monitor this issue, there is no increase in financial education measures. And we have, in short, a Galego Institute of Consumption that does a good job, that we value positively, but that we believe that it is absolutely underdeveloped and underdeveloped, as underdeveloped is also our consumer legislation. And this situation we're reporting, we understand that it's further aggravated by a growing phenomenon, which is the closure of offices. That — as I say — is a loss of employment — more than 5,000 jobs in the bank in the last decade. But it also has an immediate consequence: not only that loss of employment — which, in addition, is becoming more and more precarious employment in the banking sector and this introduces new problems — but it increases the objective conditions that can foster an increase in consumer vulnerability and also financial exclusion. Because this reduces the ability to attend and also reduces its quality — the precariousness — as well. It must be remembered that Galicia has lost 40% of its banking institutions since 2008 and that this is what the Banco de España itself says, which also informs us that there are 41 municipalities in this country that do not have any banking entities. This is problematic. We have brought it to this Parliament many times, we have been discussing this matter on numerous occasions, and the fact is that the People's Party was set up in denial at first. They said that with the question of digitization this would be solved. It's true that there is a part that can be solved by scanning. But they're no less certain — we also discussed yesterday in the Digital Administration Act — the difficulties in accessing the Internet in our territory, some difficulties that in some cases are due to a lack of digital literacy, which must also be taken into account. And we also have to say that this does not replace face-to-face counseling. So this question concerns us and we're a little bit foolish, because we've just seen how the Greek Government does nothing to how it does something that, from our point of view, doesn't make much sense. We spent a few days ago that at the Board of Directors you said that, well, the solution to which multi-millionaire banking institutions — I want to remember that, for example, Abanca, which is a majority in our country, had 430 million net benefits in 2018, the highest figure in history — that the solution to which these entities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u330	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u331	... close offices and close drawers, is that the Galician Board wants to pay them with public money. Because it must seem to you that 9,000 million euros of ransom is little. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Finally, Counsellor, in the diagnosis of a part of the problems I think we will be able to agree, but we also want to open a debate today about which must be the alternatives to a concern, which is that the lack of protection for the people and consumers of this country continues and that you continue to look again to the other side. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u332	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u333	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, regrettably the intervention that has just been made in this Parliament, which would only be useful in transferring political science students to what must never be done by a parliamentarian in a parliament, never! [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Strong murmurers.]] Madam Presas, you can only interpret your intervention in two ways: either you have bad faith or you have an absolute lack of knowledge of the functioning of the financial system in Spain and the European Union. I find it regrettable that you come here to confuse and intend to link the action of a government of any autonomous community in Spain with the functioning of the Spanish and European banking system. And that, Mrs. Presas, is simply a symptom that you or you have bad faith because you want to confuse the citizens of Greece or that you simply have no knowledge of what you're talking about. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] You know perfectly well that the regulation of the financial system is a state and European competence — you know — and that, therefore, both the Bank of Spain and the National Securities Market Commission are those which have assigned control and supervision of financial entities and products in Spain. With this you already have a complete amendment to your entire intervention, Mrs. Presas, all in all. And I think it is unfortunate that you come here attempting to link the action of the Council of Galicia with the performance of the Government of Spain and the Government of the European Union in its powers. If you want to speak with knowledge of the facts, you should at least talk about reality and therefore not draw any kind of conclusions that you simply want to confuse and that you want to link the action of a government in the Council of Galicia to the competences that you have, at national and European level in this case, on the financial system. Therefore, Mrs. Presas, regrettably your intervention, as I have just said, has no validity whatsoever. Surely you — and you have many references and you have many references in your political party — intend to set up here in Spain, or in the European Union, the models of Venezuela's financial system, for example, because this is not the first time they move that idea. Well, I'm telling you, this government clearly does not participate in that vocation. [[Murmurs.]] His intervention, of course, is worthy of any kind of populist government, but it has no place in a democratic parliament as it is the Greek and as it is Spanish. You tell me about the Galego Institute of Consumption and Competition. You know perfectly well that the Galego Institute of Consumer and Competition has only the ability to advise on the procedure that is regulated for bank customers. Because he knows perfectly well that, when a consumer has to file a complaint from a bank point of view, he has to file with the financial institution itself and that, in his case, it is the Banco de España that has the powers to defend consumers in any kind of action linked to the financial system. In no case — I repeat, in no case — has the powers of the Galego do Consumo Institute or no consumer institute in Spain. He knows, therefore, that claims to the customer services or departments in the institutions are the scope of action that consumers have. And if you don't answer in due time, it has to be the Banco de España that solves this situation. You know it perfectly well. Why do you want to confuse? Why? What dark interest leads her to pretend to confuse the Greeks? Surely if you had a greater knowledge of the functioning of the system, you wouldn't fall into these conceptual errors, which, unless you have bad faith, have no other kind of explanation. You tell me about the Code of Good Practice. By the way, code that was approved by a government of the People's Party. If I didn't know, it was Mariano Rajoy's government that approved this Code of Good Practice for Mortgage Debts on the usual housing. And you know perfectly well that this royal decree provides for the control, follow-up and supervision of the fulfilment of a commission that is constituted for this purpose. I'll remind you of the members of that commission, which you seem obvious or you don't want to move here. The Ministry of Economy, the Bank of Spain, the National Commission for the Market in Values, a judge appointed by the General Council of the Judiciary, a judicial secretary appointed by the Ministry of Justice, a notary appointed by the General Council of the Notary, a representative of the National Institute of Statistics, another of the Spanish Mortgage Association, a representative of the National Council of Consumers and Users and two of the associations that carry out reception work. These are the members in charge of this commission to follow up the Code of Good Practice, which, as you will understand, must act and forward all information to the Committee on the Economy and Competitiveness of Congress. I don't think I'd see any representative of any autonomous community there, because we just don't have the skills. And when you don't have the skills, logically you can't participate in that, which doesn't take away the Galician Consumer Institute from acting in defense of consumers. The Galician Institute for Consumer Affairs and Competition informs, of course, that it advises and clearly resolves conflicts within the scope of its competence. And of course, when required, we act additionally and intensively to resolve the doubts of the Greeks when financial issues arose. I mean, in particular, the preference. And I refer, also in concrete terms, to the actions he had to develop the Galician Consumer Institute to inform and advise in the case of ground clauses. Of course, he acted at the Galego Institute of Consumption and Competition, because that is a responsibility to inform and advise; a different question is that he has the competences to process them. We did it in 2012 with the preferences creating a free arbitration procedure copied in the rest of Spain. And we did it too, Mrs. Presas, in 2016 with the ground clauses, being also pioneers in the launch of an information and training programme. Finally, Your Honor, please refer to moving those matters that you consider appropriate with a minimum of knowing. But you know perfectly well that the powers in the field of operation, supervision and control of the financial system have Spain and the European Union, and in no case the Autonomous Community. I see you don't care. But what should matter to you is not to confuse the Greeks and not at any time to bind the Government of this Unity of Galicia with the powers which are not assigned to you. So what we do is we defend consumers and defend the Greeks when there are issues that lead to confusion. Even from what I see, we also have to defend them from the positions of the Galician Nationalist Block when you intend to come to this Parliament to confuse people. I would only ask you to act with a little bit of responsibility, with a little bit, Mrs. Presas, and to flee from confusing debates that lead to nothing. Of course, the only thing you're looking for is to claim the separatism of the Galician Nationalist Block, surely because you intend to establish financial systems in Galicia like those that exist in Venezuela. But that, of course, is neither the financial system we have in Spain nor the financial system we have in the European Union. [[Murmurs.]] And, unfortunately, with those positions, the only thing they're trying to do is confuse the Greeks. And the Greeks, of course, don't deserve this kind of intervention. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u334	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u335	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Conde, you're really going to talk about Venezuela, eh! You, the ones who gave the boxes of this country the Venezuelan capital for a ridicule that was recovered for profits in the first year after the sale, the same ones who have this frozen investigation commission — sorry, cold — in the Greek Parliament, are going to talk about Venezuela and about this Parliament and the Greeks and the Greeks — said the pod to the boiler. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Well, it seems you've invited us, Mr. Conde, to choose from the BNG if we're installed in bad faith or stupidity. I tell you that in either of these things, in either of these things, don't worry. Then he also said "dark interest," that there was a dark interest, that you did not know what our dark interest was, that the Greek Government had nothing to do with the financial system. I don't know then why we have so much graphic evidence of Mr. Núñez Feijóo with the box managers. Absolutely nothing has to do with the Greek government's financial system. [[Applause]] Of course, it must be one of those aspects in which, although you have now become almost independent with the change of the Central Government, they have decided not to have any opinion. Other things suddenly have opinions, but not in this. Look, Mr. Conde, I really do presume to you bad faith, because, as I presume you already have a lot of knowledge, I do presume to you bad faith. Because you're here to look at how competition is state and European, and it seems you've just discovered that these issues affect our country and you've also discovered that since BNG, we're actually nationalists and we're claiming that Galicia has a voice and action on all these issues as well. Indeed, we claim that we must have the ability to think and also to decide and act as interlocutors on these issues affecting the Greeks and the Greeks, such as the increase in toxic assets, such as all these types of banking crates, or how the action and omission of the Greek Government has weakened the financial muscle of this country until it is in an almost exhausted position. You are also the highest political responsibility in economic matters. You should worry a little about that, because you know that the industrial impulse of this country will actually be hypothesized while these are the conditions. There's also something you'll have to say about all these regulations that affect us, from the MiFID II, for example, to which you haven't mentioned. Of course, it must be because neither, when you dealt with Congress, your deputies said anything. But, of course, that affects us very much. What concerns me, of course, is that you're talking here at the Galician Consumer Institute and that, I don't know, less already they tell us that it's a decorative object, that there's nothing you can do. I don't know if it won't be you who haven't read the DOG, the decree that drives it, and the law of consumption in Wales. Because he has advisory skills and he has expertise in research as well. [[Applause]] No one here spoke of any judicial proceedings. Now, we also argue that the right thing would be to involve itself in seeking non-judicial resolutions on these issues, as was done in the preferences due to social pressure and that you did not want to do in the case of ground clauses. Also on the issue of the Code of Good Practice, I believe that, in order for you to be so strict, you have not been attentive. Because I told you exactly about the data that this follow-up commission is on the state front, but I also told you that that code was born failed, it was born bankrupt because entities are not forced to apply it. And so that the very ones who voluntarily, by cosmetics matter, adhere to him are being punished by the Banco de España. Something you'll have to say to the Welsh Government, something you'll have to say, if you throw a Welshman or a Welshman out of your house by violating that Code of Good Practice, something you'll have to say to the Galician Union, and something you'll have to propose, in the name of the Welsh people and the Greeks, so that those issues don't happen, Mr. Count. So you should also have an opinion on this matter. And finally, because it's a lot of questions, you haven't made any reference to the impact that you're having on the quality of the Greek financial care and you're talking about the decisions that the bank is taking, which is closing financial institutions for seeking the maximum benefit while leaving many places unattended. You know that the main and most problematic question that this happens is, on the one hand, that personalised attention, and, on the other hand, something that is obvious: that when they close banking institutions they usually close these boxes that are found in their facilities and, therefore, there is a problem with access to credit, with access to cash. And you know that mostly, according to the Spanish Bank's own survey, the Greeks and the Greeks, as in the rest of the state, still prefer -- 53% -- the form of cash payment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u336	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u337	And, therefore, in front of that, the magic solution is not that the board goes from negationism to saying, "Oh, yes, there must be a cashier in every county at least, and we'll pay it with the money of the Greeks and the Greeks." That's not the point, Mr. Count. You'll have to push some sort of negotiation with those banking entities, with which so many pictures are taken, so that that doesn't happen and that doesn't cost us money. In short, there are many challenges as to how this new form of banking relationship affects the Greeks and the Greeks, from the everyday question of our life, which is to get money to buy a bread bar, to a much more complex one.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u338	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u339	And what's regrettable, what's truly regrettable, is that there's a government that comes here dressed in opposition from the opposition to make its scapegoat instead of bringing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u340	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u341	...a single alternative to this situation. We bring her to our motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u342	Let's make it clear that the counselor didn't use the word "stupidity." Yes, yes, we're going to make it clear, because if you'd used the word "stupidity," I'd have to remove it! [[Murmurs.]] I understand you've spoken of bad faith and confusion. Of confusion, of trying to confuse, not of stupidity. Yeah, yeah, he said he said you were stupid. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, stupidity, you mentioned from here the word "stupidity." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, stupidity, you mentioned from here the word "stupidity." Let's just leave this thing there. Yeah, I heard, I just heard her. [[Protests.]] Please, I just heard her. Yes, referring to what the counsellor said about you saying stupid things. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's it! [[Murmurs.]] No, this matter has been clarified. [[Murmurs.]] It's clear to me. I won't give you the floor. You have the counsellor's reply. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo asks for the floor.]] No, I'm not giving it to her. Ask for the word, but on what basis does the article ask for the word? I'm not correcting... sorry, no, no... understanding people. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Strong murmurers.]] I'm not correcting anyone. No, sorry, no. [[Murmurs.]] Well, then they're misunderstanding. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] When you spoke from the rostrum, you mentioned that the councilman had said that if you said you were stupid... yes, I understood that. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And what I told him was that the word "stupidity" had never been mentioned. Well, he stayed there, he didn't mention stupidity and period. No, based on the common sense. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Based on the article of common sense of correcting that. [[Strong murmurers.]] [[Strong murmurers.]] Shut up. Quiet, please! Please, the thing won't go any further. Gentlemen, please, isn't it a matter of "based on what articles?", it is based on the common sense. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Punto! It's over! [[Murmurs.]] Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u343	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Presas, a great example of the policy you are trying to move to this country is a separatism which is anachronistic, and which, unfortunately, is not part of the political initiatives neither of this Government nor of most of the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u344	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u345	Indeed, Mrs Presas, unlike the Galician Nationalist Block, the Government of Galicia, and, as I told you, most of the Greeks and Greeks felt comfortable in Spain and felt comfortable in Europe. We clearly see that you don't feel comfortable. But regardless of political discrepancies, we try to defend Galicia's interests. And we share the European project, we share the European project of common coexistence with the rest of the Union's member countries, where we belong to a single market which has common rules and which these rules are enabling us to live together. And from a financial point of view, these powers are - as you well know - in the European Union and also in the state. That's why, Mrs. Presas, when you talk to me about financial regulation and you intend to link financial regulation to Galician Union actually or you have bad faith or you have no knowledge of matter. You'll know where he wants to be. In any case, you, in your inquiry, pose the functioning of the financial system and you know perfectly well that this is not a matter of consumption, and you intend again to confuse with your intervention. I have provided you with information on the Code of Good Practice — which, by the way, has been approved, as I have already moved to Congress, on the initiative of the People's Party. And also explain to him what you know: that the Galician Union and the Galician Institute of Consumer and Competition are always defending consumers' rights, the rights of the Greeks and the Greeks. Therefore, 714 consultations related to the financial sector were held in 2018. Madam Presas, of course, the Galician Consumer Institute informs, advises and guides the Greek consumers, even though these claims have to be channelled through the Banco de España. We are advising on this procedure and we are acting in all cases where the Institute has competence, and also in those which logically allow advice on the different procedures. You ask me for data from the Code of Good Practice. Of course we're acting. He knows there are 93 affiliated entities that process those applications. And you should know — and I should probably transfer that data — that the balance sheet on that commission is more than 54,000 operations carried out — 54,000, Mrs Presas! — of which 46,827 ended with outstanding debt restructuring; 10, with a discharge; and about 8,000, with payment agreement. You're talking to me about the transposition of the directive regulating the markets in financial instruments. He knows that he has been transpired through Royal Decree Law 14/2018. And you know it was validated at the Congress of Deputies with 270 votes in favour. I don't know why he also intends to move confusion about the support this transposition had from the different parliamentary groups. Finally, Mrs Presas, if you want to talk about financial instruments, let's talk about it. But let's talk about who has the competences and knowing perfectly who's also defending consumers. The powers of regulation, supervision and control are nationally and at European level. And he also knows that consumers in the Banco de España have the instrument to defend their interests. And the Galego Institute of Consumption and Competition will be, as it has been and is present to defend interests by informing, advising and guiding consumers in those cases that need their guidance. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u346	Thank you, Counselor. Mr Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and two other Members of the G.P. of Marea on Youth Farmers Management
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u347	Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u348	Thank you, President. Welcome, Counselor. We ask him again about Juan Pérez Miramontes because, despite his answer when we came to ask him the previous question, we believe that if they have to give a lot of explanations on this subject, not just a lot of them. Neither the People's Party is any party, it is the party of the Government — the only party of the Government — nor can Miramontes be understood as a particular, as you said in your intervention. Miramontes is the former president of an agricultural union who received a lot of public money from the Galician Union while you were in government. And, besides, Miramontes, of course, has an obvious connection with his party. The samples of this are public, they're documented. There's a lot of pictures of the boat rides Mariano Rajoy, who made Ana Pastor, who made many other directors. There's also a lot of news about the great rally that organized the Fraga. And, as I say, above all, he also received a lot of public money, he made misuse of that public money, and you looked systematically elsewhere, as if he hadn't been with you. The most current issue, and of what we also want to ask you first, despite the fact that you didn't want to answer us, is that you know that Miramontes has recently been arrested on the grounds of funding a network of trafficking in women's sexual exploitation. Besides, we knew that this network stole a baby from one of the women to give it into illegal adoption. And we ask him again, because you have to get out of the way. The only thing we know so far about the views of the German Government on this subject is that the President wished this man luck and said absolutely nothing more. He said he didn't care at all. For us these statements are intolerable, they are a lack of respect for all women. And we understand that they have to correct. And we want you to answer us today if you agree with these words. Will you wish Mr Miramontes luck too? With the obvious links that exist, and with such a serious subject as this, we understand that, saying that they don't care at all, they make quite clear what their priorities are. On the other hand, they've had many other occasions to get rid of Miramontes. Because it's not the first time this man is news. Many years ago it was news of the misuse of the grants received by the Galician Union. And we don't say that. The Board of Auditors itself made it very clear: it did not respect the processes and it also influenced the costs of some of the real estate that were acquired — the Board of Auditors was very clear — and what it did was to swallow a private credit with the heritage that is of all, with the public heritage of the Union. And Junta at that time looked elsewhere -- and we didn't say it, too, said the Board of Auditors -- because at that time you said you didn't know about the link between these buildings and the former president. It's a lie. I knew it perfectly. They've received the notice and they've done absolutely nothing. It's not isolated either from the locals, the Miramontes himself said that the hiring of companies of family and friends was done, that he had nothing wrong because it was better to get into the house known. And while all these statements were made — which I didn't even hide — you kept giving him public money without any control. He was also denounced for defaults, and he had a lot of work complaints, while he was showing off all his money, cars, yachts, and many other issues. And you, as you looked at all these clues, did nothing at all. Recently, President Feijóo said that if there were signs of irregularities, he would be willing to open an investigation and carry out the necessary audits. I think it's obvious that they are already more than clues, and then we also want to ask you whether this time you're going to open some research, whether you're going to analyze how these subsidies were made and why you've used these subsidies — that you're already found by the Board of Auditors yourself, because the locals know perfectly well that they weren't used for agricultural use, how the agreement was collected — or if you're really not going to do anything. If you really have nothing to hide, if you really want to demonstrate so much transparency, then prove it, come here and realize about all the subsidies, which are specified year by year. And we have to tell him that we expect him to be a little more rigorous in his intervention today. Because the other day -- not only in his intervention -- they also hung up on his own website -- a press release talking about the question, which is an unusual procedure, but they must be very concerned about selling his story. I would ask him to be a little strict, without mixing all the issues, because we asked him for a union where there are irregularities. To talk about the rest of the unions we talk about whenever you want, but it wasn't the question. Because in the rest of the unions there were no signs of irregularities, so we asked you about Youth Farmers. We would ask him to stick to the question today, because we believe he uses that to escape and to pass the time and not answer the questions we ask him. He also mixed in making it the same as the agreements that these unions signed during the Bipartite with assignment of sites that he knows perfectly well that they were sites that were heritage that had previously the agricultural chambers, which was not that they had given them two million euros because of it. It's not that that grant had been increased in abstract. It was an assignment, an agreement, that nothing has to do with direct subsidies. And then I would also ask him, when he speaks, to speak with rigour. And if you talk about subsidies, you talk about subsidies, but you don't put the agreements in the same bag, because you know perfectly well that they are very different things. And finally, he came here to say — as if it were a political decision — that he stopped funding Youth Farmers in 2014. He said it here and he was the headline of his press release. It is to come to laugh — in fact — at the whole of this Parliament. How would they finance an organization that at that time was no longer aware of payments, which was already systematically jammed locals, which was not paying their workers? Well, obviously they couldn't finance them because they couldn't afford it by their own law. So they don't say here that they stopped funding Youth Farmers in 2014, as if it were a decision, when they couldn't finance them anymore, and that's why they stopped financing them. In fact, when he compares with the rest of the unions to try to sell that there were other unions who received more public money from the administrations, he's also lying and manipulating. Because you know perfectly well that it was exactly the same amount. The only difference is that Youth Farmers stopped receiving money in 2014 because Youth Farmers were going to compete with creditors, and then, of course, they couldn't continue to receive money if they weren't aware of payments. He also said in his intervention that they required the return of two million euros for the purchase of these private-use properties, when the agreement was to be used for activities of agricultural interest. Well, we want it to make clear to us the exact date on which they applied for reintegration and if that reintegration has become effective — that we have already figured out the answer. Because, of course, I'm starting to apply for reintegration more than a year after they've started boarding and selling places, because it's also a joke, when they know perfectly well that they couldn't do that reintegration. So, come here to sell and put in a headline that the Board asked Youth Agriculture to reintegrate two million euros, which this gentleman used for private interests, because it's also a laugh. So we want you to clarify us when you asked for that reinstatement. And if they didn't do it at the same time they found out that these places were selling for another use, why didn't they act right away? Unfortunately, the answer we already know. Because we're not talking about an isolated case, we're talking about the People's Party having been working in the same way for many years, with a caciquil plot that buys favors. And they're with this gentleman who funded election campaigns and put together the electoral campaigns and those interesting myths. [[Murmurs.]] They use public money to do that, to carry out their electoral campaigns. Because, as I say, it's not an isolated fact. That's their conception of democracy, they've been showing it for a long time. And they use this Parliament to lie, because he lied the other day, he manipulated. So I ask you today two things that I think are your duty as advisor: to answer what you are asked and not to talk about issues that nothing has to do with... well, you notice that this matter bothers you, because, of course, they have a lot to hide. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But there's no problem, because if there's nothing to hide, they have everything in their hand. Make a clear audit of all the subsidies that this union has taken and, if they have nothing to hide, they will publicly release this gentleman. Why don't they publicly demarcate a gentleman who has just been arrested for funding a women's trafficking network? Well, we understand that it's very simple the things that should be done if there really are no links. But the bonds, as you know, in this case are already public, there are many photographs and lots of graphic evidence. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u349	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Answer from the Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u350	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, every day here, in this Parliament, I learn new things. I thought the interrogations were to ask questions to the government members and they answered. But you did the interrogation and already gave me the answers, too. With which, well... and then, speaking of rigour, I'll try to stick to the questions of interpellation. He asked as many as fifteen more questions, but they're asked in the interpellation. Ladies and gentlemen, we're seeing each other again today, and, like what we were dealing with in that fantastic movie starring Bill Murray, On Marmot Day, we're talking about the same thing a few months ago. In this case it is an extended version of the question seen at the end of April, since it is now an interpellation. I have no problem talking about this, because today, like that day, I will provide all the available data, in that desire for transparency that we have as the Government of the Council of Galicia. The first question of the inquiry is about the relations of Youth Farmers with the People's Party. It is true that this time, unlike the April initiative, you clarify that the People's Party is the party that is in Galicia. But again I must also clarify that the Council of Galicia is the Government, we are people of a political party who now represent executive power. But not because we're the same people. We're the same organ. I am not a spokesman for the People's Party in this case. In this Parliament is Mr Puy. I can speak as Galician Union and I want you to be sure that I will answer as Galician Union. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's okay, Mr. Lago, that I'm going to give you data with rigour. I don't want to go beyond my competences, and considering that I can respond to an organization from which I'm not a spokesman would undoubtedly do a job that I'm not responsible for. I'm going to give all the data — as if asked in the interpellation — of the aid that the Rural Council gave to the Youth Farmers professional association, but also to other similar unions, so that we all have the context of what was done with the unions and what is done with the unions — that we have to support them — and we can compare this supposed treatment of favor with what you accuse us of. You'll see, you'll have evidence, when the intervention is over, that the data speaks for itself. The year in which Youth Farmers' professional association received more help from the Government of the United States was 2008. I was in the government the Bipartite. In that year they received EUR 850,000. During the four years of the Bipartite, this entity received a total of EUR 2,540,847 — to be clear and rigorous. [[Murmurs.]] This association continued to receive aid, like the other agricultural organizations, when the People's Party entered the Government of the Union, in particular until 2014. And at that time it received €2,389,558 — I repeat, as is done with all agricultural organisations that meet the legally established requirements. We must also point out that this association, during the People's Party's Government, was opened up with different reintegration files when it was found that the reintegration files could be opened. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we are in a rule of law and there are procedures we have to follow. In this case, the reintegration file was opened for failure to comply with the destination of the sites acquired for the maintenance of activities of agricultural interest. See, the total of the reintegration required in these files amounts to EUR 2,100,912 — made by the People's Party. That is, if we add up the total received from the Government of the Party — EUR 2.540,847 — and during the early years of the Government of the People's Party — EUR 2,389,558 — they add up to a total of EUR 4,930,406. But if we were to take into account the amount that we demanded him to be reinstated, the total amount wouldn't reach the 3 million. And what happened with the other trade unions, with the Galician Labour Union, with Agricultural Unions — I repeat, agricultural organisations that meet the legally established requirements and receive subsidies from the Galician Union as did Youth Farmers while meeting those requirements —? For example, the Galician Labour Union received a total of 2,470,300 euros during the Bipartite; and during the People's Party Government, a total of 2,740,032 euros. Agricultural Unions, on the other hand, during the Bipartite Government, €2.583,651; and during the People's Party Government, €2.593,407. I remember — to put everything in place — that Youth Farmers were forced to return more than 2 million euros. The exact amount I've already given her before, but they were 859,000 members of the Bipartite legislature—i.e., the People's Party demanded the reinstatement of amounts paid by the Bipartite to Youth Farmers—and 1,228,723 from the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, since 2014 there has been no help or near that the Galician Union has made; since 2014, there has been no help. Man, it's been a while! I don't think at that time there wasn't yet in Marea. It is therefore only to record that this association was to which less money it received during the People's Party's Government compared to others in this field. Finally, I remember that this exercise of transparency is always something that is done from the Government of the Union before this Parliament, but that in this particular case, as I explained at the beginning of my appearance, the question is misdirected and I do not wish, nor will I do, beyond my competences. So I answer the question at the part that hits Galician Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u351	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Quinteiro's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u352	Well, even if it wasn't a surprise, I don't really know how it wasn't embarrassing for you to use... at least it would be nice if you listened to me. [[Murmurs.]] We can wait until they stop talking, because I'm talking to him. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The time to stop, right? I'm just saying... Man, because I think I'm...! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It seems to me that... [[Strong murmurers.]] They show respect for this Parliament every day with their reply, with this attitude. That is, it is the worst excuse we have heard in this Parliament. The People's Party has nothing to do with the Government of the People's Party, they're totally different things. It must be the People's Party, a partnership that's dedicated... I don't know what. You don't have to get involved in politics. But, well, going to the subject, he again manipulated and lied. He's talking about the whole union again. Nothing has to do with it, because the rest of the unions did not fraudulently use the aid. Young Farmers used them for private benefits. Young Farmers, with this master in mind, Juan Pérez Miramontes, used the money he had given him for his own personal interest. Then nothing has to do with it. Come tell me! Go back to the year 2014. I'd ask you, at least, not to laugh here at everyone's face. They couldn't give him more subsidies since 2014, they couldn't. It wasn't a decision, the People's Party didn't decide not to give him any more subsidies. They couldn't give them because they were going to come in for creditors and they had debts, they weren't aware of payouts and they were being barred all their places, they weren't paying the workers, etc. So, obviously, they didn't decide not to give him more subsidies and yes to the rest. They just couldn't do anything else. And then he remixes the theme of the Bipartite, which will be very good for a headline but he knows perfectly well that it's a lie. They have nothing to do with subsidies with an agreement for the use of land use real estate, it has absolutely nothing to do with it. The unions made an agreement to give up some spaces that had agricultural cameras so they could then buy other sites for agricultural use. What did the other two unions do? Buy those places for that use. What did Pérez Miramontes do? Buy places for yourself, then sell. Then they were ambushed, and what did you guys do? Absolutely nothing. And he comes here to say that he was required to be repatriated by legal deadlines. It's a lie, it's a lie, and they know it perfectly. And I don't say it, so does the Board of Auditors. More than a year later, when Youth Farmers were already competing for creditors, they come to say, "Please pay me the place now! Man, they're gonna laugh at anyone they want, but at least they're a little embarrassed and dissemble! I could come here and talk, I don't know, something else. I suppose it will be a difficult role to come here to defend such an obvious plot of chaos when they have done absolutely nothing for a long time. As I say, he himself spoke publicly about plugs to friends and family members in companies related to Deputies, for example. He didn't hide, he said publicly. You were looking the other way because you thought you could do absolutely everything. Because they didn't do it only in this case, the cacical network of the People's Party was not, unfortunately, limited to this case. Then at least don't come here and lie so blatantly. 2014 doesn't sound like a joke to you? You don't think it's a joke to say that since 2014 the People's Party has decided not to help Youth Farmers when they couldn't give such help. I think what you have to do now -- and to see if you do something -- is to say if you're going to do something to make it public that heritage that was public or if you're just going to stay with the same canteen to say, no, it's been asked to reintegrate it, but, as you can't do it, because obviously they're in the creditors' contest, you're going to stay there. And it's a lie, and the data is there. When you asked for the reinstatement -- which you didn't say publicly here -- it was more than a year later than when you found out. And Junta, because that's what the locals agreed on, had to know when these places passed the other title. They didn't do anything at the time, and they're going to do it later, when they didn't have any kind of consequence anymore. But there are two things you can do now, and the president said - to which he has answered absolutely nothing -. Are you willing to open an investigation to review the grants that were granted to you and what was the whole process? If they really don't have anything to hide and it was a totally scrupulous subsidy, because they do. We'll bring a motion to this plenary session and see what they vote. I suppose they'll vote in favour if they really don't have anything to hide. And on the other subject he came back not to say a word. It's an insult that the President of the Government, in the presence of a gentleman's arrest for a network of trafficking...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u353	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u354	...you wish him luck and say you don't care at all. And you, again, didn't spend the ten minutes here and didn't say a word. I ask you, please, to tell me what you think. Do you wish Miramontes luck, too? Let it be clear, because what they can't do is to come here and try not to answer absolutely anything we ask them with the excuse that the Government and the People's Party have absolutely nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u355	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Close the interrogation by the Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u356	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm actually a little bit of an impact, because like you said, compulsive liar?, manipulating?, lying?... I gave you data. I think what I did, perhaps, of course, was to go over my data and give up the euro so that there was no doubt that I was giving the right data. And I would simply — and in the calmest possible tone — tell him that, if he talks to me about rigour, I would ask him to ask him to make an inquiry with all those fifteen questions that he has brought here out of the interrogation, to ask me again and we will have to answer him. But ask me, as the first question of the interpellation, what relationship Juan Pérez Miramontes had with the People's Party, the current group of governments in Galicia. I answered him. I understand that, with the fracture of their parliamentary group, they lost part of that originality and innovation in their questions, those of the new politics, and they ask us again the same question they asked us four months ago. I'm an advisor who doesn't hide, I give the data transparently. I have no problem talking about this and other issues. Now, let's talk here about serious crimes, charges and all that, and that I'm asking myself about things that have nothing to do with what I've been dealing with in the interrogation... so again, I'll try to pass this information on. And I want to clarify, as I said earlier, that, on the one hand, there is executive power and, on the other hand, legislative power. So here I am answering as a government, the one we are on the chairs of the first row, which are of blue colour, are not of brown as yours. So we're government. Look, in the first question, question, as I said, by the relationship between a political party and an ancient agricultural union organization. Well, I'm sorry to tell you again that, although I'm a proud member, of course, of the People's Party, as I said before, I'm not your voice. [[Murmurs.]] I answer as a member of the German Government. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In the second question, and he said that he lied here in the aid — I would recommend that he be informed of the aid received by agricultural organizations — I repeat that the year that most aids received Youth Farmers was 2008. I don't blame him. I wasn't here but I don't blame him for 2008 being the year that most aid has received Youth Farmers, more than two and a half million euros. If you want, I'll go back to the previous question to give you the exact data, on the subject of rigor. We remember that, in those four years, the Rural Council, as I say, was in the hands of the Galician Nationalist Block, so the Block could help us to complete that information. The third question says, what date did the Council of Galicia demand the reintegration of young farmers of two million euros? And I also answer that it was September 26, 2015, when the reintegration files could legally be started. And if I'm sorry for not having the exact certainty of the figure, it was more than two million euros — I told you in the first appearance. And he also asks — and I answer the question — why haven't they done it before? Because legally the reintegration files — if you like, we could be here half an hour talking about how a reintegration file is handled — have to be done when reintegration is believed, and in this case reintegration — as we know — has been a failure to comply with the destination of the sites acquired, the maintenance of activities of agricultural interest. And he said: Has the said reinstatement been produced? Reintegrations, as information is provided to us by the Galician Tax Agency, are in their process. Therefore, the debt is alive, and while it is alive and not prescribed, Mrs. Quinteiro, you can claim; therefore, you can recover all that money for the Galician Tax Agency and for all the Greeks and Greeks. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u357	Thank you, Counselor. [[Murmurs.]] The essence of Montesquieu became clear. That's good for everyone, clarity on the matter. [[Murmurs.]] You ask the Government. Let's get started. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. You ask the government! We move on to item 7 of the agenda, you ask the Government. Mr José Manuel Pérez Seco and Mr Raúl Fernández Fernández, from G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the reason why the Galician Union has lagged behind in the payments of funds for Rural Development Programmes (RDPs)
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u358	We begin with the question of Mr. José Manuel Pérez Seco of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u359	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Counsellor, the Galician Rural Development Plan 2014-2020 has an estimated EUR 1.2 billion budget for the seven years of the European Union's programming period, of which 75% is financed by the European Union itself through the Rural Development EAFRD Fund. This fund is responsible for such important measures as promoting good agricultural, environmental, forest management and fire prevention, modernization of agricultural exploitation, ecological agriculture, etc., but since last November 2018 the Union of Galicia, given the administrative chaos of management, has been leading to the paralysis of payments from the EAFRD European funds. The Galician Union owes approximately EUR 90 million to applicants for the various RDP measures, which are already executed and certified by beneficiaries. This unpublished delay in payments is causing financing problems in the farms and in the enterprising businesses of the Italian countryside, which is incuring financial costs, delays in payments to suppliers and even in employment regulation in very serious cases. In addition to these late payments, the normalized presence of the boar, which also increases the consequences and problems to our farmers and farmers, since they are the ones who suffer in their own pocket the damage of this out-of-control boar population. Because the Jabaris, as you know, tear down the plantations that farmers have for their livestock, which produces more costs and less benefits, so the liquidity problems generated in the field by this lack of management contrast with the announcement of the candy and plate of the rural legislation. So we ask the following question: what is the reason why the Galician Union has been late for these payments? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u360	Thank you, Mr. Pérez Seco. Answer from the Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u361	President. Ladies and gentlemen. In order to get into the rural development plan — by the way, 75% of the rural development plan comes from Europe, so much so that we sometimes spend EUR 2,200 million — it is necessary to give a context to its operation, see how it has been over the last few years and thus fully understand the data, and compare it with other autonomys as well. First of all, I would like to point out that the financial execution of the Galician Rural Development Plan in the period 2016-2018, with payments made to different beneficiaries, is EUR 454 million — which is said to be ready — in three years, EUR 454 million. That is to say, we have a running percentage of 38.26%, eight points above the Spanish average; we are the sixth autonomy if we buy with the total of autonomous communities, but if we take those of similar size — which would be the two castles, Extremadura and Andalusia — we are Spain's first autonomous community running the Rural Development Plan. Besides, ladies and gentlemen, we also have an upward pace. Look, in 2016 — Mr Pérez Seco — 95 million because it was the first year of implementation of the Rural Development Plan; in 2017, 167 million; and in 2018, 190 million euros. So we have a good pace of execution. In addition, I must also clarify how the payments of the RDP work from the point of view of the calendar. Annually, PDR payments are concentrated in Galicia in the last two months of the year. This is due to aid planning, because they are processed in advance so that payments can be made at the end of the year. In 2018, the execution of the first ten months was 62.5 million total public expenditure, and in the months of November and December — I remember that in his question he said until November — the payments made were 128 million euros; that is, in November 19.9 million euros and in December 108.2 million euros. That is, of the total paid in these months, 95 million euros — 128 — are from Chapter VII. The parliamentary question refers to the fact that since November 2018 Galician Union has accumulated a debt of more than 90 million. With the data provided, Mr. Pérez Seco, we can say that there is no such debt. I think it is clear, therefore, the essential point of this issue, which is the payment in the last two months of each year. I remember that in recent years we have increased the rate of execution of the PDR and that we are among the six communities in Spain with the highest percentage of financial execution, but if we compare them with those of our size, we are the first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u362	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Pérez Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u363	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor, for the data. I believe in his will. I ask you from the month of November because the people who are waiting to receive that money -- because they had their certifications made, amounts executed and all that -- didn't get this money. If that's what you're telling me, could you tell me how many commitments for payment of the various RDP measures are pending in 2018? When are you getting that money? And if the German Government can assess the economic cost that this entails to the beneficiaries in the existence of the deadlines for claims and loans that they have applied for. I hope these payments can be made as soon as possible, so that these rural people have a little vision of the future and can continue to work and live in rural areas. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u364	Thank you, Mr. Pérez Seco. Close this question, Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u365	President. Ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr. Pérez Seco. I want to repeat the data, of course, so that they are collected with all clarity. We note again that in the period 2016-2018 – this RDP 2014-2020 began to run in 2016 – we have carried out 454 million euros of total public expenditure – I remember that 75% comes from the European Union. 38.26% of the runout percentage, 8 points above the national average, which is 30.89%. In addition, we have, as it could not be otherwise, an upward rate of execution: 96 million in 2016, 167 million in 2017, and 190.6 million in 2018. We would be the ones who would occupy the first place in financial execution compared to the autonomys of our size; if we meet all of the autonomys, we are in sixth place. In addition, I repeat that most payments are usually produced by the dynamics of subsidies in November and December. That is, in 2018 — until you ask the question, until October — in the first three quarters the execution was 62.5 million euros; however, in the last two months, to reach 190 we had to run 128 million euros. If they were telling us about a 90 debt and we paid 128, there's no debt. Finally, I would like to make a reflection to all Members, especially those with financial expertise. The advances in subsidies received by our farmers and farmers are one of the lowest-interested financial products in Galicia. Why? Because they have the guarantee of grants with European funds, and besides — and this is good news — because of the low maturity of our farmers and livestock. I was upset to ask three financial entities what was the average cost of anticipating a subsidy of these characteristics in Galicia, do you know how much it is? 0.5%. That is, if we have to anticipate a grant of EUR 30,000 a year — because we need to pay those emergencies that say we have — it is EUR 150. And my question and reflection, ladies and gentlemen, is, do any of you think there's really going to be some German farmer or farmer who shuts down their exploitation for a 0.5% interest? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u366	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by José Luis Rivas Cruz and five other Members of the G.P. the Galego Nationalist Block, on the measures taken and planned by the Government of Greece in relation to the incidence of the use of pesticides in the health of workers who manipulate them and in crops
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u367	To put the question, Mr. Rivas Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u368	Thank you very much, Mr. President. That there is a use and abuse of pesticides and herbicides in rural Galician is an indisputable fact, from the forage corn to the flower greenhouses, from a good part of the garden of self-consumption to the professional garden, so much so that it has to be with a minimum dose of a backpack at the large doses managed with tractor proper footing. The truth is that in 2017 in Galicia only in glyphosate we spent about 10 million euros. There are plans for the sustainable use of these products, legislation, good practice manuals and even periodic inspection of application equipment. Let me have a sarcasm, let's pass the ITV to the sulfactator, but not to the one who handles it, because that's what this is about. Because at the Union Transparency Portal there is no trace of the activity carried out by the Galego Plant Protection Committee, which should ensure the proper use of these substances, to plan annually inspection measures, security, to reduce environmental impacts resulting from management. We don't know if he even meets. We don't know whether this committee has dealt with the problem reported by the State Prosecutor's Office, which asked the governments of Galicia and Castile-Leon to cancel close to 7,000 carnes of manipulation of phytosanitary obtained fraudulently between 2015 and 2016. Or the complaints from agricultural organizations that many of these management training courses were ridiculous. The problem is there in all its cruelty. Let's give an example. Some of these chemicals — organophosphorates and carbamates — inhibit the activity of acetylcholinesterase enzyme in nerve tissue and hematides, permanently in the first and reversible in the carbamate group. There are levels of concentration in the body of these substances that can generate transient, semi-permanent or permanent disorders in health, and since the BNG we believe the Administration has something to say about this. There are workers in agricultural service companies who are periodically exposed to these substances and who well deserve control of their health and the prevention of possible occupational diseases that are not currently contemplated. The question, then, Counsellor, is simple: do we also pass ITV to peasants and peasants who use sulfater? Is it all right to have it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u369	Thank you very much, Mr. Cruz. Mr. González Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u370	Thank you, Mr. President. I have the question before me has nothing to do with what he metaphorically made me, but, well, I'll try to answer. Mr Rivas, perhaps one of the issues — and we know it — that most debates are currently taking place in rural areas and in its relationship with the natural environment is the use of pesticides in the environment; and, more specifically, the use of glyphosate. To put into context the question we must go back to the seventy, when Monsanto company found the properties of this product, of glyphosate, as herbicide. And since then, it is true, the increase in the use of glyphosate not only in Galicia, but in the world, makes today — forty years after its appearance in the market — one of the herbicides most currently employed by its systemic facet and also, why not say it?, cheaply. The fact is that in recent years the controversy over this herbicide does nothing but increase, and opinions about this product are — and indeed — in continuing opposition. He told the World Health Organization that in 2015 he considered it probably cancer. On the other hand, the European Food Safety Authority, in the same year, said quite the opposite, said it was unlikely that it was cancer. In 2017 the European Chemicals Authority maintained glyphosate as a non-carcinogenic phytosanitary for humans. And at present — and this is important — glyphosate is authorised by the European Union until 2022. So — we have to make it clear — we are talking about a legal product. And it's also important to have another issue of relevance, a question we assume that the Nationalist Block is aware of it, that it is the member states that have the power to ban it or not within their territories. From our council, the Rural Council, we will always recommend the application of practices and low consumption of chemicals, giving priority, where possible, to non-chemical methods, because we are committed to a green and environmentally sustainable Galicia. With respect to glyphosate, its use is permitted for the uses set out in the corresponding log and for specific users also specified in the log. And by the end of the day, I want to remind you that in the case of its use - and I tell farmers and livestock - it must be done under the indications set out in the Royal Decree regulating it, whether for agricultural uses such as non-agrarians, and the obligations set out in its register of plant protection products of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u371	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Rivas Cruz has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u372	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counselor, we are asking you to declare glyphosate illegal, no, no. We are asking them to do their duty as Government, which is to defend the health of farmers and peasants in this country, only that, nothing more than that. Let them advance a little at the time. Don't make me remind you that you also got stuck when you reported the use — to see if I say it right — of flufenoxuron — or something like that — which is more or less an insecticide for the eucalyptus, when they had the goniper — that they still have it — in the area of Melide, saying no, and a little later it was banned by the European Union. I mean, we're just telling them that there are no protocols, there are no follow-ups that control the incidence of these toxic chemical concentrates that are used in agriculture and livestock. That there are no protocols that defend and measure whether people's health has an impact. We therefore believe that it is necessary for a first study of the risk population to be carried out from the public administration, and in particular from the Galego Plant Protection Committee. Do it. Look, would you like me to tell you that in 2005 there was an Issga protocol in this regard and that there were already analyses? That protocol exists. Of course, it was Bipartite times. The Bipartite was concerned about these stories. He didn't do anything out of place, he just intended to cut off this unbridled and misused use which is being made of many plant protection products, and we know that. We leglism aside, protocols aside, and written stories aside, we know that at present we are using too cheerfully, too cheerfully, amount of toxic chemicals at very high concentrations. This is what we ask you, Counselor, to answer this question, are you going to do something in favour of prevention...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u373	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u374	...the possible incidences that exist today in people who manage phytosanitary? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u375	Thank you very much. Mr. González Vázquez has the floor for the Government's replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u376	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Rivas, I tell you without any accuracy, we are always, really, questioning the professionalism of our farmers and livestock. Do you mean to tell me that with the knowledge that I have of the yellow cattle farmers and that you also have it, that people have no precautions and do not adapt to the protocols in the use of phytosanitary? Do we want to tell myself and you want to tell society as a whole, so that everyone knows the opinion that the Galician Nationalist Block of Greek farmers and livestock? Home! Mr Rivas, by the way, the use of chemical pesticides, as I said, is always a cause for debate. I hope we can come here today, in this parliamentary headquarters, to talk about new pesticides that do not raise any controversy and convince everyone, but unfortunately that is not the case. And in the daily work of our farmers and livestock we have to use those pesticides. The use of glyphosate -- I said it in my first intervention -- is extended by its effectiveness in eliminating weeds and the bush, and also by being a cheap product. And I repeat again what I said in my previous speech, that the European Union and the Spanish State authorize its use at least until 2022, and that even the State administration is using it on the roads of its title. The authorisation of the use of a particular active material is the competence of the European Union, and it is the Member States which have the competence to authorise the marketing or not of that pesticide in their territory when it is approved in the Community area. Together, the Union will continue to recommend the most appropriate use of this product by meeting the established requirements and the use of chemical alternatives to organic agriculture, as well as certain mechanical and thermal means that can replace glyphosate. It is important, very important, ladies and gentlemen - and I think that we have to work all of this - the awareness of users in the search for alternatives that give us all less doubt and scientific disputes and are as effective as these aminophosphonates. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u377	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Mr Moisés Blanco Paradelo and six other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on the action being taken by the Government of Greece to comply with the Parliamentary Agreement on the amendment by the Central Government of the rules governing the IRPF on the taxation of aid for the incorporation of young people into agricultural activity
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u378	To put the question, Mr. Blanco Paradelo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u379	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. The generational rebound and the incorporation of young people from Greece into economic activities in rural areas are one of the main concerns we have in our group and we also find that in our council. Thus, in order to stimulate, support and encourage new incorporations, from the Government of Greece, through the 2014-2020 Rural Development Plan, which has been addressed so much, different lines of aid have been approved that over the past three years have put in place 1,466 young people, with a public investment of 52.3 million euros. It has to be said that these are aids whose requests have not been left without any answer due to a lack of budget, I think this is very important to make it clear. This aid covers certain obligations on the part of the beneficiaries, such as remaining in agricultural activity for a minimum period of five years and which the subsidy received must be charged as income from the IRPF of the young farmer and the performance rating of the economic activity. Its temporal imputation is made in accordance with the general criteria; that is, as qualified as a capital grant or current grant. The fact is that the Directorate-General of State Courts qualifies these subsidies as currents, charging the grant as an income in the year of the concession or the collection of the grant if the young person opts for the criterion of the collection, which implies to us a clear prejudice, to have to deal with the full amount of tax in the first year of the activity, precisely when more needing liquidity. Conscious of this problem, two years ago, ruling the People's Party in the State Government, a non-law proposal was introduced in which the ministry was urged — I insist, when it governed the same political color, because today we hear some references — to modify this regulation that regulates the IRPF so that the aid received by the boy does not pay in the first year in its entirety, as it has been since now, but is divided during the amortization period of the acquired asset, always with a minimum of five years. I suppose this text sounds to you, since it was you who defended this proposal when I was a spokesperson for the People's Group in rural areas. This initiative was unanimously adopted in this Parliament in order to avoid, precisely, this damage in the taxation of Thursdays which are incorporated into the agricultural world. So we want to ask you today, what measures are you taking in Galicia to comply with the agreement adopted in this House on the amendment to the rules governing the IRPF in respect of the aid received by these new incorporations? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u380	Thank you very much, Mr. Blanco. Mr. González Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u381	Thank you, Mr. Blanco Paradelo, this is a matter that also affects me from a technical point of view. I beg you in advance to apologize if I am unable, after two questions related to interpellation, to transfer with sufficient clarity such an important subject for nearly 3,000 young men and girls who have joined the Brazilian countryside since 2014. As Mr. Blanco Paradelo well said, there is a discrepancy between the tax agency and all the others. He's already got the data, but I'd say the important thing for our boys and girls is that the grant is calculated as capital, so they're taxing as properly as possible. Well, while the State Tax Agency defends that it's a current subsidy, harming young people and girls, we all defend that it's capital. Who are we all the rest? All the parliamentary groups that we were here in 2017, because we unanimously approved this LNP. In addition, the Galician Union, which has repeatedly asked the Ministry of Farming, as Mr. Blanco said, both when the People's Party was ruling and now. And also agricultural unions are demanding - and I have to thank them for their efforts in this matter - that they change the criterion to Tax Agency. But we also agree with the Galician Regional Economic Court, which issued a resolution in 2018 that said this is a capital subsidy, which was our criterion. What does the state agency say? That this resolution is not binding. What performances are you performing in Joine? The first thing we did was to ask for a ruling from a professor of tax law, who tells us that this resolution is binding and that, therefore, the Tax Agency has to correct the taxation of young people in those cases which are not prescribed for the possible claim. The actions we have done, in addition to asking that professor to issue a dictame, and with that saying asking me to request a meeting with the Tax Agency, the first thing we have done was to inform our boys, because -- and this is important -- the return is not done by the Tax Agency, the return of which the boys unduly entered has to be claimed by the boys, and it has a life period of four years, which means that on June 30, 2019 they lost their right to claim those who received the subsidy in 2014, because they presented the statement until June 30, 2015, these four years. We warn them before. How? With an information talk that took place last month with all the agricultural unions, with all the entities that presented the young people's statements and with all those young men and girls who wanted to come. And we also sent them to the 2,880 boys who received the 2014 grants in advance. And to those letters we came up with the model to claim the refund of the wrong revenues. So we're doing the work that we can do, which is warning those young people who claim against the Tax Agency would return undue income, and do it before the claim deadline passes, which is those four years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u382	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Blanco Paradelo has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u383	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, Counselor, for these explanations, and especially for this management you've been doing during this time. From the Popular Parliamentary Group, in addition to the taxation of these aids to the new incorporations of young people into farming, we are also concerned about other forms of taxation that affect workers in the Italian countryside. We could talk about the transfer from parents to children who continue to exploit; the transfer between spouses, to stop having one of them as a professional farmer, continuing the other as a farmer; or, for example, the assignment to a society of new creation by changing the legal form of exploitation. We find ourselves in cases where, although there is a change of ownership in the holding, it is a change of administrative ownership that does not lead to any kind of real estate increase, as it is done free of charge. On the other hand, these types of transfers are quite common in our autonomous community, given the advanced age of our farmers and livestock. Also, Counsellor, we are concerned about the situation of part-time workers and their conditions of taxation. Agriculture, livestock or forestry, etc., in part-time has been and remains an interesting source of supplementary income for many Greek families, but not only from rural, but also for those living in more urban areas maintain their properties and develop some activities in the field, where they find an economic plugin for the support of their homes, performing a work in most cases in a multifunctional way and making these activities compatible with another major work. So we also want to ask you which management will develop to try to solve all these problems that affect the workers in the Galician field. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u384	Thank you very much, Mr. Blanco. For the Government's reply, the Middle Rural Counsellor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u385	Thank you very much, Mr. Blanco. I repeat again, and I would like you to have had as much transcendence as possible, that of these 2,880 boys who had to be wrongly taxed, according to the criteria emanating from the resolution of the Regional Administrative Court of Galicia which I previously moved and which has the protection of the dictatement of a professor of financial and tax law who says he binds to the Tax Agency. The problem is that these returns are not made by chance, by means of taxing techniques, those returns have to ask for young people and girls. I ask all Members, all Members of Parliament here, to move the need to make their claims before the end of the four-year term they have in order to do so. The ones in 2014, unfortunately, have already lost that right. The board you did, warn you before. We have sent them, as I said before, letters of information to 2,880. We've summoned them to briefings, which were given by Professor Miguel Caamaño, in which they were informed exactly, and even this professor has drafted the model of returns of undue income. And now, as soon as we have the statement that I believe the State Tax Agency is wrong, we'll request a meeting with the Ministry of Business to change the criteria. We're doing everything we can. You also referred to the fact that there are more problems in the fiscal field and in the labour field of the Greek farmers and livestock, especially those who work part-time. This same week we heard or saw the news that there will be wine growers with a threshold of gross income quite low that, however, they will have to pay for autonomy, and that concerns us, and how we care and want to collaborate with the whole world, at the last Agrarian Council, last June, we created with the agricultural unions that are in the Agrarian Council, with Agricultural Unions and with the Galician Labour Union, a working group that aims to analyze all the fiscal and labor problems of the Greek farmers and livestock, especially those who work part-time, and propose solutions. The Council of Galicia will put in that working group the tax and labour experts who will allow us to propose solutions that, if they reach the Union, will be resolved by the Union itself, and if they reach the State, they will refer them to the Ministry of Labour, or to the corresponding ministry in the field of work, so that they can make such changes. I want to appeal here to all parliamentary groups so that they can also move to that working group where the unions are, and it's in Together all these tax and labor problems so that, with the support of the experts, we can look for solutions that will allow us all, including the Galician Union, to support, defend and promote the incorporation of young people into the field in the best possible conditions. Because, ladies and gentlemen, since then the Junta of Galicia believes in a green rural, a young rural and a rural with a future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u386	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Dr. Julio Torrado Quintela and Patricia Vilan Lorenzo of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the measures envisaged by the Council of Galicia with regard to the situation generated in the encouragement of the Low, in Caldas de Reis, since the presence of the microcystinal algae
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u387	To put the question, Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u388	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. We're working today on a problem you know, for sure, in the support of Low, an environmental and health problem too, both sides, and neither is smaller; a problem you know but about what you don't act on. We're in front of the 9th chapter of telenovela that repeats every year and what you're just looking for excuses not to act. They're pretty good at doing this -- you have to recognize the virtues too -- but actually the problem is they don't act. There's a problem in the coronation, the presence of the algae, the microcystics, which basically has two derived problems; one is the environment, and the other is the health. With the arrival of heat and high temperatures, the possibility of the toxin in the river was aggravated, although you allege that often it doesn't appear, as if it were enough. But there's also an environmental problem. As experts quote, and you will also know - the experts of the hydrobiological station of the Con, who know the river perfectly - point out that the existence of these algae can cause problems even in biodiversity in animals, which may even be animal mortality problems that are found on other issues, but they are probably drinking water from that river that is already problematic by themselves, and the non-existent on some occasions, or at least on some tests, of toxin, does not mean that there is no high risk that it will occur, because experts point out that it can change that situation even after the evaluations. So we have a serious problem at the environmental point and at the issue of health, because it's a boost in a river that eventually serves mainly the Caldas Town Hall, but also others, from there to the sea. It also has accumulated management problems. We have to debug that water, and that's a super cost to the council of between thirty thousand and fifty thousand euros a year, depending on some variables, which is assuming the Caldas Town Hall, not only for the water itself, but also for the other municipalities, performing a work that is overburdened by the inefficiency of the Galician Union. In fact, neglect of the problem ultimately causes problems for those who answer others. You also have to recognize his virtues. They are quite efficient in causing problems, in solving them and finding guilt, and that's good; assuming responsibility is no longer among virtues. This is a recurring problem, as quoted by Caldas's own mayor. That annual telenovela in which, unlike the others, we know how it starts, we know how it ends, and we know who's the bad one, but apart from that, we find that this Board, passive observer in this situation, is almost waiting to see what other actors are doing, and probably looking at them with interest in knowing how the other problems are solved. Yeah, he doesn't, but even if he complains, he complains that the others are alerting about the situation. There's a recurring problem and Joine avoids real involvement. A pledge that was born wrong, that worked badly and that gave rise to problems, and before what we continue to ask year after year, are you going to do something to solve the situation or are you going to keep waiting for the Caldas Town Hall to continue to solve it for you? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u389	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u390	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to explain the strict preventive control that the Galician Union is doing, apart from many other actions due to the passivity of others, and I'm going to explain, for example, to you by the Council of Caldas. As you say, I'm glad you know that one thing is the algae and another the toxin, because nothing has to do with the toxin presence directly; one thing is the algae and another is the toxin. And thank you also for giving me the opportunity to clarify the things you say in the trash. The truth is that you are making statements to the light, with a lack of responsibility and seriousness in my view quite grave. They generate social alarm, when the truth is it's not real, with false arguments, directly false arguments. There is irresponsibility of a political group by giving false arguments, and I'll explain it carefully, All, absolutely all, and when I say all is because the quality water technicians of Galician waters say there was no toxin or there is toxin in Caldas' coronation, is that all the analysts -- so the technicians say it -- didn't give toxin. Negative with the toxins. Never presence. You are therefore irresponsiblely efficient. The inefficiency of irresponsibility is from the Socialist Party, because to say the opposite about what I just said, that there are no toxins, is to lie, directly lie. So you're out of your mind. The algae are not toxins, as I told you, and their party, especially their secretary, that stops fooling. Allow me: June 28th, twitter of the Socialist Party saying that there is toxin, affected by microcystin. Analytics on that day, June 28th: they don't ask or care about what the analytics says. But what irresponsibility is that, that they don't want to know the truth? You can call me, I'll give you analytics, there's no toxin! You guys go there without wanting to know what the analysis says and not knowing what it says. The monumental irresponsibility of a party that I thought was responsible. So they lie shamelessly with the presence of the toxin. [[Applause]] That's right, Your Honor, that's right. Analyticals are there, from an independent, professional laboratory that does the analysis, and there was never a toxin. We activate a protocol, yes, when there is a proliferation of bacteria, cyanobacteria. We activate a protocol to do comprehensive, preventive control, to avoid any risk. It's a phenomenon that happens in the coronations of the whole world, of Spain, of Galicia... and in the watersheds of the Socialist Party too, or do you think that nothing else is in the coronation of Caldas, of the People's Party? Why don't you ask about the Conchas choir, who manages the Confederation of Mine-Sil? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm saying there's a algae and there's no toxin. You're saying something else and therefore you're deceiving, which is a monumental irresponsibility, I say again. [[Applause]] There was no toxin. If they cared about the truth, there are a lot of things I have to say about the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u391	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u392	It's a monumental irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u393	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the reply, Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u394	Thank you, President. I guess you can't find -- I've written the line -- nothing in my claim to say there was a toxin, but there's a algae. Look, I'm going to ask you a question -- quietness -- do you know when Noah built the ark? Before the flood. Do you know what irresponsibility is? Being waiting, calling us alarmists, by the time the toxin appears, if it appears, saying that now we have to act. We must act first, before, Counsellor!, before! And that's the problem, that you justify the situation by saying that, as in the analysis, no toxin appears, no problem. You say the algae and the toxin have nothing to do with it. Home! If the microcystic algae has nothing to do with the microcystin toxin, it goes down to Noah and sees it. Maybe it doesn't have to do it, maybe it's a linguistic match, it's got nothing to do with it! [[Applause]] If you mean there's no problem because the microcystic algae has nothing to do with the appearance of the microcystin toxin, because it's fine. By the way, you can tell, as I said, hydrobiological action experts. I trust you more of your judgment than mine, but that's what I'm saying, they say it. So see if we're able to take care of the people who say so. By the way, there are quite high odds that it might appear, especially in summer. And yes, of course I'm concerned, of course I'm concerned, that's the question of management and the question of debugger. Because you, with this, don't exist, let it go. Can you guarantee that there is no environmental problem caused by the existence of the algae right now? Can you really guarantee that there will be no toxin? Can you? You can't. Why? Because there are the odds and possibilities that exist. What we're asking is are you going to do something more than wait to see if it happens? Because the climate conditions, the biological conditions and the hydrological conditions of the river give rise to experts saying it's very likely. By the way, without any problems, why has even the bathroom ever been banned? Or are we also alarmists of the opposition...?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u395	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u396	You're not able to explain anything about it, you're only able to say that the rest of us are irresponsible. And it's funny...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u397	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u398	...it's funny, because we're irresponsible when you have the ability to rule and keep watching. Do something!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u399	Thank you very much. For the Government's reply, the Minister of Infrastructure and Mobility, Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u400	I said there's a algae doesn't mean there's a toxin, as you say, that's the big difference. There is algae, and as the proliferation of cyanobacteria begins, we activate the protocol in a preventive manner. I think you're teaching me a lesson in water, which are irresponsible... in Vigo they don't do anything in the potabilizer, which is necessary for the quality of the water. In the grove, they don't want to exploit it for anything, water quality. I'm talking about water, water in general, because water management is important and you're irresponsible. And nothing to say about the Douro Hydrographic Confederation with the floods these days. In any case, I insist again, that there are algae does not mean directly... Confederation of the Douro. I don't know if they know what the Douro shell is. The fact that there is a algae doesn't mean there's a direct toxin, which is what I said, which is what you claim, when it's a lie, last June 28th. We activate the protocol with a continuous, thorough inspection, periodic sampling at different points, both in the coronation and in the uptakes of the water below. You'll say that doing analytics is not doing anything. Of course, we do analytics and intense displays to have permanent controls and full guarantees in water quality; of course, in this case and in everyone. We've been starting with important analyses since 2011. The current government was what began to strengthen the analysts because the Bipartite didn't do anything. Since 2011 we have reinforced the analyses. I hope you're delighted that we're strengthening the analyses. From many years back here, in 2018, there were 24 parameters, and now there are 26 parameters that we've analyzed. Other confederations want to copy us, and ask us, because they are interested in what is our protocol, other confederations that manage the Socialist Party of Pedro Sánchez, because they are interested in having the same protocol for preventive action. Because never, there was never a toxin. There are 1,360 analytical results, they're here, and there's no toxin, there's another thing that there's algae. None. So you're lying. And there's the twitter, which I don't take anymore because you know him. I'm going to leave the president of the chamber all the analysts to show that the Socialist Party, in this case, lies saying that there is toxin in Caldas' coronation. It's discarded, therefore, toxin. We're working to cool off, of course, the presence of algae, because they're primarily generated by one thing, especially nutrients. The nutrients are included in the coronation when, for example, the debuggers are paralyzed, as is the case with the exploitation of the debugger of Paradise, which manages the municipality, and we have to fix it to avoid nutrients. We'll act in the debugger of Paradise because the mayor, the Town Hall of Caldas, does not act, when it's his responsibility. We will act in the river forest to eliminate nutrients, and, of course, the Socialist Party, once again, believes that in water matters it is irresponsible. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u401	Thank you very much, Counselor. We moved on to the next question to the Government. Question from Noa Presas Bergantiños and five other Members from the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the need for an explanation and assessment by the Greek Government regarding their relations with Pemex
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u402	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u403	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Conde, I must begin by regreting having to ask you this question; lamenting it for two reasons. First, because if you were a government worthy of such a name, you should come up with your own motto, as this opposition demanded. [[Applause]] Second. Because the facts we've been asking today since BNG ratify that their history with Pemex has been a past mortgage, present and, as you can see, future for the galley naval. And because, ultimately, it's not a good news that there are shadows of corruption that can be extended and splashed into Galicia. And this also shows that in the history of the Greek Government with Pemex there are more shadows than you can see. And it's not a good news, and it's a history of this together Galicia-Pemex which is summed up in seven years where we've seen more photos than results, and more pictures than ships. Photos like this, Mr. Conde — I don't know if you will remember — in September 2012, of the campaign of the Greek elections. And here we have Mr Feijóo with Mr. José Manuel Carrera Panizo, now investigated. [[Mrs. Presas Berganginos showed a picture to the House.]] You're not in the picture but you're already an advisor to Feijóo and I suppose he'd be there nearby. [[Applause]] Months later, in May 2013, it was when Pemex acquired 51% of Barriers for 5.1 million, announcing that the intention was clearly to transfer Greek knowledge to build ships in Mexico. By that time you were already out in the pictures. Here is, for example, this picture of the following year, 2014. We can see you -- you know, you can look at yourself -- with Mr. Emilio Lozoya, who is also now under investigation and with what you've been traveling around Mexico making promises that they then failed. [[Mrs. Presas Berganginos showed a picture to the House.]] You also have other images. Here we also have Mr. King Varela — happy the four — with Feijóo, Count and Mr. Carlos Roa, who is also being investigated at the moment. [[Mrs. Presas Berganginos showed a picture to the House.]] In short, the balance with Pemex is not only seven years of telenovela and only two fleets, in which we knew nothing of these 14 tugmen, chemists, tank ships, tuna, that logistics base at tip Langosteira, et cetera, et cetera, etc., nor that smaller fleet that we would be charged with. The question is that the final balance that leaves us is that right now Mr. López Obrador, the new president of Mexico, announces the investigation of this series of gentlemen with whom you have a relationship and knowledge. He also announces that there are suspicions about the contracts he had with Galicia. That logically has to have some kind of reaction from the German Government, even though it's only by the shadow that it can have on our ship and the bad reputation it can create. And you're quiet. So, Mr. Conde, we asked how the Galician Board appreciates the corruption situation, with yellow connections, unearthed in Pemex.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u404	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas Berganginos. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u405	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Presas, you are again mistaken for this Parliament with a truce. It would be good if, when you come to this Parliament, you come with data, come with realities, come with facts and, therefore, you can contrast the reality with the elucubrations you intend to move here simply, once again, to confuse. Madam Presas, there is no other voice in Galicia calling into question the role that Pemex played both in the recovery of Barriers and in the recovery of the German naval sector; none, except you. I greatly regret that you are always beside others instead of being next to us. Because ours, Mrs. Presas, are the naval sector, they're the workers of the naval sector, and therefore it's the recovery of a productive sector, a strategic sector for our economy. [[Applause]] I no longer ask you for institutional respect, because at this point, unfortunately, it's not a practice that you vote normally. I'm sorry they don't have any criteria. That's a shame. Because, Mrs Presas, until now the BNG has said — to this day — that Pemex's investment in Galicia was the price of balance. That was a matter that they defended in their own speeches in this Parliament. I'm going to transfer an intervention to you on December 2016: "As soon as we're glad that there's that burden of work. Now, what's the price, at the price of selling the ship's knowledge at the price of balance?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh I mean, "from Mexico" -- you said -- "they came here with a strategy: to absorb our knowledge in exchange for a check of only five million and only two fleets, and this was allowed by the People's Party." Now BNG subscribes to the view that there was no fair deal for Pemex in contracts with the Greek shipyards. So, Mrs. Presas, what are we left with? I don't know if you're just going to change your mind every time the headlines are moving forward, but frankly you're the only ones who generate shadows on the German naval sector. And, Mrs. Presas, the German naval sector doesn't deserve the Galego Nationalist Block permanently to be questioned. Of course, as I said, there is no other voice that would question the role played by Pemex. Pemex played a definitive role in the recovery of Barriers, played a definitive role in the recovery of the Welsh naval sector and therefore in the employment of the naval sector in Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u406	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Presas Berganginos has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u407	Home!, Mr. Conde, who puts shadows of corruption on this situation is the Mexican Court of Auditors, not the BNG. And that's the reality. And since you didn't take good care of the first intervention, I reassert myself. It was sold the intellectual capital and knowledge of the galley ship at the price of balance by its government, indeed. And Pemex's intentions are not invented, I don't make them: "Mexican Oils signs the purchase of part of a Galician shipyard" — May 2, 2013. It's an interview with one of Pemex's managers, who says, "The goal is to transfer knowledge to build specialized ships in Mexico." These are your deeds, Mr. Count. I don't know if you're talking about the Vigo River naval this week, after contributing to loading Vulcan. In any case, the facts that you leave us are those hugs that cost our industry a lot. We've talked here many times about the embrace of Iberdrola, and we also have our embraces with Lozoya, the embraces with a lord who is now being investigated for corruption. Then some explanation will have to be given. [[Applause]] Basically because I think it's pretty easy to understand that this could have a negative impact on the image our ship has internationally. And that's why we bring this question. You ask for respect. I should have you, who comes here to accuse, not the BNG, but the rest of the opposition, of putting doubts on Pemex, as if it were a novelty that we've been questioning this, or as if it were us who were investigating these corruption cases. Because I remind you that, indeed, you have 41 Members and a lot of votes, but on this side we also represent a majority of this country and we deserve all the groups a little respect.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u408	Thank you very much, Mrs. Noa. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u409	Therefore, Mr. Count, remember your facts, your photographs, your management, and give some sort of explanation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u410	Thank you very much. For the Government's reply, Mr. Economics, Employment and Industry Counsellor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u411	We're still in the lullaby, Mrs. Presas. Unfortunately you come here to a tertulia. And to say that this government has contributed to loading Vulcan is simply having no idea what role this government has played in defending Vulcan, defending jobs in Vulcan and allowing Vulcan to have a workload for many years. What no one doubts is that you and rigour have neither a paper nor a parallel path, but quite the opposite. Make it clear that you — you, Mrs Presas — are the only ones who doubt how to do the sector, are the only ones. I just talked about the Galician Nationalist Block in my intervention. You are the only ones who doubt at this time that Pemex actually had a positive effect on Galicia. And it had a positive effect for both Barriers and Navantia. In the case of Barreras, Your Honor, Junta has done everything she can to keep this yard with respect to legality, and knows that this operation, which you have qualified as "the balance price", has played a decisive role in the recovery of this yard. That's the reality. If you go to the hemerothec, you'll see that what I'm telling you is reality. And, in addition, this operation has contributed to the fact that today Barreras has five contracts on the table, with a workload that hasn't been remembered for years. Therefore, Pemex was absolutely definitive in the recovery of Barriers but also of Navantia. Because you will remember that, in fact, when there was no workload in Navantia — straight, there was no workload in Navantia — Pemex's fleet was subject to one million hours of work in the Ferrol River and 130,000 hours of engineering. Finally, the role of the recovery of the naval sector in Galicia is logically linked to Pemex, is linked to Mexico's support, to the support of the Government of Spain and to the support of the Galician Union for the development of the naval sector. And thanks to that support, today the naval sector lives one of its best moments, with the second most important order wallet on the continent, and with half of the requests made in Spain last year. Therefore, Mrs Preas, I have no doubt that this situation is, firstly, the merit of the shipyards, the auxiliary industry and the workers — that you never defend and always attack — and logically the Council of Galicia has also been supporting the sector, and will be next to it with EUR 50 million to develop training and innovation-related initiatives. And what we all have is that in no case is the situation of the naval sector worthy of the work of the opposition. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u412	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera and eight other Members of the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, about the actions being carried out by the Government of Greece in front of the Central Government to rectify its decision to deny the request to connect the Balados industrial polygon to the 200 kilovolts network
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u413	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Egerique Mosquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u414	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Counselor, I must also regret to ask you this question for a decision by the Central Government that leaves us in a complicated situation for Vigo and Galicia. During the government of Mariano Rajoy the inclusion in the 2015-2020 investment plan of Red Electrica Española was agreed to build an electric substation that allowed a connection of 220 kilovolts in Vigo. Well, a month ago, we know what government is doing in functions, the government of Sánchez in functions, which is, as this news reports, parking the Balados hook to the high-voltage network that Vigo claimed and that also claimed the Citroën factory. [[Mr. Egerique Mosquera shows the House a press clipping.]] Therefore, the demands of the vigues — not the claim of the mayor of Vigo — succeed the claims of the Greeks and the claim of the president of the Union, the claim of this German Government. So we're talking about what's important, that political color doesn't make any sense when we have to claim the interests and infrastructures that are important to Vigo, the industrial sector and Galicia. Therefore, we have clearly seen that in this case it does matter the political color, because a mayor of a city where this substation is fundamental — and that it is also in inequality with other cities, such as Zaragoza — now remains silent. So we, from the People's Party, do work and present a non-law proposal in Commission 6th. That non-law proposal came forward with the Socialist Party's abstention. It sounds like a lie, but they didn't want to support and urge the Council of Galicia to mediate with the Government of Spain so that that substation would be a reality. So today we also see ourselves in the obligation to ask the German Government what they're doing to make this a reality. We will also present a motion at the Vigo Town Hall. We believe this is an important claim. We believe, moreover, that the lack of the construction of the substation leaves Vigo and leaves Galicia in inequality with other territories, with other cities of Spain and with other peninsula territories as well, as it can be Portugal. So we think it's very important that we make a decision. The other day, Mr. Counsellor, he listened to an interview with the Secretary of State on behalf of the Sánchez government, and thanked him — in addition, he thanked, insistently, before the journalist fired him — for the institutional cooperation with the Council of Galicia in the case of Alcoa, on the subject of Alcoa. I also wanted to talk about institutional cooperation, because I think it is very important in this case. And we, from the People's Parliamentary Group, and from — I insist — the Council of Galicia want to claim this substation because we believe it is important and essential for Vigo. I ask you, Counselor, what the Council of Galicia is doing on this subject.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u415	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u416	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Mosquera, it is indeed surprising that the government of Pedro Sánchez, the socialist government, is punishing Galicia, punishing Vigo and punishing the automotive sector in our country. Unfortunately, the Government is not complying with an agreement adopted by the Congress of Deputies that established in its 2015-2020 power grid planning that this substation and this line could allow PSA-Vigo to gain competitiveness and that the electricity supply in Vigo had connected to the 220 kilovolts transport network so that it could be established in terms of quality. As you know, that proposal was a proposal by the Galician Council approved and incorporated by the government of Mariano Rajoy and that the government of Pedro Sánchez is currently blocking. And we don't know why. In that 2015-2020 electrical planning it is established that the service position of that line should be in 2020, in 2020!; and therefore that letter of singularity which must recognize the government of Pedro Sánchez must be adopted now. And we don't know why Pedro Sánchez's government has blocked this decision, which is damaging, as I say, Galicia, it's harming Vigo and harming the automotive sector in Galicia. It's a demonstration that this political instability, this bad politics that is living in Spain, has consequences. We are going to insist from Galicia, with the support of this Parliament, on the initiative of the People's Group, to urge the Government to fulfil its commitments to Galicia. It's as simple as that. And for us it is a shame that the Galego Socialist Group does not defend Galicia's interests, that the Galician Socialist Party does not defend Vigo's interests and the interests of the automotive sector in Galicia. I believe that we have an opportunity among all to defend those interests and unlock the construction of this new substation, because that is a commitment adopted at the Congress of Deputies, which is in the 2015-2020 electrical planning and which clearly established that this new line, this substation, had entered into service in 2020. We just need the Ministry of Ecological Transition to adopt the uniqueness of the project and, therefore, to allow Red Electric to build this line. It is as simple as taking on the commitments made at the Congress of Deputies. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u417	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Egerique's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u418	Thank you, President. Well, Counselor, you have explained very clearly what the proceedings are. The truth is, they often talk about political will here, and I think it's totally political will, because it's included, as you said well, in the investment plan of Red Electric for 2015-2020. The truth is that political will seems to be forgotten when elections pass. We know that there is all legitimacy in winning elections and having most absolutes. But, of course, in February we saw that the mayor of Vigo reiterated to Spain's Electric Network the request for Balaidos to work at 220 kilovolts; and we saw that in March also Caballero stated that the Government was studying the attachment to the high tension it calls for PSA. But the month of June comes, the elections pass, and nothing says. I insist, keep quiet. And I think, in addition, that, recognizing you all the legitimacy you have in the city, you have to understand that this is an absolute necessity for the city of Vigo, which is a necessity for the development of the industrial sector in Galicia. So you can't fall into forgetfulness. I asked myself, when I defended the non-law proposal in Commission 6a, to serve the Ministry of Ecological Transition, because I believe — and you have also given good account in this Parliament — that the decisions you are making are not doing any good to the industrial sector here in Galicia. We therefore hope that this mediation by the Union will be received in the Sánchez government, if one day it will arrive — or at least in the Government in function — and that this exceptionality will be declared and that substation will be a reality. For my band, I really wonder why that substation is so important and how it works as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u419	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Close this question by the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u420	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Mosquera, we are actually talking about one of the most important strategic sectors in Galicia, such as the automotive sector. It's 22,000 direct jobs that now allow you to have a clear view of the competitiveness of the innovation sector, with the development of new projects, both K9 and V20, which are positioning Galicia. But that effort must be an effort from all administrations and therefore it must be a joint work — in this case between the General Administration of the State and the Council of Galicia. In this context, we have transferred to the Government the need for the construction of this electrical substation, precisely so that the Balados plant would gain competitiveness and above all it could compete on equal terms as to how other places are developing, as Opel plant in Zaragoza can be. So we understand that it is essential for the Central Government, that the government of Pedro Sánchez, to declare the exceptionality of this project, which is the only procedure that is missing so that the line can be built by Spain's Electric Network. The last step in order to gain competitiveness in PSA-Vigo and win as supply in Vigo is simply for the Government to declare this exceptionality of the project, and from then on to comply with that agreement which was adopted by the Congress of Deputies. We think we have to act with one voice. At this moment there is a discordant voice, which is that of the Group of the Socialists of Galicia, which is unfortunately trying to hide the belligerent energy policy towards Galicia that is developing the government of Pedro Sánchez. And we hope that the Government will change that criterion and therefore confirm that agreement by Congress and allow this exceptionality. That'll make our automotive sector competitive, won the power supply in Vigo in quality. So we'll look for a solution so that there'll be a clear response from the government of Pedro Sanchez. It's the only thing we asked for. The only thing I would move to the Socialist Group in Galicia is that the agreements are about to be fulfilled, that an agreement has been adopted by the Congress of Members and that this must be done. So what we are asking is that the German Socialist Group actually support this House as a whole, which supports the German automotive sector and which also supports the city of Vigo. At this point, the Group of Socialists is turning their backs on the automotive sector and taking their backs on the quality of supply in Vigo. And we'll keep working, of course, for that to be so. Not only defending electrical planning but also electrical planning between 2021 and 2026. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u421	Thank you, Counselor. [[Mr. Fernández Leiceaga asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Leicega, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u422	It's to comment on an inaccurateness of the counsellor, which I suppose you will also correct as you did a moment ago with the spokesperson of another group. I mean, we don't have the capacity to comply with any of these agreements, but it's up to the Government of Spain. We're not the Government of Spain, just that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u423	Thank you. They all help. [[Murmurs.]] Da Eva Solla Fernández, G.P. of In Marea, on the forecasts of the Government of Greece in relation to the privatization of health services
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u424	You have the word Eva Solla says.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u425	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again, Counselor. We have come to denounce a new platoon of the Health Council, and in this case the privatization of services at EOXI Lugo-Cervo-Monforte. Just like the EOXI of Coruña, in which you last year privatized consultations, surgical interventions and tests worth EUR 97 million, you just bid a contract in which, through EUR 40 million, you again privatize consultations, diagnostic tests and surgical interventions, obviously failing what the Board of Auditors has denounced and denounces each year about the lack of motivation for your contracts and privatizations. It says the Board of Auditors that there is a lack of precision in the justification for the nature and extent of the needs to be met and the benefit of outsourcing the benefits concerned. And you recommend that they motivate more appropriately the contract needs and the impossibility of providing them with their own means. The reality is that you, instead of improving the working conditions of public health professionals, give more means to provide services, what they do is privatize public health services. And I want to report here that you in the full past denied the largest, said that after the approval of the Health Insurance Act they were not moving patients into private, which is absolutely false, lies. Not only do they keep that contract we reported last year at the EOXI of the Crown but they now form a very similar contract in content at the EOXI of Lugo. We have already said at that time that the worst of the Coruña contract, the privatization of the Coruña health services, was not only the privatization itself, but the precedent it had set for you to continue exporting this model to other health areas. And I'm going to give you an example. The amount you apply to this open procedure, this open administrative procedure, these EUR 40 million, is 38% of what you invest in staff in Lugo hospitals. 38%, almost 40%, of what they spend on staff is going to spend right now on giving it to private companies just at the time when you're denying these transfers to private and precisely at the time when, once again, the company Povervisa threatens by asking for more money from the Galician Health Service. They said at the beginning of the crisis that they would touch everything except health, education and pensions. It was fake. They said after that they'd play everything in health except the white gown. It was fake. Damn hemerotheque, Counselor. And once again, you privatize a public health service again. You answer this question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u426	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u427	Every day they surprise me more, they surprise me more than they can say falsehood after falsehood, full after full, and remain so wide. Look, it surprises you to ask your own urgent question, without specifying anything at all, because this has been doing for a long time. They are the concerts of all life, which the Bipartite maintained and even increased. We're spending less on concerts at the moment than the Bipartite used to spend. Everything in the Greek health is public at 100 percent. And, of course, we have a private that works well. I think that's also good for Greek society, and that people who want to choose. Of course, for us it's complementary to what we do. But, as I say, it's not only in this government, but in all governments, and of course also in the Bipartite, when the spending was higher. But we can go much further, even before the health transfers. That kind of concert was already held in the old INP. We address the need to facilitate these services to patients and their family environment, with the possibilities and times of travel in public transport, as well as minimizing any inconvenience related to patient displacements to the health facilities offered, which must be logically located. There is a change in the law — which I don't know whether or not I know — and is that it is called otherwise and follows a similar procedure, and logically we will carry out — but without increasing above the previous allocation — the services that are needed at every moment to give the best service to all citizens. In order to contract these services, it is necessary for the procedure to adapt to the new public sector contract law; and therefore a service contract is carried out instead of a health service concert. We're talking about it with different names, exactly the same, as what you used, as I say, in the government of the bipartisan. And the procurement procedure collects the services of health services which have been carried out and which it is not possible to assume by its own means — from EOXI de Lugo in this case. And in this procedure, reference is made only to scheduled surgical interventions and diagnostic procedures. This procedure includes the estimated amounts for the duration of the contract and depending on the history of the activity performed, which will be adjusted in each exercise to the actual needs of EOXI. This means that the cost will depend, first, on the bidding, where logically there will be a decrease in the final amount, and then the activity will be the one we need at every moment, which may be lower or greater. I believe that, in any case, there is bad faith on the part of the honourable Member when he mixes the decree of maximum times with this. It has nothing to do with one another, and the accusation of falsehood that she does is that she has no knowledge, she has no information, which I doubt — because we have reported many times here — or, as I say, it is bad faith. All the patients of maximum times of that decree that we have here in Galicia, and which gives greater guarantees and rights to citizens, have been cared for in public health in Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u428	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u429	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u430	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Solla's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u431	Bad faith, Counselor, that is to say in this House that patients are not moving to private and sign a few days later a privatization, a pivatization, with private companies. By the way, with an administrative procedure that is not a contract without more, it is a framework agreement; an open procedure in which you - chance! - in their own tender they already say that they do not provide for more than three participants. So you already have an adjudicate, you already know who these contracts are going to give you, and this is called privatization. When you can put in place ways to provide these services in public health and decide to do so in private, it's because you believe in private health and want to fatten private health. I insist that 38% of public staff spending in hospitals is what you're going to hand over to these private companies. We've already discussed the difference between a concert and a contract on the previous occasion, when you privatized services in the Coruña. And I want to remind you -- I've done it before -- that the Board of Auditors says that you're not motivating, in contracts and concerts, that you can't provide services through your own services, so you're what you're producing here is a covert privatization, which still above you deny, just as the National Workers' Union has just denounced the collective agreement in the private health of Lugo precisely because the wages received in private health are significantly lower; a midwife, less than the minimum interprofessional wage. In this situation of poverty they are in private health, where you intend to derive health care from public health. In addition, with a contract like the previous one, in which the public health professionals will be forced to operate, to intervene, within private health, violating the law of incompatibilities, as we have already told you on the previous occasion. Your Honor, once again it's about the privatization of services, just as soon as you're closing beds in the Galician Health Service, so you don't have to open them and equip them with public staff.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u432	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u433	Let's see how you explain this to the staff.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u434	Thank you. Close the question, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u435	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is, in the replica, I have to start by saying the same thing I said in the first one, that he's lying again or that he really doesn't have any knowledge. To say that we put in the clauses of this agreement that it's up to three hospitals is not knowing Lugo's area. Every hospital that can enter here has to be accredited by the Health Council, and we know the number of hospitals in Lugo. Maybe you don't know, but the number is what it is. Also tell him that we don't derive types of birth. The births of Lugo, the public, are all at Lugo's hospital, therefore, either in the Navy or in Monforte. The midwives have no action in this type of contract. That's why I say it's either a general disinformation or that he wants to confuse and try to confuse the field to say things that are not true, as I say, to cover up the shame that his group should have, because when he ruled in this Bipartite government, he kept and increased private spending. So I want to tell you that you use this repeatedly to try and lie, but you were very lucky. He was very lucky because just this period, in these months of this year, a number of activities that were done in a concert returned to the public. Specifically, I have to tell you that for a few months now, the HULA has six more physiotherapists because we assumed what was done in a concerted clinic; and at the Marine Hospital, two more physiotherapists because the same clinic was also in the Navy; and now we do it at the HULA and the Marine Hospital. So I think you've had bad luck with this period because it's just when we've been doing less private activity in Lugo for many years. And besides, we're also saying that we're not privatizing, that we're improving Galician public health every day in all territories, that we're also strengthening and strengthening early attention, already increasing since July 8th, a few days ago, the second occupational therapist, and from July 15th, within a week, the second speech to care for these patients who need it, as I say, and improving the quality of health care every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u436	Thank you, Counselor. Question by da Sandra Vázquez Domínguez and six other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the assessment of the Government of Greece regarding the 2019 Summer Campaign of the Directorate-General for Youth, Participation and Volunteering, presented under the motto The Summer You Want to Live
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u437	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u438	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Last April was published in the Official Journal of Galicia the order by which the offer of young squares is convened and regulated within the 2019 Summer Campaign program of the Social Policy Council. We see as another year his advisorship, through the Youth General Directorate, Participation and Volunteering, is carrying out various activities and projects on youth such as the summer campaign, which we are interested in today from the Popular Group. From our group, we believe that these kinds of initiatives and projects help improve the quality of life of young people in Greece because they increase their skills and abilities. I would like to remind you, moreover, that this summer campaign is going on consecutively in the last few years, which is good proof that your advisors are betting on by an active, participatory, trained and enterprising youth. In addition, in the call of this year 2019 we observed good news, as the number of squares offered for 2018 increases. In view of the data provided in this year's call for 2019, we also observed two data that we find very important and that we would like to highlight. First of all, this offer is very ambitious, which not only makes reference to the offer of leisure and leisure for young and young gales, but also constitutes a resource for reconciling family and work life. On the other hand, a second fact that is very important to us, and to me is the most representative, is that this initiative helps to fulfil the objective that social inclusion is also a reality in the youth sphere, since, in application of the principle of cross-cutting policies on disability, we see how the activities of this campaign have a specific call for young people and young women in Greece with disabilities. Furthermore, following also the principles of transversality, we see how there are two more specific calls, one for the minors who are under the protection system of the Union and one for the children and daughters of women who are victims of gender-based violence. Finally, from the Popular Group we would like to know, as advisor, the information on the number of total squares offered in this call and also know the programming and the areas of participation that are included in this youth initiative. In addition, taking advantage of the fact that today you are visiting one of these camps, specifically in the Forcarei area, Members and Members of the People's Parliamentary Group want to ask you what valuation is done by the Government of Greece regarding the Summer Campaign this year 2019 of the Directorate-General for Youth, Participation and Volunteering which is presented under the motto: The summer you want to live. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u439	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Macías. Response from the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u440	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. It's always a pleasure for me to come to this House talking about one of the most emblematic shows in Galician Union, like the Summer Campaign. Besides, as you well said, today I have just visited the Camp of Ponte Maril, in Forcarei, and so I was able to know first-hand and on the ground how well the different boys and girls who were participating in this camp were enjoying it. I think everyone we're here agrees that summer is a special station. It's a station to enjoy, to discover new passions, to carry out different activities and also to make new friends. The Summer Campaign makes it possible for Galician youth to schedule a great deal, with lots of squares and also a wide variety of leisure alternatives. And in this way, so that more girls and more boys continue to enjoy these activities, on April 22 of this same year, the Official Journal of Galicia published the 2019 campaign, under the motto: The summer you want to live. This wide programme of activities for the months of July, August and September composes the summer campaign, which includes the various camps organized by the Galician Union, various exchange programs with other autonomous communities, the concerted offer with associations and with the various youth entities. Activities also for the 18-year-olds with the program: "Connect with Galicia." And also the volunteer fields, which are the old fields of work, which are done here in Galicia and in other regions of Spain and abroad. In total, ladies and gentlemen, about 10,000 camp pitches, 62 but last year; squares in which all young and young people in Galicia can participate from 9 to 30 years old, regardless of their abilities and regardless of their special needs, since all the camps in Galicia are open to persons with disabilities. And there's also a specific call to these people, whenever they're between 11 and 40. At the same time, as you well said, there are 100 juvenile-reserved squares in the Galician Union protection system, and 52 other squares for the children and daughters of women who suffer from gender violence. Ladies and gentlemen, one more year, the Summer Campaign is consolidated as an alternative of first-level leisure, and also a reference throughout Spain, which has a triple objective: to encourage the participation of the younger people of Galicia in activities that also have a formative aspect; to improve, of course, the reconciliation of the parents and mothers of Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u441	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u442	...and dynamizing the education and leisure sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u443	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Fernández Macías.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u444	Thank you, President. Thank you very much, Counselor, for your answer. First of all, I would like to congratulate you, not only on you, but on your being extended to your advisor, on the success of this initiative, which is more than tangible success, and not only on this last 2019, but in the previous years of your summons, as demonstrated by the increase in the number of squares offered year after year, as we knew, for example, in this new summons. According to the publication of this call for the year 2019, we also note that there are several news regarding the calls from previous years, as new themes have been presented for the activities offered, inter alia, related to the environment. This is another fact that we find very relevant, very noteworthy, since it's a good way to train and raise awareness among young Greek girls in this regard. For all this, in addition to congratulating your advisor's office, we encourage you to continue to carry out these kinds of performances and these types of projects, since we consider -- as I said in my first intervention -- that they are very enriching for our youth, and it's also tested at 100 percent that work perfectly. In conclusion, Counsellor, in addition to these novelties, as I say, with regard to previous calls, we would also like to know the information on the concerted offer, as well as the offer on exchanges of young people and girls with the outside and with other regions. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u445	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Macías. Shuttle shift, Social Policy advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u446	Thank you, President. The 2019 Summer Campaign introduces, as you well said, some news about previous calls. First of all, three more camps were housed: the lost village, in Grixalba Farm-Zoo, in Sobrerado do Monxes; the Astronomy Camp, in the San Juan Hostel in Rio; and a new technological camp, training your robot, at the Youth Hostel in Gandarío. There will also be, as otherwise!, five other volunteer fields of the thirty that are offered: The land that inhabits the sea, in the municipality of the Grove, with environmental theme and also heritage recovery; the volunteer field of the Dunas de Corrubedo, in Ribeira, where will be carried out maintenance work of the natural spaces and our complex donar; the volunteer field of Manzaneda Riós, a sea of chestnut trees, in Ourense; and also the Way of Jacobea, Via da Plata, in the municipalities of Boqueixón and Vedra, which will be the first field of intermunicipal volunteering. All in all, ladies and gentlemen, 643 squares in the volunteer fields in Galicia; 322 squares in the fields in the foreign and other autonomous communities, and, like no!, also the concerted offer, which - as I said before - is the one that performs the different associations, youth entities, leisure schools or also local corporations in equipment in the Galician Union, where we will offer 1,255 squares. And finally, our Connecta Galicia program, which will have 240 squares to favor the connection between Galician youth and Galician youth abroad. In short, the Summer Campaign you want to live answers to the vitality and the desire to learn and to live positive experiences that our younger people have, bet on volunteering and training also during leisure and leisure time, and, of course, responds to commitment to proposals, to the worries and vital projects of Galicia's younger people. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u447	Thank you, Counselor. Da María Dolores Toja Suárez and Patricia Otero Rodríguez, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the principles on which the Plan of Action of the Galician Galician 2030
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u448	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Counselor. Again, from the Socialist Group we have to ask you about the jobs of the sea, especially after yesterday's appearance. As we've already told you, the truth is that we've been quite concerned because we see that, since you rule, if you've lost one out of five jobs at sea, especially for women, one out of three; that's data from the active population survey. And with regard to shellfish licences, in the same period, there are only 3,792 shellfish licences in 2018, when in 2009 there were 4,281. One out of three were lost, but that loss was especially assumed by women, as we say, since the marishes' permits, for the men's sake, increased. And all of this despite his proposal that when they arrived at the Government, they said that they would increase the permit of shellfish. Not only did this happen, but the permits have been reduced, and as we say, they have assumed that loss by women. In May of this year, since our parliamentary group, we have taken an initiative which has been adopted unanimously, in which we are calling for a shellfish plan to be made and for this plan to be particularly directed to the women's sector, seeing - as we have said - that they are those who assume the loss of jobs. What we did was try to find the amendment you sent us. They were looking at a 2030 shellfish recovery plan. We're trying to find that plan, the truth we're trying. At first we still thought it was a mistake, because it seemed to us a time horizon too long. We're looking for that plan, but the truth is we can't find it anywhere, and it's very strange. That as amended they would provide a plan that today is neither developed nor seems to exist as such. So today what would be convenient is for you to explain to us what principle this plan is based on, the concrete objectives that are being pursued and, above all, the indicators that will be used to assess the degree of achievement of that plan. We understand that this plan must contemplate actions against theft, which is a very serious problem we have in Galicia, but it must also contemplate actions that positively affect the confrereries, and those which have no means to deal with the monitoring aids, which contain other kinds of alternatives. I repeat, as we have not found that plan, what we ask you today is that you develop it here in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u449	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. Answer from the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u450	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Toja, allow me to start by pointing out that I don't know how curious the group that supports the Government is to ask you to run something that is being developed and whose knowledge of existence is public, being even driven by this same formation and where there is nothing to hide. I say this because, as you said, a couple of months ago it was made public to the sector that this government-supported training intended to take forward, prior to the impetus of the Executive's work, the 2030 Maritime Action Plan. Given its demand for information, I wanted to point out that its objective is to ensure sustainable exploitation and conservation of marine resources, integrating biological, social, employment, economic and environmental aspects. It will focus on lines for sustainable management, resource conservation, protection and recovery of marine ecosystems biodiversity, socio-economic development and employment, support for product marketing and governance. It is expected that you will be ready for your release at the end of this summer, to be further improved, and your application horizon is 2030, but you will have a reformulation point in 2022, in order to match it to the revised lines of work and to adapt it also to the possibilities of funding arising from European funds. This plan will affect -- for good -- a group of more than 10,000 people who develop their marine activity in our waters, either on foot or from ship. Going further, and knowing that most of the professional marsqueo collective on foot are women, you will understand that your main beneficiary group will be the female. It has EUR 55 million in funding, which is close to several lines in the current European Maritime Fisheries Fund, with the aim of adding those close to the next fund 2027, where these lines are estimated to be strengthened at European level. With this plan, it is intended to continue the entire line of action that has allowed the activity to be recovered in these years and to halt the fall in which it was encountered when this government took over its tasks in 2009. We believe that this maritime activity continues to have a future, that it must rely on our support and also on this Parliament, so they do not doubt that it will be appropriately presented and, of course, they can come up with positive proposals to complement it. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u451	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Toja.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u452	Thank you, President. Well, advisor, do I like the data, it'll be so much listening here that we have to talk with data, support our arguments with data, numbers. We may like numbers to be able to draw conclusions, but you tell us that the plan will affect "sure that for good," to me the truth is, for the sake of it, it doesn't give me an idea, a magnitude, that you can have an impact on number of jobs or that you can't have an impact on a given chronology either. You've been ruling for ten years, you've been in a time when the permit of shellfish has not stopped falling. As I told you, it was the women who assumed absolutely that loss, one chain three, and that their answer is "sure that it will well affect" that does not seem enough to us. Specific data is needed. [[Applause]] On the other hand, we see that the pillars of this plan are highly supported by the environmental criteria, and we believe that the other leg, which is the socio-economic one, is also very important. He talked about environment, sustainability, recovery, etc., and of course, employment is very important, it needs to be developed. I repeat, it needs to be developed. Besides, you have to consider what's going to happen with the theft of that plan. Are they going to carry out more intensive measures than those that are leading up to now? Will specifically help the confrereries that can't cope with the Watch Help, so their confrereries are free from theft? For example, I put the case of Lira in Carnota, a confrere that can't deal with the aid and that has a problem. We believe that all these aspects should be contemplated, and of course, what makes us curious is the time horizon, 2030, when you've been ruling for ten years.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u453	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. Close the question, Counselor of the Sea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u454	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Toja, we can really talk about data and we can talk about issues. You can see and visualize the plan, study it and make proposals to improve it. But look, you accuse me here in a continuous way of losing permission to get married on foot. I'll give you an account and you know what shellfish is. In 2005, when we left the Government of Galicia, there were 5,124 sailors on foot. When we returned in 2009, there were 4,281. I mean, in the time you ruled, 843 shellfishers were lost. But the worst thing is they've left the marine production areas abandoned, and the marine production areas don't recover overnight. And we're not going to give people permission to say that we have permission to sail; we have to have places to work. The first thing we had to do was recover those marine production areas, and we had to clean up the rivers so they could move from zone C to zone B. Today we've recovered 45 marine production areas and we've recovered more than 1,200 mexillon production areas. All of this is being done from an environmental point of view, but also from a professional point of view. The year 2015 was the first year we were able to give more seafood permits than people who retired in the previous year, and from there we haven't stopped growing. But we're also making that growth from an economic point of view. We, I mean, we don't want to give permission and wetlands have nowhere to live. The fight against theft. The first person who has a direct commitment to fighting thieves is this who speaks to them. When I arrived in 2009 at the council office, the coast guard ships had arneron on the bottom, were raided on the docks and they weren't operational. The operating room was not operational, they didn't even pay the light receipts of the operation room. Today we've increased three new patrols, 66 new cars for the coastguards, we've increased all personnel, because more than 20 officials took possession last month. I mean, Mrs. Toja, we're fighting robbery, we're improving production areas, we've stopped losing the number of operating permits and we're still working on this line. So in this plan -- I told you in my first intervention -- not only are environmental aspects considered, but there are also economics, employment, socio-economics. It's all taken care of because it's all that's needed to keep the shellfish in the future. That's why I hope that you, with that concern you show here so that you can have the marishers a future, help you complement and improve it. And of course we're here to help all the confrereries who can't fund the aid...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u455	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u456	I'm asking the Central Government to review your fishing law...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u457	Thank you, Counselor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u458	...to allow us to do that. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u459	Before you finish the plenary, as you almost all know, today two Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group are fired. I'll give them the floor, and then the spokespersons can fire them too. First of all, Mr. Díaz Villoslada has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u460	Very briefly. Thank you, President, for the opportunity to say goodbye to this plenary with the pride of being part of the Chamber of Political Representation of Galician citizenship. Thanks to the compañeros and compañeros of the full and commission. Thanks to the workers of this House, this parliament, the media that usually accompany us. A reminder to Carlos López Crespo, a very special feeling for the loss of our colleague Raúl Fernández and thanks to my Socialist Parliamentary Group. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u461	Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u462	Thank you, Mr. President. In this long process of learning for fourteen years, I wanted to begin by thanking Parliament's staff, the media, and the Members and Members who lived with me. The truth is, beyond the legitimate discrepancies, I am convinced that the search for a better country for everyone was the goal that we somehow thought and thought to achieve. The truth is, I think politics is a loaded weapon of the future, and we have to be able to feel proud of our work. And in order not to appear partisan, I turn back to the French Revolution in defense, in these turbulent times, of Freedom, Equality and Fraternity. It seems to me that they have to be guiding elements of what political action is. And of course, I want to join the memory of Carlos López Crespo and Raúl Fernández Fernández. I'm sorry if someone has been assaulted by the staff, which I hope not because it wasn't my intention, not in here or out of the Chamber. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u463	Do you want to speak to the spokespersons? Mrs. Vázquez Verao, do you mean anything? Give your voice to the scene.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u464	Even though we've been here a short time, it's been a very emotional legislate. They've just reminded two companions that they're gone. Today there are two comrades, but also two Members with great rigour. I personally will miss Mr. Losada's quiet bite, and I'm sure the whole House. And nothing else. To say a wish, I would expect to see them in an hemicycle with a composition of different benches, which is touching us. But, finally, good luck!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u465	Thank you. Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u466	I'm the one who thinks this isn't a farewell. I'm sure we're going to have a lot of opportunities to see each other, to be able to talk, to be able to exchange. It is true that this House loses two Members who have demonstrated its worth, its commitment to this country, its commitment to trying to make this House a little more worthy, and I believe that this is an exercise that is always to thank, especially - as Mr Losada said here - in these times when it tries to discredit politics so much. We must also wish them the best in the staff, and that they are right, because they're going to have government responsibilities and I think that's important, beyond the political colors and disputes from a biased point of view. I understand that this is not a goodbye, but a goodbye soon, and of course, we wish them the best. It is true that we are going to miss this always tender hand of Mr Villoslada, who put a lot of wisdom into the debates, and also Mr Losada's sharpness, which I think has given very good moments of parliamentary debate, and I believe that among all of us we have learned and contributed to this chamber's progress. Of course, it was an honor to meet you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u467	Mr. Lake.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u468	Thank you. Abel and John leave Parliament, as self-denial militants of their party, to carry out political tasks elsewhere. I wish John special luck, who is a conceler in the city where I live, and I hope that he will move to the government of that city that work is fair, rigorous, sensible and searching for agreements and consensus. We're gonna miss them both. I understand that it is a personal and political decision, and I say with sadness, with a certain sadness, that this parliament, and I personally, will miss you both. Juan, let me talk a little more about Abel. Abel is an institution in the Galician Parliament. The Galician Parliament is losing its way. In addition, I have a special appreciation for you as a colleague for being one of the most brilliant and combative economists in this chamber, for your vehement and entertaining interventions we all have. And finally I'll tell you a secret, I hope they'll leave me. It's so loudly that I have to say that he's got me on the phone in an extraordinary way when I was slow in giving him the 3rd commission business. Despite all that, Abel, I'll miss you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u469	Mr. Leicega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u470	Good afternoon. The truth is, they thank each other for these moments after the full time we've gone through. They will understand that for me emotion is twofold, not only as a Member, but also as a spokesperson for our group, because these are two very important members of it. In politics it's always passing by, and in an institution like this, more. In this sense, it seems to me to be a positive note, after the passing of Carlos Crespo and Raúl Fernández, that we have lost two Members because they are going to do other political tasks elsewhere, and in this case both with government responsibilities. It's a loss, indeed, but a loss that will be compensated for what they can do elsewhere. I know that everyone mourns the march of Juan and Abel. I believe that each one with his own style and responsibilities contributed not only to the Socialist Group's better representation, and therefore to the citizens who voted for us, but also to Parliament's increasing level. I think Abel, who has more time, is almost as if Ramoncho had stopped presenting the grapes, or something like that, did a great job presiding over Commission 3a, all parliamentarians so recognize. [[Laughter]] And, of course, John shows in the laws in which he was rapporteur, even today, of his ability, his rigour and his search for the best for Galicia. Parliament is the centre of political life in Galicia, there certainly cannot be a better place for politics, but they go elsewhere. I wish that what they've learned here also serves to make better politics in the Coruña and Vigo, which is where they are now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u471	Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u472	President, with the voice of emotion we want to join from the People's Parliamentary Group in this recognition to two Members who today leave us on the benches of the Socialist Party, along with Cesar Fernández Gil, a fellow of our group who has left to preside over the society of Ribadavia. [[Laughter]] Wish Mr. Villoslada all the best in his new tasks in the Town Hall of Coruña. Mr. Losada, thank you very much and thank you very much for your equanimity in presiding over Commission 3, which is no simple task, and in which, of course, you have demonstrated all your parliamentary skill. Equanimity that I wish you to move to Vigo Town Hall, I wish you would. We will miss you, Mr. Losada, your daily reading of the catastrophic headlines of the economic press. We're going to miss your speeches in Commission 6th, just passed by Mrs Beatriz Sestayo, who no longer accompanies us. We're going to miss your speeches at the President's control session. Every time the word Vigo was said, at the bottom of the south, there was Mr. Abel Losada, who was not an institution in this parliament, but is already part of the decoration of this house. So we're going to miss them a lot. Just wish them so much peace they'll take as much rest as they leave. [[Laughter]] The truth is, I thought I would never be able to say this in this parliament: Mr. Villoslada, Mr. Losada, you are dismissed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-07-10-DSPG124.u473	Well, I'll fire them too, very briefly. The first thing I want to do is thank you for having the memory of two comrades who unfortunately lost in this legislation. I also want to have a memory for my partner, companion Fernández Gil, who couldn't say good-bye. You haven't given him time, you know what the rules are like. But we also wish him very good luck. Two parliamentarians, indeed, well described by all spokesmen, in two distinct ways to argue, but two very interesting ways to debate, which is true, and which have contributed a lot to this parliament. So I think you're going to have a gap in the book of the anecdotes of this parliament. They know it's done to the seventh legislation, but we'll continue, and I think you'll have a hole there because that's also the history of our parliament. I wish them luck, and above all, too much health. Have fun. Nothing else. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Ends the session at six and fifty-three minutes afternoon.
