ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u1	Good morning. Let's start the session. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. No inassistances have been justified. And we go into the agenda, with the first point, which is a legislative text. Debate taken into account by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, of historical democratic memory of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u2	For the introduction of the bill, you have the floor, by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u3	Good morning. First of all, I want to send a fraternal greeting to the people who accompany us in the guest gallery. They are representatives of retaliation families and historical memory defenses, people who are the daughters of terror, grandchildren of fear and silence and who today are regal, brave and proud voices. The fact that the law is discussed in the plenary of Parliament is largely the result of your struggle, your commitment, your courage and your determination. [[Applause]] People like you make societies better, and from here on goes all our recognition and gratitude. It is a paradox that we are debating this law here today. The first question you might ask is that it happened, which is what was done so bad that, eighty-three years after the beginning of fascist terror in Galicia and when you have just celebrated the 40th anniversary of your sacred Constitution, this is still a matter pending; an anomaly that says a lot about this state and this democracy. Why, universal principles and values that dignify the human condition, justice, truth, memory, repair, are broken down, prohibited, in the name of what practical reason? Can there be anything bigger than truth and justice? Why have so many people been killed and then erased from history? Why was the donation forbidden? Why were tears forbidden, putting flowers in a grave? Why weren't there ever so many graves where to cry the dead? Why has justice never been done? For all this, we need a law to answer these questions, to repair the wrong, to pay off the debts, to honor the victims of fascist genocide in Galicia, to look after, to cure the wounds, to recognize us in values that make us better people and society. For all this, we need a law. And we also need parliaments, governments and institutions that are loyal to those who have given so much for their existence. Juan Gelman said that the opposite of forgetting is not the memory; the opposite of forgetting is the truth. We are here, therefore, to claim truth and memory, the truth and memory of this woman, this young woman, Rosario Hernández Dieguez, Calesa, a 20-year-old Vigo girl; she was a humble family, sold newspapers from Prince Street. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows a photograph.]] After the coup d'état of 36 he hid, because they went after her, because she was a woman who wanted to be free, who manifested herself and who carried the banners of demonstrations. They were looking for a group of good family Vigo talkers, kidnapped her, tortured her, raped her, mutilated her and buried her body in the waters of Vigo River, near the Cyes Islands. By her we want there to be a law, for her to return from these cold and deep waters, for her ideas to return, for her to return the light of this transparent gaze. [[Applause]] Rosario Hernández Dieguez, Calesa. This law is for her and her. And it's also for the protagonists of this photograph, a blurry photograph that can never be erased from history: the gallery that presided over the parade of the 36th Republic Day in Coruña. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows a photograph.]] Here is the republican mayor of the city, Alfredo Suárez Ferrín; the highest military authority of Galicia, General Salcedo Molinuevo; the feminist librarian Juana Capdevielle; the military governor of the province, Rogelio Charidad Pita; and the civil governor of the Coruña, Francisco Pérez Carballo. The five were killed in the five months since July 20, 1936. They, because they were military charges and political charges, and she, because she was a feminist, fighter, combative woman, who had no place in that social prison that fascism wanted to create for women; she was also kidnapped, murdered, raped, and thrown her body in a crib in Rhodes, in Lugo province. For them, for her, we also want a law. [[Applause]] And we want a law for the woman who is in this photograph, which is all a symbol of the tough memory of this country, a Republican teacher of Vilagarcia, Juana Otero. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows a photograph.]] She was taken to the phalanx headquarters, she was shaved and tattooed on the front with silver nitrate with the UHP abbreviations, United proletarian Brothers. She wanted to make this photograph so that she would stay for the story, because there are very few photographs of oppressed women, shaved women and tattooed women. This photograph is a gigantic memory document, of Galician hard memory. By Juana Otero we also want a law. [[Applause]] We want a law by which he made these images of the fascist terror in Galicia, Atila in Galicia, Galicia martyr, by Castelao. [[Mr. Bará Torres displays a document.]] Because Castelao is still in the roles of the regime as a separatist, as a republican, as a traitor, and was never repaired that file that condemned him, that he numeroused him and sentenced him to exile. In Castelao we also want a law. [[Applause]] And we want a law for Cinta Rey, photographed next to this pine tree, in a place that no longer exists, the pine of Caeira, where on November 12, 36 his son, Victor Casas Rey, head of the Galician Party in Pontevedra. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows a photograph.]] And who made this photograph to her, which is also a decomune monument of hard memory, was nothing but Amalia Álvarez Gallego, and made her in that place where her husband, Alexandre Bóveda, had been killed. For these women, for the rest of them, we also need and we want a law of historical Greek memory. Look, this law seeks to pay tribute to all these people, to thousands of people who have been murdered, tortured, imprisoned, raped, extortioned, fined, purified, banished and sentenced to exile, ostracism, annulment and disappearance. This is a legal text solidly founded in the international legal system, in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, signed by the Spanish State in 1977, three months before the adoption of the Amnesty Law; also based on the resolution of the Human Rights Commission of 2004, which establishes the obligation of States to take effective measures to combat impunity and to guarantee the inalienable right to truth, the right to remember and the right to know. A text also inspired by the UN rapporteur's report in 2014, Pablo de Greiff, who clearly established the framework for public policy in memory, which must have as their objective the search for truth, justice and reparation. That's what this law is for. A bill that also takes advantage of the advances of autonomous legislation adopted in the last decade and of the most advanced experiences that have developed in Euskadi, Navarra, Catalonia, Andalusia, Aragon, Valencia, Balearic Islands, which have also adopted laws that drink this text. With this baggage and with the participation and the arrivals of numerous collectives and individuals, also taking into account the proposals of the Galaga for Memory Initiative, we have made this bill, which we bring today for its debate and for the approval of its processing. We are aware that it is a starting point, which can be enriched with approaches, proposals and ideas from all groups in the parliamentary process. A bill that designs a program of action with the highest institutional rank, with the means necessary to develop a public policy of the memory of Greece, about the reality of what happened here in our own country, in our own history, of fascist terror, and also our history of resistance — that there was — and solidarity. An ongoing public policy that seeks the normalization and socialization of collective history and incorporates the indispensable gender perspective, to recognize the triple role women had as victims of repression, as protagonists of resistance and solidarity and as transmitters of memory. A legal text, which has sixty-nine articles and eight final provisions, which aims to make the right to truth possible, to make possible recognition, reparation and homage by means of a series of public acts of recognition to all victims, as well as the declaration of the institutional character of Galician Martyr Day on 17 August. It is also a law to achieve the identification and protection of goods and documents from the historical memory of Galicia, the preservation and dynamization of spaces and itineraries of memory, beginning with the most symbolic central place of the memory of Greece, which is the island of San Simón, which cannot be a park of several evenings, parties and amusements; it must be the central space of collective historical memory, also of resistance and solidarity. We want this law to do a systematic study of the spoils, to ensure the return to the public heritage of the spoils of the Franco family. To proclaim in the law that it is an indisputable historical truth that the palace of Meirades, the Cornide house and the statues of Abraham and Isaac are public goods of the Greek people stolen by the Franco family, an indisputable historical truth, so much that a Spanish justice with many, with too many Frankish resaibos wishes to deny it; and to put an end to the shame of a peace of Meiraes converted into the theme park of frankism and with the sense of seeing how the Francos enjoy and negotiate with stolen goods while democrats such as the researcher Carlos Babío or the group of democrats "the 10th of Meiraes", protagonists of the symbolic occupation of the palace on 31 August 2007 — who are also represented here in this forum — if they sit on the bench of the defendants and ask for more than 300 years of imprisonment for them. The world, justice and truth, backwards. All our support for Carlos Babío and for "the 19th anniversary of Meirás" and also our demand for the central government that once and for all through this Parliament's agreement for the recovery of the palace of Meirás. [[Applause]] Finally, this text also has a number of additional provisions that promote and seek the nullity of judgments, the annulment of judgments and the exercise of jurisprudence in crimes against humanity, which are never prescribed and can be prosecuted without any kind of limit; so established international jurisprudence. We do so because we are convinced of the benefits of the free, conscious, civic exercise of collective memory, of their need to build a more cohesioned society, to articulate a stronger democracy, to forge a Galician wife of her destiny, celebrating those who gave their life for her, to challenge the lies built in decades under terror, under silence, under fear. Here in Galicia, where there were no bands and no wars; there was only systematic, programmed annihilation of those who defended democracy, the Republic, social justice and the national rights of our people; they annihilated the best generation of our country's history. Those lies about what they were talking about and what they're still talking about, continue to lie, in official papers, about deaths due to internal hemorrhage, like macabre euphemism of genocidal terror. Some people want to go through this bitter and uncomfortable page, but they refuse to know the truth and fix the evil. But the story is there, it can't be deleted, it can't be denied, it can't be hidden. That is precisely the danger now that fascism falls back on the doors of Europe, on the doors of our country, too, and has powerful allies. Some people talk about overcoming the past, but they never ask forgiveness, which is the first real step to overcome it. Some people want to close their wounds, but they don't. Who really has the right to decide whether the wounds are closed is the people who continue to suffer the consequences of terror, fear, silence and forgetfulness, who have suffered during the dictatorship and continue to suffer now. And I end by quoting a woman who is clean from Vilaverde Cendón Island, who also accompanies us here in this gallery. [[Mr. Bará Torres displays a document.]] The Isolina killed the man on August 23, 1936, Aurelio Torres, and she is an example of a brave woman, a woman who has never yielded and who has also conveyed the memory of that terror. He told us his granddaughter, who is also a symbol of that Galician woman who doesn't want to forget, Maria Lores, the following: "The memory is the most precious asset we have. Without memory, we're nothing. Each of us is what's in the history behind it. If we forget, we lose part of our life and we don't know who we are. Having memory is an act of will. We have memory because we want to have it, we have a right, and above all we have an obligation not to forget." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u4	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Allow me, before starting with this bill, to convey our deepest sympathy and affection to the entire family of this co-operating Galician Cangas who lost their lives in an accident in Ethiopia, working for a better world, as all the co-operatives do. [[Applause]] We want to tell you, first of all, that we are going to vote in favour of taking into account this proposal for the law of the BNG, because for socialists the policies of historical memory are fundamental, as I think we have shown on every occasion for a long time, and because we are also convinced that history cannot be built from the forgetting of the weakest and the silencing of the overcome, as often wants to do the right of this country. We also believe that it is necessary to have an autonomous law in Galicia, because I don't know if you have noticed that there are only three autonomous communities — La Rioja, Madrid and Galicia — that they do not have an autonomous historical memory law and therefore lack any historical memory policy. All the remaining communities have been doing their texts between 2009 and 2019, as Mr Bará said, increasingly advanced, increasingly clarifying, and that is why we believe that Galicia also has the right to have it, because, in addition, we believe that in this text all measures, ideas, concepts, that we defend socialists, that we defend in laws such as that of Andalusia or that of Extremes, even though I have to say that if we take it into consideration — let us hope so — we will make a number of amendments, because we cannot agree absolutely at all; we believe that we can improve at some point this text, but we do agree on the most important and substantive. And, above all, because we also agree that this text is in line with all the measures that are integrated into the draft amendment of Law 52/2007, that the Socialist Group in Congress of Deputies has registered for some time now and that it has not been substanceed by this torture use that makes the PP and Citizens of the Bureau of Congress, but that we will do it, that we will take it and make that change of law after these elections. [[Applause]] And we want to change it because the socialists understand, on the one hand, that the law of 2007 had a trip many times truncated, that it had deficits. True: he had significant deficits, which were made manifest by the special rapporteur of the United Nations in the Human Rights Council in his 2014 report, essentially serious deficits in terms of guaranteeing the truth of justice. And that's why this socialist amendment emphasizes the recognition of the rights of truth, justice, reparation and assurance of non-repetition and the creation of measures to ensure these principles defended by the Council of Europe and by international bodies such as the UN. We are convinced — and we want to say quite clearly — that these organisms testify that during the Franco-Christian dictatorship crimes were committed against humanity, war crimes, which by their gravity they do not prescribe, and could not and could not be the object of amnesty, and that is guaranteed in the amendment of the law that the PSOE has introduced. The change that we present — and with which this law of the BNG also agrees — essentially seeks to recover and dignify those who have disappeared during the Civil War and franchise, a task that must be the responsibility of the institutions. It cannot remain, as it was — and is also one of the problems of the law of 2007 — in the hands of individuals and associations. The memorialist movement called for it to be a matter of state, and so it will be; it is more, as it has already been, that it was already being presided over in the Government by President Sánchez, to whom the measures were directed in this sense. Besides, I want to talk about this and the responsibility of the state and all public institutions on a day when we know as relatives of reprisals buried in the Fall Valley they could go for the first time to see the graves or drawers where the remains of their relatives are, and you have to have a very hard heart not to get excited about the words of this 85-year-old woman who finally said that the whole dream of her life was to be near her father and that she was finally able to do it. Because, gentlemen, when you have the will to do things, you can do it. [[Applause]] It seemed impossible to reach the crypt of the Fall Valley; it was arrived, and relatives too. I mean, in the amendment of the law, there's a regime of sanctions, and there's also this one. It seems fundamental to us, because the laws are to comply with them, they are not to comply with them and to remove them and hide them, as the People's Party did in Galicia, in Madrid and in Rioja, and the People's Party here, where it has done absolutely nothing in the law around the memory. A number of bodies will also be set up which are also present in the law of the BNG: Technical Memory Commission, Truth Commission, National Victim Census, etc. Two fundamental ideas for us. One, which in that law, too in this one, has a principle of promoting education on these issues. Education, in addition to a fundamental good, is a fundamental element and instrument to oppose all policies, all negationist theories, to put an end to lies around all these issues and to have no chance of inciting or repeating, because the experts affirm and saw perfectly how these issues are not dealt with in regulated education, and it is necessary that franchise repression be in classes, it is in schools, that this past is known; it is uncomfortable?; yes, very uncomfortable, it may be, above all for many, very uncomfortable, but necessary to be repaired. On the other hand, the memorialist movement is also in the process of changing. And two very important things. We have been surprised, Mr Bará, by your additional provisions, because it is a little rare way of having additional provisions, which are really urging the Government, but also, as you know, I have to tell you that these concerns that are expressed in these provisions will be resolved when the law of 2007, is amended because, Mr Bará, you know that all judicial resolutions of the courts of the Franco-Crançais exception and all the rules of the Frankist regime which contravene the universal rules of international law and all violations of international criminal law will be declared null and void. In the change, when approved, that will be resolved. Just like the illegalization of the Francisco Franco Foundation. By the way, I want to remember that now that you've met all the Vox unions, I know that if the PP hasn't done anything, it won't do it now, but that in Meirás follows the Francisco Franco Foundation with great posters in which they are, with the apologetics of frankism, telling one lie after another, without the People's Party doing absolutely nothing. Now I understand that much less, because Vox, who is attached to the Franco Foundation, will not allow it. [[Applause]] In any case -- and I'm done, because I don't have much time for all the things that could be said -- so much of what happened, so much of the problem this country has with its past, it's time to fix it, and I make the People's Party a call to its sense of state. I think it's time to take steps to fix the problems this country has with its past; it's time that you don't confront, don't seek confrontation, seek nearness and seek justice, truth and reparation, because there's no true democracy if this country wants to settle in the memory of the victims or about the denial of the family's rights to know where their family members are, there's no democracy if it settles on thousands of dead people who are still in the cunetas and pits, and they're still there, and so you can't strengthen a democracy. Nor is a democracy strengthened when political leaders make fun and mock the victims and historical memory. Because you look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, your president Pablo Casado once said that the left-wings are a bunch of carcasses, because we spent our lives talking about the grandfather's war and I don't know you were. Look, I beg you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, who transmit to their president that soon the PSOE and the PSdeG will continue to talk about a war caused by a coup d'état, which ended with a fair regime and a legitimate regime, to impose a fascist regime, a regime without honor, without dignity, without sensitivity, without humanity, which has committed a large number of murders. [[Applause]] And let's go on, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u7	...of the People's Party—renamed, Mr. President—we will continue to speak of these pits until the last dead body of the last man and the last woman reprisaled by the franchise comes out of those pits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. A particularly affectionate greeting to all the people who are in the rostrum. Let me start a very small poetic license of Bodaño, Celso Emilio, Ferrín, Coucier, very short sentences, and start with one of Carlos Coucier, friend and companion for many years: "The suffering is cold as a shot in the temple." "There were no cocks/for the sad morning of his dead eyes. / The man in the color of the grass knows it well / and knows it the river / and the plow / and the mountains and the babies know it too. - There were no cocks." "The day is coming, I will lay my soul..." "Zbarski, Adrio, Boveda, forks, hammers, homeland. - July of the thirty-six, when the shame afloats." [[Applause]] This is no longer a law, it is a law in which justice, democracy, freedom are at stake. In this delirious electoral period, we recall Albert Camus' phrase: "In times and moments of time, there are only two parties: the party of humanity and the party of inhumanity." Europe broke when it historically won the game of inhumanity, and it seems to want to re-occur. To govern Andalusia, VOX demanded the People's Party a list of conditions that reflect an inhuman political thought. It's the game of inhumanity that stands out. They maintain belligerent and intimidating attitudes, ultras and conservatives, for example, with immigrants. With their homophobic thought they want to repeal the Law of Equality and also the law that defends the LGBTI collective. They make Machist statements and they want to repeal the Law of democratic historical memory as well. It's the dirty ideology and the sticky language of those who want to rob their rights, of those who want to go back. It's the negationist ideology that wants to promote the law of harmony. Don't you know there can be no agreement without truth and without reparation, without justice and without guarantees of no repetition? Don't they know? The law of historical memory in Galicia is possible if there is political will, if the Welsh PP wants, if the Welsh PP is far from inhumanity. We are still — because we are not there — moving towards real democracy. He longs to hear negative speeches, but he is stronger the breath of the wind of memory without fear. Every context, every territory, has its specificity. You have to position yourself, PP lords, with whom are you with?, with inhumanity or with humanity? In the 36th Galician, there were no dead, said Mr. Bará, on the coup, or do you know any of them? That's what my cousin Emilio says: there was no civil war here between two factions of our society, but an armed and military coup triumphant that would generate a broad type of repressive typologies. Since then, more convenient and appropriate to the historical reality would be to use the name of the 36 war instead of the Civil War, because this is a definition that does not correspond to what actually happened in Galicia, which assumes that there are two symmetrically responsible parts. That's not true, we must remember that repression was the sole and exclusive responsibility of the generals and other military who stood up against the democratic and constitutional legality of the Republic. The State Law of 2007 was born with the aim of recuperating and deigning the memory of those who were massacred by their defense of democratic values. He caused dissatisfaction, and eleven years later neither his articles nor his regulatory development satisfied almost anyone. The momentum of all autonomous communities — as it was said here — was greater, like Andalusia, Catalonia, Euskadi and even Asturias, who pulled out the law a month ago. That Law of 2007 did not allow the facts to be investigated nor made palpable or made the requirement of truth real. Impunity — and this is an essential factor — marked by the 1977 Amnesty Law, is a huge violation of international law. International law, in its regulations, recognizes that crimes are imprescriptible, so it must ensure its universal persecution. The UN, in principle 2, takes steps to protect and promote human rights with this fight against impunity. Overcoming impunity is a priority, since it is a very important deficit. To lay down procedures to declare the nullity of the sentencing judgements it is too late for us. We're 83 years old, that's all. It's a country of shame. And what is the answer to the demands of the 36th War survivors? Because it wasn't a brave answer, they didn't fully declare themselves null and void the crimes against humanity or the supreme judgments. The UN recommendations, which, by the way, were made public four years ago, in 2014 — not in 2013 — and, in particular, the report of the working group, showed dismay and recriminalized the Government of Spain, which, paradoxically, was asking to be in the Commission on Human Rights in the 2008-2020 line. This report recrived the Spanish Government for not listening to most of the recommendations and regretted observing little progress. He took the colors out of a country. No schedule was presented, very long list of non-compliances. Even if you don't get rid of it, only Rajoy's idea of providing zero euros with historical memory is a way of overthrow. What an insult! What an arsehole! The UN also pointed out as particularly disturbing that most people who disappeared during the 36th War and the dictatorship can investigate and have no access to the truth, justice or reparation. Not all measures that could have been implemented. Much emphasis has been placed on the urgency to assume and commit more actively. The UN has claimed a plan that has not been implemented, it has claimed that the Government offers greater institutional support. We hope that the Welsh PP will defuse the ultra-right and that it will exercise real democracy, that it will commit itself and that we will be able to discuss it for the kid. It is a law that we are going to support — which is obvious — with all passion, but also with the spirit of giving, of making many additions, of contributing to provide it, and for it to really be done justly with all the people who have defended democracy in this country even with their lives. A short time ago. We have to quote also one... well, I would quote her because Emilio Silva said something that seems very important to me, the president of the Historical Memory Recovery Association. He said that subsidizing "some exhumations"—because everything has been done almost privately—is something that demonstrates a huge democratic weakness, because in a democracy human rights are not subsidized, they are guaranteed!, and this is very important. We keep moving towards real democracy. The Confederal Group of En Marea has also made a proposal for a state law which must be emphasized because it is a comprehensive, participatory, broad law. We can say a lot about this and many initiatives that have been taken to the Congress of Deputies. Quote to finish. We know of the interest in women's issues, which is not sufficiently collected in many of the laws, but in some, specifically in Asturias and specifically in Andalusia. Women suffered a lot more repression because they had to deal with gender repression that the fascist regime did about them. They stole their words. The experiences of them and their families are coincident experiences of absolute sensibility, absolute outrage, repression and barbarism experienced. Barbarie directly related to the bloody character of Franco's regime in the deepest of his lives. They were afraid, afraid they came to drown them forever, afraid to think, afraid to act, afraid to live, afraid to be. Fear he was embedded in the most intimate of each of his thoughts.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u11	I'm afraid they've overcome with courage and fear that we don't have our grandchildren now. We defend the memory of all the victims and, please, take this very necessary law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u13	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, let no one call himself the mistake, the bill that is presented to us today has little to do with historical reflection, will of reconciliation or agreement. We simply saw a new attempt to encourage crispation as an instrument for obtaining electoral revenues through demonization of those who do not share — we do not share — the political ideas of certain groups, which certainly enjoy little support from the people of Greece. In the public presentation of this initiative, Mr. Bará said: "Neither the PP nor the PSOE have shown intention of recovering the property policed by the Franco family. It's the PP that must above all decide which side it is on. In the debate of this law you have the opportunity to take a step forward to curb the process of involution and get out of the closet of the history of frankism." Mr Bará is aware of the consensual and adopted initiatives in this Parliament to promote the recovery, according to law, of the peace of Meirás, and of the report prepared by the experts for this purpose. Mr Bará is also aware that the first conviction of Congress to the Frankish regime has obtained the unanimous support of a House with an absolute majority of the People's Party and, by the way, the BNG had three representatives. There have also been at least four convictions in this Galician Parliament of the Frankish regime, which could not have prospered without the support of the majority group that I have the honour to represent. These are, Your Honor, documented objective facts and those you know. So you'll understand that it's legitimate to ask yourself why does BNG hate to fake our recent story? And the answer is obvious: because they prefer to fake the debate in order to obtain partisan editorials rather than recognize a reality that dignifies us all as society. And it's not the first time this happens. From his self-proclaimed moral supremacy, BNG has been issuing certificates of good and bad Greeks for more than three decades. Recently, they began to distinguish between defenders of women's rights and traitors to the cause of equality. And today they intend to plot a line with which they can separate real Democrats from those who are not. Well, ladies and gentlemen, even the Greeks don't need their sheep to exercise their sheepmeat, nor do women need their approval to defend equality, nor does my group need their welcome to defend democracy. We don't need anyone, no one, Your Honor! Could not connect with command "%s": %s. but much less from a group that competes with the elections of the heirs of Batasuna and that only fifteen days ago in this House has carried out a fiery defense of the democratic values of a satrap that prefers to burn international aid trains before alleviating the hunger of the Venezuelan people. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] How dare they with those precedents give us lessons in democracy? The People's Party was born with democracy, has been working for more than forty years in defense of democratic values and aspires to continue to help build a freer, fairer and more tolerant country, and I believe that none of these principles inspires the text we are debating today. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] In this very legislation, ladies and gentlemen, we have approved various initiatives aimed at progressively eliminating the symbols of exhilaration of frankism. We also agree on the momentum of support measures for families who legitimately seek to bury retaliation for retaliations who still lie in ignominious conditions and in fields and citadels. I'd like to continue without being insulted, Mr. President. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It is legitimate to think that in order to perfect these policies, a law of memory from Greece is necessary, as it is legitimate to think that a decree is sufficient or simply to apply state legislation in this area to obtain similar results. Because in addition, it is the Government who has most of the competences that you want to regulate today. But to suggest that a particular group lacks democratic principles because it does not consider that this concrete text can serve as a basis for regulating this matter is in itself an exercise of anti-democracy law. Ladies and gentlemen, just a year ago, the Basque Parliament rejected a Bill of Historical Memory presented by Bildu. He was doing so thanks to the votes of the PNV, the Socialist Party of Basquedi and the PP, who suffered from the proposed accusations of lack of sensitivity, of cheating attitudes, of slapping Bildu's face on the victims of franchise. Affirmations today are familiar and paradoxical, right? As if we have memory, they will understand that we cannot consider Bildu a model of democratic behaviour against Basque nationalists, socialists and populars. Just like we're not going to accept the moral supremacy of any group because we don't just share the convenience of this bill. A proposal for a law that — we believe — is in the form of gross errors in the planning process. Let me give you an example of one that seems more serious to us: "Article 38. By means of this law it is stated that the towers or palace of Meirades, the Cornide house and the sculptures of Abraham and Isaac are polished goods and therefore must be part of the Greek public heritage." Hardly, ladies and gentlemen, this provision can overcome a minimally rigorous legal analysis. Hardly a democracy that aspires to be so-called can accept a precept that eludes any judicial control to determine by the mere will of the legislator the heritage nature of certain goods. In this way, it is seen in the same attitudes that are intended to be condemned, violating the constitutional rights of citizens without more foundation than the sympathy or antipathy that they awaken in public representatives, consciously ignoring recent judicial judgments and betting by arbitrariness as a valid formula of seizure of goods. Franco didn't even dare, Your Honor. Even the dictator has been endowed with an appearance of legality to appropriate certain goods which in our opinion should return to public domain, but through the legal formulas contemplated in our legal order, not through legal shortcuts. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] A democracy that prays for this cannot incur the same abuses as the dictatorship I replaced. Therefore, in failing to take vengeance for the strength of revenge, what the Greek people must recover for the sake of justice. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, your bill also proposes the creation of a Truth Commission. It is not in my will to question the opportunity of such commissions developed in other countries, but the circumstances in which they were created are very different from our circumstances. They don't have to look at these organisms with the approaches that they are using in recent Spain, which are geared towards the creation in our country of a Truth Commission, sometimes of almost orwellian dye and aimed at establishing a uniform and unique vision of our historical past. In a recent interview, questioned about this particular, ferrous historian Santos Juliá said the following: Truth commissions were created to lead an amnesty, so that a period of death would not be closed without knowing what happened. This effect was achieved here without any commission of truth because it was the protagonists who were in the war who did it. After amnesty, the cluster of investigations is such that it doesn't make sense a commission of truth. And if it's not about setting up what happened, but from what happened to a true and unique account about what happened, that's not only impossible, but undesirable. Your Honor, this bill is permeated by that vocation of imposition of a single truth. And as it shows, let me take a final look at another of its precepts: the additional third provision, in which the Government of the State is urged to repeal the Amnesty Law by considering it an obstacle to effective justice. It is unacceptable in a law that is called by memory the attempt — often intended by the BNG — to convert what was the great national reconciliation pact into an instrument of impunity. Such a claim simply constitutes an intolerable exercise of historical falsification. And let me believe it by recalling the words of two main protagonists of our recently passed transition. The first took place precisely in the debate on the adoption of the Amnesty Law: "We have to echo here the concerns and problems of our peoples, of our society and come to an agreement with all the exchanges and understandings that we need. As long as we leave personal interests we will create genuine amnesty, genuine coexistence. This camera has to be a guarantee of this transformation since today. Otherwise, this valuable, truly valuable act that we are carrying out today will be reduced to an empty gesture of goodwill." Whoever pronounced himself that way was the little suspect of franchisee, historical president of the PNV, Mr. Arzallus. In another historical debate, or in the approval of the 1978 Constitution, it is possible to hear or read: "Over a certain way that Spanish politicians have sometimes had to understand their mission as the excessive, exclusive and belligerent affirmation of the truths of each one, all the political groups that have participated in the different stages of work have assumed the humble but best methodological wisdom contained in the verses of Machado: "Your truth? No, the Truth / and come with me to look for her. - Yours, keep it."." He serves this memorial of tribute to one of the seven fathers of the Constitution and author of these words, José Pedro Pérez-Lorca, and in his person to a generation of exceptional politicians, who successfully completed the greatest exercise of collective memory, generosity and mutual forgiveness of our history: the democratic transition. We firmly believe that the healing and reconciliation spirit that has illuminated this transition process remains in force in Spanish society. And consequently, we cannot support the admission of a bill that does not participate in that spirit. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we today, like them then, have the conviction that agreement must continue to be possible. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Pazos. Replica from the author group of the bill, Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u15	Well, the truth is that I find the intervention of the People's Party representative, who came to this rostrum again to throw salt, to throw which, to hate, to throw scum on the victims and their families. [[Murmurs.]] Something that's absolutely consistent with your trajectory. [[Applause]] The truth is, you never surprise, you're absolutely coherent, because you've come here to say the same thing you've been saying in recent decades, when you assume, for example, that you don't spend a euro on historical memory. Because, yes, there was a law, it was a child, it was insufficient, but it predicted... you assumed, Mr. Rajoy, that you didn't spend a euro. When they insulted and humiliated the victims and their families here saying Mr. Hernando appeared to families and associations when there was a grant to look for their bodies, the bodies of their relatives. It's disgusting, it's unworthy, it's immoral. [[Applause]] When they closed the island of San Simón as an island of memory and converted it into what it wanted to be, we don't know that, the island of thought, the island of forgetfulness. When the Names and voices program was suffocated. And look: it's not enough to condemn rhetorically frankism, it's not enough to proclaim, it's also necessary to practice, and you don't practice, of course. And we know perfectly which side they are on; unfortunately we know which side they are on. You continue to act like ideological and biological testaferros of franchiseism. And from there they were born, from there they come. [[Murmurs.]] What can we expect? You act here as an annihilators, as [...] as a burying point of memory, [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[(Expression by order of the President, under Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure)]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u16	Wait a minute, Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u17	...justice and reparation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u18	No, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u19	...of the mandate of the United Nations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u20	No, no, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. No, no, no, no. [[Applause]] I'm gonna stop the time. Certain Expressions... No, sorry. [[Murmurs.]] No, you know... No, no, you're the first. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You were the first, and perhaps you should have called him in order. So be quiet. I mean, certain expressions don't think they're right to be used in this camera. No one here exterminates anyone. So those expressions are taken from the Journal of Sessions. [[Mr. Bará Torres: The memory.]] We are going to have a debate as it has been, calmly. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, that word I know what it means, and I think that word doesn't work. So I'm taking it out of the Session Diary. [[Murmurs.]] You can go on. We are going to have a quiet debate. There has been respect for the interventions, and I ask for the same respect for all of this side and I throw it away. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet. No, shut up. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please, that's it. Quiet. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] We're in the debate we're here. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u21	I keep word for word and point by point what I said about the role of the People’s Party as an annihilator, [...] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u22	He's retired.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u23	...of democratic memory and justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u24	Mr. Bará, for I have to tell you that the expression is withdrawn and I call it by order. Go ahead. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u25	And the problem is, you're still installed in 1977 or more ago: in 1967, in 1950. You forget that there have been UN resolutions that are of the year 2004, that there has been the UN Rapporteur's report of the year 2014. [[Applause]] You are still anchored in that past, in that past that you believe in naphthaline, the naphthaline of franchiseism. [[Murmurs.]] Eduardo Galeano, who was also the victim of a dictatorship, said, "There is no change in history. As much as they burn it, as much as they break it, as much as they lie to it, human memory refuses to shut its mouth. The time that's been beating, alive, within the time it's, though the time that's not wanted or doesn't know." And so it's so much that they deny her and lie to her memory she refuses to shut up, she's with us and she won't give up anything; it's a brave, stubborn, hardy and repulsive memory. The one who also beats in the voice and in the example of Telmo Comesaña Pampilón, who accompanies us here also in the public, the vivid and resilient memory of his father José Comesaña Pérez and his uncle Antonio Comesaña Pérez, murdered by fascists at the Pasaxe, in vincios, October 6, 1936; of his aunt Cecilia, who was kidnapped by fascists; of his mother Eusebia Pampilón Oitavén, who created him and his sister as he has counted in a sad house with people struggling with no resources, but surrounded by much, very dear. For your memory, for your dignity, this law is, and we are not going to give up anything, to defend it to the ultimate consequences. And dememory, of course, cannot be an effective or superfluous policy. And I also say that about who didn't do what he had to do in so many decades of supposed democracy. Even if it's uncomfortable, it has to be a priority, a brave, determined and bold performance program. And finally, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, telling them they can enforce the strength of their vows, but they won't win. Your parliamentary arithmetic will also be a defeat, a defeat of dignity and ethics, the breakdown of universal values and human rights, the principles that you do not meet and which defend the UN or the Council of Europe. It will be a terrible failure of democracy for a lot of votes and for a lot of them. And that will be the victory of the victims' families, the victory of the associations that defend historical memory. It will be our victory because — we assure you — we will not rest, we will never cease to fight until we know the truth in this country and do justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u26	Thank you, Mr Bará. Yes, Mr. Núñez, what do you want the word for? [[Mr. Núñez Centeno utters words that are not perceived.]] Yes, give a voice to Mr. Núñez's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u27	As a descendant of reprisals and exiles of the Civil War, I would ask that the words of Mr Bará be removed. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u28	Those words have already been withdrawn by me, and with a call to order Mr Bara. I'm a grandson of a reprisal, too. I want you to keep track of that. We will therefore leave the debate on its point. My grandfather had to consult the gunhead. But I can quietly endure this debate. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So we're going to put each other in his place. Voting of the legislative text
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u29	Let's vote. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, of historical democratic memory of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this bill is not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u30	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. We now move on to the cumulative debate of appearances. Like Mr. Health Adviser, on his own request, to report on the new primary care model Like Mr. Health Counsellor, at the request of the GGs. PP. by En Marea, the Galician Socialists and the Galego Nationalist Block, to account for the new primary care model
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u31	The Health Counsellor has the floor to make the appearance.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Let me begin by thanking all the participants, both professionals and citizens, who are working together to improve the primary care model; a model that was started more than forty years ago in Alma Ata, with a statement that places emphasis on primary care as the fundamental element of health care, the creation of teams that will care for citizens. A model of success in the last fifteen years in Spain is beginning to appreciate certain shortcomings. The professional deficit in recent years sharpens this problem, so we listen to the professionals who ask us for more time to care for their patients. Folks and demonstrations throughout Spain, in each of the autonomous communities: Andalusia, Cantabria, Castile-Leon, Castile-A Mancha, Catalonia, Valencian Community, The Rioxa, Madrid, Murcia, Basque Country, Navarra, indicate that it is an important problem, that today citizens still value it as very good, but that we all understand that we must take initiatives. It is an ambitious but necessary goal, and today only the Basque Country and Galicia take this initiative; an initiative that can place us in our community, in our health, at an important starting point for this new model. Since the Galician Health Service, important improvement measures have been taken for years, but this is the time to go further, and just as in the construction of the National Health System the measures to be taken inevitably go through the participation of all: public administrations, professionals and citizenship, because we are all responsible for keeping what has taken us so long to build. At present, Galician population is among the longest in the world, with life expectancy at birth above the age of 83. Besides, 25% of our population is over 65 years old. It's an aging of the highest in Spain and Europe. And besides, as the projections indicate, it will continue to increase in the next few years in a highly charged way. The aging, chronicity and complexity of patients will require the incorporation of new professionals into different categories and adoption and new roles by them. Aging is, of course, a success of the system. And as I said before, primary care is the best rated healthcare service by the citizen in all health barometers. In the last report of the Ministry of Health, corresponding to 2018, the set of the investigated Welsh and Welsh women valued Galician primary care with 7.47 points over 10, above the average of the National Health System, being especially appreciated the confidence and security that the medical and nursing staff transmit. It is also worth highlighting the high level of evaluation that receives the time that the primary physician spends with each patient, which achieves a score of 7.32, above all the average of the National Health System. We can point out that people who came to a primary health care center show in 88.10% of the cases a very positive, good or very good assessment in the attention received. Therefore, the ageing of the population and the high assessment of citizens to primary care indicates that it is a model of success. In 2018 26.6 million primary care appointments were requested in Galicia, around nine-ten visits by each of Galician citizens to their health center per year; stable figure in recent years. Of these 26.6 million, 14 million are family doctors; 1.7 million are pediatricians; and 9 million are nursing visits. The rest correspond to matrona, dentistry, oral hygiene, pharmacy and social work. Galicia is Spain's sixth autonomous community with less TIS per family doctor. In 2017, the average of the entire National Health System was 1,357, and we are almost 100 below, is 1,275; by the way, a figure that was cited in the Best Plan of the Bipartite as a figure, of course, to reach it, but that would be very difficult to achieve it. Right now, in 2018, we've already made it. With regard to the budget for staff, operating and supply costs, we now have the greatest budget in history. In recent years we have made an important effort, as far as budgetary allocation is concerned, in terms of human and material resources. Galicia's primary care offers quality health care, which has a human-resulted medium-resource structure that meets the best of the National Health System. The budget for primary care, in chapters I and II, rose in 2018 to 477 million euros, 25 million euros more than in 2008, and for this year we increased 13 million more. The total investment in clinical furniture, general furniture and electromedical equipment — for example, the last ten radiology teams in different primary care centers — in the years 2016, 2017 and 2018 4,7 million euros. Galicia has 469 health centers and 90 continuous care points. But to improve health care for citizens and the conditions and means of work for professionals, we are building or bidding new infrastructures and making improvements in existing ones. In the period 2009-2018 we put into operation 36 new health centers, with an investment of 60 million; we reformed or expanded 13 health centers, with an investment of 6.8 million; we reformed through agreements with the municipalities, when they are municipal property, a total of 20 health centers, with an investment of one million euros. Of course, in recent years the increase in the creation of new health centres has doubled what the former government Bipartite did. We now have nine health centres running, one in tendering phase, five in bidding preparation and nine in pre-drafting phase. The opening of these centres will be accompanied by a plan to equip and renew furniture, health equipment, technology and, logically, personnel as well. The Health Council is also betting on the creation of comprehensive health centres, such as the Leal Taboada in Vigo, already in operation; in place we need to be licensed at the municipal level to start the work, and in Lalín and Cangas-Moaña we are awaiting the municipal plot. All of this has a great difficulty -- I said earlier, at the beginning of my appearance -- the shortage of doctors in certain specialties to cover the absences. That zero or almost zero unemployment in Pediatrics and Family Medicine makes it difficult for us to cover all the absences of the headlines right now. Some of the measures already taken to resolve this situation are well known: annual public job offers, 2017-2020, with a public bid of 5,000 squares. Reiterated requests to the Ministry of Health to increase also teaching squares in deficit specialities. We are increasing the family doctors and we want and we also ask the Ministry of Health that we can finally believe these squares in the specialty of Pediatrics that we want to increase the training of pediatricians in our community as well. We are also pioneers in the progressive expansion of retirement age to seventy years, which in communities, even since the ministry itself, is now said to be one of the measures to be taken, and we have been three years. We are also the first autonomous community to create and equip specialized squares in Family and Community Medicine and also in Paediatric Nursing. But it's not enough. At the moment, it is necessary to adopt measures aimed at developing a primary care model that will yield excellent results for a long time, but needs, as I say, an adaptation to current needs. We have the conviction and the will that any action we take must inevitably go through participation and dialogue, as has happened so far, without those which would be condemned to failure. We've made improvements to population in recent years, so progress in recent years is spectacular, both because of these improvements in technology and in diagnostic and resolution capacity, and also by improving accessibility. Electronic clinical history, IANUS, and electronic recipe allow us to spend less time on the part of professionals and have comprehensive information and at the moment on our patients. The ability to diagnose has also improved, due to the excellent training of professionals and the increase in resources with which health centers have been provided: ultrasound, dermatoscopes, eetinographers, spirometers, are some of the means available to primary care professionals to facilitate precisely that diagnosis. This, in addition, makes the patient need to make less travel to the hospital and may have a much faster resolution. Also telephone consultation, one of the best rated services by patients, provides the advantage of facilitating accessibility, avoiding presence appointments. In 2018 the percentage of telephone consultations on the total number of primary care appointments was 10.7%, 2.8 million, which has allowed the reduction of visits to the health centre, since 99.88 % of cases are resolved without need to go to the center. As I say, innovation applied to primary care. The Connect 72 program is another example of innovation that has been incorporated in recent times. The telephone follow-up of patients by nursing staff, once discharged from the hospital, represents the best example of care continuity. In 2018 there were more than 22,000 consultations through this program. And also pioneers in innovation such as home care TV, Telea, which allows the teleassisted follow-up of chronic patients. The implementation of a care model through this platform, which is integrated with corporate information systems, enables a continuous follow-up of the patient's clinical situation, so that we can anticipate episodes of disease worsening, develop actions aimed at restoring normality and preventing relapses or rearrangements. Telea is currently implemented in more than 50% of primary care services, and by the end of this year we will reach 100 percent. And I also wanted to point out the Health Platform where patients can not only receive advice for the follow-up of their illness, but also have their clinical history on a tablet, on the mobile phone or on their computer, and for only a few days, they can also see the images of the diagnostic tests they have performed. The Galician Strategy for Care for People in Chronic Situations focuses on the assistance of these patients in primary care and integrates all programs that have been developed in recent years under an innovative work model, oriented to the satisfaction of patients and also professionals; a program, of course, proactive, looking for chronic patients before the periods of worsening of their illness arrive. And you've also improved in recent times in connection with the hospital. In recent years, the communication of professionals between health centres and hospitals has improved considerably with the implementation of e-consulta, a situation that is beneficial to both professionals. So also in the Galego Health Service we have rapid ways of caring for oncologic patients or for chronic pathologies of high prevalence, in which primary care physicians can preferably derive those cases once there is a suspicion. In 2018, people attended were 16,409. In addition, we have implemented the interconsultation model at both levels of assistance and revised the capacity to respond to services with more delay. We also increased access to complementary tests; from primary care, access to hospital specialties is being generalized through the implementation of the query manager. You also improve for professionals and facilitating tools for them. These changes have accompanied labour stability measures for primary care workers. For example, in 2018 they worked in primary care in Galicia 2.566 doctors, between health centres and CAP, and 96% had stable contracts. The 2017-2020 stabilisation plan, signed with most unions, gives us the possibility, in this four-year period, to stabilize five thousand professionals. The result of human resources loyalty policy was the call for public job offers and transfer contests, which enabled many primary care professionals to stabilize their work situation and bring them closer to places of their choice. In addition, internal mobility processes allow people to opt for positions that facilitate the reconciliation of family life, with the open and permanent competition that began for the first time in Galicia just a few months ago. I also want to point out here the recognition of the professional career: it's the first time there's an ordinary professional career in Galicia. By fulfilling our commitment, at the sectoral table of 6 July 2018, the Health Council reached an agreement with most of the trade union organizations represented at the above table, namely CESM, Satse, UXT, CSIF and CIG. The salaries of stable staff were increased in January 2019 with the application of professional career wages, which in 2018 will be 60% of the total and in 2020 will be 100%, and will affect approximately twenty-two thousand professionals. These measures have a double objective: to improve the working conditions of healthcare professionals and to provide good quality care for patients, at a level of care where contact between the professional and the patient is the closest. One of the main problems in the organization of primary care is overdemand: those patients who access the health center without previously mentioned. In order to be able to order this situation, a pioneering measure was launched in the Vigo area, tested with remarkable success at the Double Health Centre throughout 2018, which allows, with the involvement of all professional categories of the centres — administrative, nursing and medical personnel — the management of care according to their priority, collaboration that relieves the doctor of an important care burden and orders his work. In short, in Galicia we have detected disagreement and imbalance in the model of primary care of so much success in recent years, and, of course, we understand that the most important request that professionals make to us is the need to have more time for their work of attention to the citizen. We have excellent, accessible and resolute primary care, equipped with competent professionals who are suffering from tensions arising from the absolute absence of replacement personnel and from a socio-demographic turn towards the chronicity and pluripathology of aging, which make it necessary an evolution of the successful model that we have enjoyed so far. In the face of this situation of difficulty, we had meetings with different heads of service in all the health areas of Galicia and with the nursing coordinators, and we were testing the situation, and we could make several decisions, basically three. In view of this, the first would be to do nothing and to wait for this to be a national problem and to be resolved from a national point of view. Show yourself, in the broadest sense of the word. Or take action, which was the decision we made since the Health Council. In December was the beginning. We decided to start a process that is most participatory in primary care that did not have precedents in our country, because the changes needed by the organizational model are only possible since the dialogue and collaborative work of public administrations, professionals and citizenship. Only then will we be able to guarantee what it cost us so much to build. So with the collaboration of all the professional categories of primary care, we will develop proposals for the new primary care model, which was presented to professionals on February 20 and which I now present here, in this audience. Of course, what we're looking for is a change in the current model, which involves all professional categories but also involves society. It is a difficult time, but if we take the right measures, and with the commitment of all actors in the situation, we are sure to be once again pioneers in Galicia to define this new model which, surely, other autonomous communities will later copy. Let's try to define. We started from ten working groups, over a hundred professionals, who met in the months of January and February 2019 to set the lines behind the new model. These improvement groups were composed of family doctors, nursing, pharmacists, social workers, physiotherapists, general service staff, pediatricians, matrons, dentists and dental hygienists, staff of the continuing care points and, of course, patient and citizen associations. There were 21 meetings at which 525 proposals were identified, prioritized in the short term, six months; medium-term, twelve months; and long-term, beyond the twenty-four months, in relation to six thematic areas that will be previously established. The first group, the creation of primary care teams and the redefinition of teams that — as mentioned at the outset — were formed in Alma-Ata. Inter-level coordination and communication, the second important point, which right now poses problems that we must solve. The third group is demand care, schedules, overdemand reception, homes, scheduled and urgent care. Point four is training, teaching and research. The fifth point is about relationships with patients and with the community. And the sixth point is about the need plan and their prioritization. We also invite you to participate in the definition of the new model to all primary care professionals by sending proposals and arriving through the email created for this purpose. By means of this procedure, 270 documents are received. In addition, a participatory process of citizenship was carried out, as it said, novice, with 4,549 surveys sent out, of which 2,326 — almost half — submitted proposals, in addition to responding to the survey. Stressing that 99.04 of Galician citizens considered it a priority to improve coordination between primary health care and hospital care. Among the proposals made by citizens of Galicia regarding primary care, they highlight the greater coordination among all primary care professionals in providing services; enhancing home care; knowing what the interlocutor is in health centres when there is a problem; and being able to cancel a hospital appointment from the health centre even if it was not processed by primary care. In view of all these approaches, the Galego Health Service prepared a draft with the proposals for this new model. This document is structured according to the six thematic areas set, the six strategic lines, and for each one they have been defined as targets that are developed through short, medium or long-term actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u33	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u34	Good morning. Good morning, too, to the children who accompany us from the rostrum. Good morning, Mr. Almuinha. The truth, at least the enthusiasm that you put in the audience, it's noticed that what you came from is of your own volition I haven't just seen it myself, eh! [[Applause]] You insist on coming to talk about your book and not listening to that cry out there about the opposition to the people's health policies. The truth is, after so much prepotence, of so much choleria, are you, the People's Party in general and you in particular, suffering a real bath on the evaluation of the health policies of the People's Party, and I think that at this point you'll have to be aware that no one is buying your new primary care plan. At this point, you have to have the list that neither scientific societies, nor professional schools, nor the Galego Medical College Council, nor the Primary Care Coordinator, nor nursing, nor the unions, nor the population in general, there is virtually no one left to tell you that they do not accept their new primary care model, because it's neither new nor solves the very serious problems that primary care has. That's not the goal either, Mr. Almuña, and you know it perfectly well. Because the strategy of creating a problem to soon come, theoretically, with a solution under the arm is already old. You created the problem, we're in a very critical situation of general health and primary care, but we're in this situation because you wanted us to be in this situation. You created the problem, but they're not giving the solution. The solution would be to make yourself a whole amendment, an amendment to the ideological project of the People's Party, and that's not the plan, isn't it, Mr. Almuña? One thing is to play with confusion, it seems they do, put some patch, and another thing would be to solve the structural problems that public health has, the primary care in particular, with a real model change, and of course there is the People's Party. The serious problems of primary care are not the fruit of chance, I am not the fruit of a biblical curse, I am not the fruit of fatality, I am the fruit of the strategic decisions and policies that you have been making: the decision to cut budget, the decision to go down on health to get more business and private health. We're in this situation of extreme gravity because they've been looking for it, because if there's no deterioration in public health, there's no consciousness or drift towards private health. And for that they have put in place all this policy of cuts, privatization and demolition of public health. You've got everybody pissed off, Mr. Almuinho. He's got everyone absolutely pissed off, and every day more. Every day there's a new collective who's telling you that no, that by that road not, that they want real solutions, that they don't accept parking lots, that's what you're putting on the table and it doesn't provide any solution. Look, they're still holding the CAP professionals on strike; a collective that's been mobilized for more than a year, which's been on demand for more than a year, with its demanding table, above its table, and has been on undefined strike since January. Despite all this, you still do not respond to your demands, which, I insist, have been on your table for a year. And they are not demands of the goat or of an occurrence, but of a constant and permanent reality. The Vigo CAP is left with a doctor less than a fourth time in the year, in 2019, which has just begun. And what do the professionals give him? We're tired, we're very tired, and this is a permanent stress. They hung, for example, in the Vigo CAP, there's nothing, a sign on the door: "In this service there's a doctor missing. Sergas doesn't replace him. We regret the trouble." This one day yes and another day too. Professionals who say that at the Cangas CAP have only been with a doctor since 22 hours again. New collapse in the CAP, at full entrance, in Vigo. Add it up and go on. At the CAP de la Coruña, in Cambre, a new doctor. They report problems in several CAPs because of the lack of doctors and nurses. They force 100 percent of minimum services at the continuing attention points, when then there's not a hundred percent of the staff they have to be doing their job. You make it 100 percent so you don't notice the strike, but it turns out there's not 100 percent of the staff then to do the job they have to do. We can follow the following and add: "The Guard's CAP is without a doctor in the afternoon," "The Cangas CAP is again without a doctor." We could be all the time in attendance by relating to the lack of professionals in the CAP, to the continuing attention points of our country. A year of mobilization, a year of demanding answers, and at this point you haven't been able to reach agreement with these professionals yet. We can talk about the group of doctors, of precarious optional fighting, who were organized after you launched this new continuity contract that you sold as the last miracle. And on the part of this collective they have been given good evidence that they disagree, that they disagree because they think it is to try to consolidate absolute and unpaid precariousness, that they actually define them as condemning them to be in a 24-hour guard and 365 days a year. And they oppose the establishment of abusive days, because it would mean exhaustion for the professionals and a serious safety problem for the patients, and the creation of the figure of the pediatrician area, which you had to rectify, but now they want to go through the back door with the creation of this continuity contract; which means that they will not achieve the objectives of fidelity of the staff, those thousand and peak professionals who, in the ten years that the People's Party has been leading since the return to the Government of Unity, you have expelled the country. And now they want to go to Portugal to bring professional. How can you lie so much, Mr. Almuña! How can you lie so much by making an offer to the Portuguese professionals, lying about how much you're going to win here and the working conditions! It had to be the workers of Greece who had sent them the reality of what you offer. The reality of what you offer is the accumulation of short-term replacements, and that, to win what you told them, they had to work 190 hours a month every month, 24 hours a day and 365 days... that is, 40% of the unfixed month's portfolio, the obligation to be available 24 hours a day 365 days a year. That is to say, inflamable contracts, Mr. Almuña, that, instead of loyalizing and offering decent contracts to the professionals themselves and negotiating with them, what they do is keep these conditions lions and seek people from outside to accept those conditions. That's not the way, Mr. Padre. And we can keep talking about the population in general, that every day he mobilizes more demanding professionals, that they are not willing to continue cutting them off, eliminating pediatricians, eliminating professionals, remaining with waiting lists, not having health care. And they're telling them that for this primary care plan it's not the time, because it's already the diagnosis made, and that it's the time to take solutions; and that this plan, the new primary care model, is a statement of intentions that makes a plagiarism of the primary care model made in 2008 that they didn't want to apply or start. They're plagiarizing some things that they didn't want to put in place and the other is a declarative question — we'll value, we'll do, we'll implement... without specific questions. What do the professionals give them? That they need time — i.e. more professional — that they need the recovery of the management capacity of real, non-subordinate primary care, the recovery of primary care agencies with solvency, budgetary and decision-making capacity, which they need more professionals, who need technical resources and improve appropriations, and budgeting. They need the issues that we have seen here bringing to this Parliament and that the People's Party is systematically voting against. In the previous plenary session, the BNG brought here a number of measures that go in this direction. What did the People's Party do? To vote against. You — who didn't say so in this mini-first intervention — didn't refer to those seventeen with some EUR million that says you're going to put up like any budget allocation. What's it gonna be? It offers again equipment to change printers, 100 percent of printers, and a part of computers. After years of millionaire games in the budgets for technological equipment, where were they putting those budgetary resources, when it turns out that now, instead of providing those resources to hire staff and solve the real problem that the professionals and citizens are demanding, come with a series of measures for something that they are not asking them either the population or the professionals, and with resources that they had to be implemented because they've been putting in budgets resources for that? And it turns out that, after years of letting the game to improve health centres, leaving it under zero — EUR100,000 in 2016 and scarce games for other years—...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u35	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u36	...now they come to us with a really scarce game to improve health centers. Indeed, Mr. Almuña, in his first intervention he repeated mantras talking about demands that were not on the table. I hope that in your second intervention you will be able to speak of what the professionals are demanding, which is the recovery of the primary care agency with resolution capacity, budgeting and decision-making capacity, and more professional, more budgeting, decent contracts and a decent job situation for the professionals.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u37	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u38	We've got to start over there. I hope you can talk about it in your second intervention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Now we greet students and sixth graders of the Froebel Multilingual Center in Pontevedra, as well as their teachers and companions. Welcome to Parliament. And now you have the floor, by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u40	Thank you, President. Good morning. Good morning, Counselor. I confess that I was surprised by the intervention. I thought I was making a very long introduction and was going to start explaining the primary care model. But when I thought I'd start explaining it, the intervention ended. In any case, as we have learned by means and by professionals, not by the Council, as usual, on the other hand, because we will try to give our vision. [[Applause]] You talked about the need for a collaborative model in terms of coordination and consensus with professionals, which is what you usually say often even if it does not apply; a model of consensus of medical schools, nursing schools, professional associations, physiotherapists' schools, social workers' associations, users' associations, trade unions, sectoral unions, general groups, political groups, groups of ambulance workers and CAPs... it is a model of consensus but not. It is a model of consensus, but the great consensus of health — which this Government has achieved — is that everyone is against the Council. And that's a great model of consensus, but to see if we can make a great model of consensus in favor. You probably didn't really explain here the model and the measures you're proposing because you know everyone's against. And you're probably trying to crawl to see if you're able to make a proposal that someone accepts; probably because you thought you'd be able to get here with an agreement and then assume this appearance. But he couldn't defend anything because nothing they proposed, nothing, is accepted by the sector. Professionals, users, collectives in general, are rejecting these measures for several things. First of all, for something that we have faithfully shared, because we have been warning years—the screams, the screams on the streets, the parliaments, the health centres, the meetings with you collectives—with some problems that have been cleared with some pride from the Council even, like the demographic pyramid of professionals, the quality of work, the problem that has the difficult coverage squares, the two-speed health care reinforced with the reform of the Health Law, so you have stripped a part of the population of having a second health and prioritized some services from some hospitals. It's true that you defend that model, you usually don't dare say it, but you defend it, and so you put it. There's a deficit in resources, a decrease in primary care, when primary care agencies have been removed, they've withdrawn their budgets -- nowadays primary care must ask for permission directly to everyone who has hospital care to do something. And that's a model that leads to primary care -- which is what we're talking about today primarily -- that's undervalued and, therefore, has a feeling of disarray, detachment, neglect, which is what professionals say. There's a situation of staff, without the replacement of professionals, which leads to enormous saturation, with professionals who have to care for 50 or 60 patients a day in a natural way. Does it happen in some places that don't? It happens not in some places, but it happens in many that it is, and that's unacceptable because professionals need, above all -- and that's what they're demanding -- something as simple as time to care for patients, who don't have it because of a neglected model. It is difficult — it is not yet impossible but it is difficult — now to solve all the problems that have accumulated in ten years of neglect of public health. There's a more concerned advice on saving yourself and short-lived than solving your problems. You never worried about the real problems in the background, what they were worried about was going out well, being able to solve them, making tricks to send the information, getting mediatedly to have a good picture. But in the end they couldn't solve the problems. Because the demographic problem we have, that we have a generation of doctors and doctors who are going to retire and who are starting to retire much more now, is not a problem that nobody can find now. It's been a problem for years, which we've known since they came in. Because normally -- although it's difficult to predict -- everyone is doing years at the same speed; so we've been knowing when there's going to be a retirement boom for many years. And this isn't right now, they've been ruling for ten years, and they've met now that retirement begins. Where were the measurements? Nowhere. There have been many proposals, there have been many. We can probably discuss if some of them are right, if they're wrong, but there are proposals. I know there's going to be a spokesman here who's going to say that the opposition doesn't care about any of the proposals, that they've made no contribution. We're used to it. They're not going to tell you, though they might because you didn't put any proposals here. But don't worry, that speech we already know and we won't listen to him much. But there have been many proposals here historically, not only in this legislation but in others as well. There were proposals on positive discrimination on squares, positive discrimination on difficult-covered squares, as the teachers do, as the police do, so that we can reward or facilitate people who cover difficult-covered squares to take priority in subsequent promotions, have increases, have better wages in some respects, which are easier to achieve. There are some issues that have to do with improving the system, not only is it a "too much" question — that too — of more resources, or more professionals, especially. Because asking for more is easy, I recognize that you sometimes say that we ask more "because yes." It's not because. It's true that asking for more is easy. We still have to set up budgets. I remind you that you have a smaller budget in primary care now that 10 years ago, there is less budget. And they have 1,249 professionals less this year's budget than ten years ago, 1,249! Tell him the budgets, except the budgets that you propose to us are lies — which can be. But I will believe even your budgets. There have been 1,249 professionals less in primary care now than ten years ago. There's the budgets. Of course, it's a problem that resources can't be unlimited, it's true. You cannot make a schedule by saying yes to everything. But in addition to a question of "more" — that sometimes there are some things to invest more is so priority that we have to do so — it's a matter of "better". You promoted and defended this royal decree that limited training to nurses and nurses. And we argued that this royal decree limited all teams, that we were making attention difficult. Because things nurses and nurses were not doing, and so they were taking care of some things, and we could free them time. Because our nurses and nurses have a lot of training they weren't leaving. A socialist government had to arrive in Madrid to withdraw that royal decree. And that's a measure that was good for nurses. Why? Because we allow a multidisciplinary team to exist and many tasks can be shared. We have proposed here in this Parliament that the catalogue of diagnostic tests be expanded for primary professionals, especially doctors and doctors. You replied in 2014 that they were already working on it. They've been working on this for five years, and they haven't really been able to say if they think doctors and doctors have to have more diagnostic evidence. You've banished them with great pride. And from then on, you can't work when you consider that you have absolute truth. Probably some of the measures that have been proposed here can be more or less advanced, I recognize that it's likely and that we can discuss it. You have the data — which never makes it easier, by the way — and we don't. We have them in other ways. But they probably have more data. It would be good if we could share them because we'd probably be able to reach some agreement to some extent. But you assume that they have absolute truth and, with their absolute truth, we are where we are, where we are, which is a problem. And that problem can't be solved now from taking cheerful action in which you don't believe, because that's a problem, Counselor, that you have now. They want to sell a money order that you can't believe. You are now beginning to recover what the primary care agencies were in any other way — even — so as not to call them the same, so that it doesn't seem like they're going to listen to that horrible Government Tourin, who was a disaster. They're going to start taking measures that were implemented ten years ago and that you've been withdrawing, like the professional career they're implementing, or like the agreements they had with the professionals to recover the pay agreements. And now they're going to recover primary care agencies in another format. By the way, to really recover them, with budgets, because having a primary care manager who can't have any resources is to have a useless figure, the professionals are saying, yes, we'll recover those agencies that you've eliminated, but with budget allocation; that's what they tell them. You're thinking of recovering now that continuity contract that was already proposed ten years ago. They now count it's the Basque model; let it be!, may it be the Basque model. The Basque model goes for us, but even the cantabrian model or the asturian model, which doesn't have to be so far, in case they want to stay half the way. Any of the northern valenes communities. Of course, actually, you're thinking about things now that you don't believe, so it's not credible. You can't defend a model from what even there's nothing they proudly said was invalid, because so you can't defend a councillorship, and especially this one. It is important to believe in the system that is defending itself. You were parapetting in some measures, they said they were perfect and they invalidated all the criticism, and now they mean they invented the powder, which is to do everything they once thought was inescapable, unacceptable and invalid. They want to do it now as the world has been discovered; now they want to make us believe that we are in the position where you were. It's a jaleo. We've been here for ten years, everyone in this sector is defending measures, and you're saying no. And now they want to move over and say, we're going to reform the model and we're going to do all of these things; which takes them all around the world, as the professionals of the system tell them, and as the medical schools tell them. We've been attending meetings for years, and everyone knows what to do: what to do is not talk about it for the ninth time. And they need time, they need more professionals to have time and they need all the team professionals to have roles. That's what this system needs: to really believe it. Counselor, we believe you guys have stepped into that model and are not qualified to say now that they're going to change everything and reform the model. You believe in a model; it's worthy, decent and legitimate that you believe. But that model exploded, it's not worth it, and so we need to start by changing that model, and in order to change that model, we need to change the direction of the counseling. That's our position, Counselor. We believe that you can hardly change something that they defended so vehemently now. So if we start around, we think it'll be more honest for you to let another advisor apply that model, if you really believe it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u41	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u42	Thank you, President. It's incredible, Counselor, your presence. I don't believe it. The one that's falling, with all the professionals against it, with an already long strike — for months — of the CAP, with all the schools, with all the professional groups and with all the world against it, and the blame is that there are no professionals, that people go a lot to the doctor and that people are very old. That's what it's all about. And here it seems that everyone has agreed with you, that everyone agrees. It's incredible your presence, Mr. Almouniña; it's incredible your irresponsibility, with what we have, with the problem there is. You come here to blame others, by chance; to forget about the ten years of budget cuts, staff cuts and replenishment rates that have led to lower primary care in this country. You're talking about a budget increase, where? We lost 300 million euros in ten years, 300 million euros in health care in ten years. Real terms, Mr. Almuña. And the worst thing is that not even the whole budget is running. Primary care is a small, minimal amount: an eleven percent or a twelve percent of the health budget. Do you think that you can provide quality assistance? And you propose a balloon probe: eight million euros a year from a match that you cut to the bottom of a hundred thousand euros to repair the health centers; that's your proposal. And now he says that with eight million euros — which, by the way, we'd like him to tell us where they're going to come from, where they're going to go, what chapter and what they're going to devote to — everything will be arranged, and with a chump role that they bring there, which they say is a plan. [[Mrs. Solla Fernández shows you a document to the members of the House.]] A plan of what? If there is no budgetary increase in Chapter I! If you won't be more personal! A plan of what, Mr. Almuinna? Consensive to whom? Between you and me? His appearance is an insult, as they've been insulting professionals for months. How many months have the CAP professionals been on strike? Have you ever done a case for any of the measures? On request to increase personnel, to match the teams or not to let the attention points remain undiscovered? No, we're still the same. And their solution is to bring us some papers here, see if people shut up, and say they're going to give us eight million euros. In what? Where? Where are the more personnel? There isn't, Mr. Almuño. But the fault lies with the people who go to the doctor and that there are no professionals. And we solve it by also imposing Telea on professionals, which solves a lot. Look, you didn't pull out, today, any public offer that comes back from the staff you've cut off for all these years. Stabilizing jobs is very good, Mr. Almuño, but that's not what they're doing. And, please, that you speak of conciliation is an insult, directly! You, who don't pay the guards to the professionals who are mothers -- that's the reality; there are judgments, Mr. Almuña -- that don't suit many jobs; you, who force professionals to be available twenty-four hours every three hundred sixty-five days of the year in primary care at the continued attention points. What kind of reconciliation is that? That lie and fraudulent contract you're offering, they're going around advertising-- oh, ten people answered! [[Mrs. Solla Fernández shows you a document to the members of the House.]] That doesn't solve the cuttings of ten years, Mr. Almuña, and you know it. It doesn't make it easy to reconcile, of course, to be the three hundred sixty-five days of the year available to you, to move them 40 kilometers within the same geographic area. You don't want professionals, you want slaves; that's what you want, that's reality. "Position of the head and coordination of the Primary Care Service"—strategic lines. You return primary care agencies, but return them with decision-making capacity. They have humiliated professionals, having to ask permission to do a lot of activities, things, derivations and interconsultations. That doesn't work out for you in this paperboard, Mr. Almuña. They give them budget and give them decision-making capacity, correct what they did wrong, they admit they did it wrong. It doesn't work out. And then, above — as the opposition's comrades and companions have said here — you're able to piss off all the collectives, insult the nursing. We will devote ourselves to making bureaucracy for you: here gathered the gentlemen deciding what we will do for the nursing profession. [[Mrs. Solla Fernández shows you a document to the members of the House.]] Don't talk to us anymore, which doesn't matter; let's go back to the 1980s. Look, people specialize, people work in training, medical professionals, nursing professionals... and, of course, we have magnificent professionals. You can't come here to insult us with a proposal; we're not going to do bureaucracy. And, of course, what you're not going to be able to do is to divide professionals in the struggle by having better primary care for all professional categories, worthy, that allow them to work as a team and let the community out. And you have to see your plan. To me, honestly, it's not worth it... apart from that, you didn't even explain it here, it must be that for you, it's not very interesting, or you don't believe what you put here on the carpet this: "Relation with patients and the community. Implement Community action as a normalised activity." Of course, because medical and nursing professionals don't do community work because they don't want to. You don't make yourself personal. How can people who have fifty or sixty daily appointments do their job well? You think professionals don't want to do their job right? But what is this? And they say, "Develop a specific school health program." You voted against implanting school nursing. Increase the knowledge of citizenship. Look, this isn't a serious plan. Ask professionals what their needs are. They've been -- years old! -- telling them there's not enough staff, that you keep keeping the cuts in chapter I, as much as you say here, Mr. Almuña. But eight million euros — I don't know where — repairing some centers will probably solve the health budget. Just the partial amendments that this group presented about what you are proposing were around thirty-one million euros, Mr Almuña, and were certainly insufficient, because we were working on your budget. But do you think people are stupid and think that what they pose and advertise in the media is going to solve a problem, a very serious and structural deficit of primary care? Look, the chiefs of service gave him a plant in Vigo, and they planted it because, in addition to going with the accused manager meeting with them, you continually ignore their demands. We have people attending sixty daily consultations and we have health centers -- we're sick of moving it here and in the Health Commission -- waiting for a week, waiting for ten days and with professionals who have absolutely to attend to everything. You're wondering why you're coming to the health center, wondering how the rest of the public health is, you're wondering if, in the meantime of a week or ten days, you have to go to demand, Mr. Almuína. In the end, of course, you can make improvements, but everything is about improving the quality of care and thus increasing the number of professionals. You can't cut more than a thousand professionals in public health and then come here to say that it's the fault of not knowing what and that there's no staff and that the solution is to write four things on a paper, say that they're going to give eight million euros and go to Portugal to post an ad with a false job offer. Fortunately, people have two fingers in front of them and when they see them they already understand that what you're offering is a slave job, Mr. Almuña. That doesn't solve anything at all. [[Balbordo.]] There are many Members of the People's Party who want to intervene, and it's all right, health is very important. [[Murmurs.]] It would be very good if you explained the points that you move in this paper, that you explain where those eight million euros are going, and where that chapter comes from, that I said here is going to increase or not chapter I of the 412B programme: primary care, and whether you're going to have public job offers to increase nursing professionals, medical professionals, physiotherapy professionals, professionals generally, in general, all primary care. Because you, after unanimously adopting an initiative that took our group a year and a half ago to implement community nursing, assume that they're taking out dozens of squares. There's not a single minimum measure here to meet the demands of the staff they've been making for many months. You didn't even have the decency to move here that there are differences, assume them, and explain why professionals are against this role that you present to us; that's the reality. So you have a replica shift where you can explain something. Tell us here if you're going to increase staff chapter I, because without more staff there's no capacity to give more assignments, there's no ability to rearrange and there's no capacity to do anything at all. Tell us also what they're going to do with the rest of the professional categories: how they solve the problem of pediatrics, what they're going to do with the absence of physiotherapists and what they're going to do with the absence of midwives in primary care, and then, if so, talk a little about the role they've come to present.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. I don't know if I'll have to ask Mr. Torrado to speak or if I'll have to say what Mr. Torrado wants to hear. You will know, Mr. President. By the way, I wanted to reject the alleged sabotage act that occurred this morning in Cañiza to an ambulance, with damage to buildings and with the important fear that people have experienced, it seems, in the face of the explosions that have occurred. Counselor, what some call lack of enthusiasm we consider it quiet, and thank you always for your tone. Listening to Mrs. Solla, it seems that in Venezuela the light came back to hospitals and people no longer die there. Mrs. Solla has been recently. [[Murmurs.]] I suppose you'd admire the magnificent health system that this country has. Well, and going to the subject, Counsellor, we thank you for your presence in this Chamber to report on this new model of primary care and of the one hundred and seventy-five proposals arising from the working groups assembled in the council to move forward in solutions — those which Mrs Prado says do not exist — in the short, medium and long term, in the face of the difficult situation of primary care, mainly derived from the shortage of professionals and the chronicity and aging of the population. Taking out of hemerothec, of these one hundred seventy-five measures there is a commitment to implement seventy-five in the short term, with their assessment in October, and fifty-three more in February 2020. President Feijóo has already publicly acknowledged the eavesdroppings of primary care and a certain neglect of the same in front of hospitals. You've held meetings with the heads of the Dimissionary Service in the Vigo area there in December, at which obvious agreements were reached, with the proposal of a plan for this area. This plan included measures to facilitate the accessibility of the sick to hospitals, with a maximum of three days to respond to the interconsultation, allowing the request for additional tests by the family doctor or re-establishing obsolete or damaged material and investment in technology. You also accepted at that meeting, according to the media, a special OPE for family doctors and pediatricians in six months with the summons of the legal maximum allowed squares. I think those commitments with Vigo's chiefs of service are being fulfilled or are being able to do it. All this was combined with stable contracts for professionals who completed family or pediatric specialty, a contract of continuity — which has been discussed here — with a duration of between one and three years, with a minimum remuneration of EUR 61,500, to make replacements in a defined geographical area, with holidays and with a maximum of two compulsory guards — if, Mrs Solla, they must be available, but available to citizens, not to the councillor — and certainly contracts to make replacements. Ladies and gentlemen, in health there has always been and there will be substitutions, government who governs, because they are necessary; it is that slave work which Mrs Solla also refers to. Some doctors in the area of Pontevedra have, according to them, rejected the cheating contract that was offered to doctors working in Portugal. A collective called "Pearries in Primary Care" maintains that these contracts are not directed to the coverage of a particular vacancy in a health centre or the replacement of a particular holder, but to make substitutions at the level of several district centres to enable immediate coverage of needs. Indeed, that is the contract offered to substitute professionals, in fact. Another thing would be a plaza adjudication, which would have to be offered in a public job offer, or an interim contract, which is covered by the recruitment lists. That stable contract to make replacements in better conditions seems to be, Counselor, which has already been signed by some professionals. It also surprises the chiefs of Vigo's service at the last meeting they held with you by refusing the presence of the area manager at that meeting to discuss matters of their competence. You showed on that day all your capacity for dialogue, keeping with your only presence a meeting of more than an hour with these heads of service, trying to bring the situation back, but still, there was no turning back from that posture and it was not possible to advance in that negotiation. But you, once again, keep your will for dialogue and leave channels open for another meeting with these heads of service, a meeting at which the new primary care model should be dealt with, the area needs plan, in which you will use part of the 17300,000 euros committed, and the schedule of implementation of actions committed to the professionals, for which I think it is important, if not essential, the presence of the manager. We trust that the dialogue will be resumed by these heads of service. The working groups, which included the various professional groups, were set up to reach consensus and provide solutions to the problems of primary care, groups in which all the groups who wanted to participate, for example, the Medical College of Pontevedra seemed not to attend. Then it was the doctors themselves who rejected the second phase of the meetings, at which the different professionals were mixed to reach conclusions on the proposals made by each professional collective, and claimed two reasons. The first was the requirement on the part of the medical group of a single primary management with an optional at the front, while the representatives of the nursing staff asked for their own direction at the same level as that of the doctors. The second red line claimed was a starting commitment for primary care. Channels of participation — as you have said — were opened for citizenship, to pick up ideas of improvement and contributions. You announced a public job offer in which the 213 extraordinary squares, by exhausting the maximum rest rate, at 108%, that 8% would be all public health-incorporated squares, to make a total of 1,323, of them in the 2019 call for 200 family doctors, 35 for pediatricians, who, together with those offered in 2018, will make a total of 254 and 93 in both specialities. Assemade, class squares and staff specialists in family and community nursing will be offered. You have tried to find solutions in the Ministry of Health: the request of an extraordinary family OPE, which has been refused; now it seems that this rejection is not as it has been, because it seems that you now count on the support of Navarra, Castile-Leon, Andalusia and — although something more doubtful — also Castile-La Mancha. You've requested the convening of thirteen more family medicine squares and six pediatrics. He asked him to speed up his titles, to approve the qualifications of foreign doctors, which he was actually transferring to the Basque Country or is about to transfer to the Basque Country; we all assume the reasons for this concession. By insisting on the stable contract for replacements, also for MIR, family and pediatricians, who end their specialty, you have campaigned to disseminate it in Portuguese media, to encourage the return of primary professionals who went to the neighbouring country in the years in which our country had stopped and the wages in Portugal were attractive. I understand, Mr. Almuña, so it comes out in the media, that you have already had a number of requests for information from doctors working in Portugal. But that offer does not seem to concern the opposition groups, but it does concern the authorities and professional schools in the Portuguese country, in view of the possibility that Portuguese doctors will accept the terms of the contract that you offer in the current situation of the labour and economic conditions they have in Portuguese health. This contract — which is abusive according to some groups and adopted at the sectoral table, which seems to forget the opposition — is well received by professionals from our country and even from the neighbouring country. The Journal of News headlined: "The German Government recruits Portuguese doctors when it pays twice as much." That constant horror we've heard in the last years of flight of professionals to Portugal seems to be that now it has little vision of reality. In short, for his part, Mr. Counsellor, they are either taking action or requesting measures to alleviate the difficult situation of doctor deficits that cross Galicia, as well as the rest of the autonomous communities. And in that context, you published a hundred and seventy-five proposed measures to improve primary care, fruit of these working groups, similar in some cases, though more complete, than those that were done at the Ministry in Madrid. A document of measures that you yourself have agreed not to close — in statements in the media — pending further negotiations and new contributions. And proof of that, in the paper I think it was yesterday or earlier that physiotherapists accept the document after the inclusion of some additional measures requested by their representatives. In the opposite sense, representatives of medical scientific societies and their professional colleges refused to attend a meeting on Tuesday of Entroido, it seems that because of discrepancies in the format of the meeting; they did not seem to accept the presence of the people who participated in the working groups, demanding that the meeting be unique and exclusively with them; and you — another show of their negotiating spirit — committed to setting a new date for that meeting. The strategic lines, the six points, the six strategic lines you have already defined; I am not going to repeat them. I'm going to point out, from a professional's point of view, which I find more interesting. I would like to know who is against the creation of a primary sub-direction in the Council, a primary care direction in each area, to enhance the figure of the head of service, and, in addition, to have a larger coordinator and that both positions have lower rank of patients; the voluntary mobility of professionals and the incorporation of specialized nurses; the reordination of professional competences with unified supplementary testing catalogues — even today comes in the press that have already reached an agreement for digestive endoscopy and cerebrovascular TACs for primary staff—; the bidirectional interconsultation, with a maximum time of response of ten days; hospital reference professionals for pluripathological patients; the adaptation of schedules, not blocking of complete agendas; the unburratization measures, autonomy for managing heads of service to decide between prolongation of daily or interstitucionation; the coordination of community care; These are the ones that, as a professional, seem to me to be the most important measures. And finished, Counselor. This group supports the plan based on those one hundred seventy-five proposals for the new primary care model. We urge all professional groups to continue to move forward in their development, with new proposals, avoiding the exclusion of individuals or groups. We want this project to reach a good port with the collaboration of all. We thank you, Mr Vázquez Almuña, for your efforts, for your dedication and for your capacity for dialogue that you have shown in the last three months, which I believe no one can deny. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u45	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Replica, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. I wanted to start this second part by bringing the words of the Basque Health Adviser, who said a few days ago that Galicia had been the autonomous community that better evolution in health had in the last ten years. The Basque counselor, who does not belong to our party and who is certainly one of Spain's best-healthed autonomous communities. Calling you paper or parking lots to the work of many people, of many people! because those one hundred seventy-five proposals are not made by the directors of the Health Council, but by more than one hundred professionals, more than four thousand citizens, more than two hundred seventy professionals, who were also involved in the initiatives by e-mail. There is no single initiative in these proposals that was born from the pen pen of a director of the Health Council. So at the very least, I would ask about the opposition to work for two months of magnificent professionals from all professional categories of this council. [[Applause]] The magnificent health we have in Galicia is not the property of a government, it is the property of all who built it: the professionals, the citizens, but also the managers. Look, the strategic lines and goals marked by the professionals who have been working for a while mark a first strategic line, which is the creation of primary care teams where new roles are defined. In previous proposals, from the Bipartite, he never had all professional categories. We do, because it seems to us that the Alma-Ata spirit is precisely the team; the team is the most important thing for proper functioning of the health system, in any situation, in primary, in hospital, and that's why the first point, the first strategic line goes there. And in the petitions not only of those who were working, but also of the interviews we had for many months, not with Vigo's chiefs of service, Vigo's nursing coordinators, but of all the health areas in Galicia, they asked for a direct line between primary care and the Council. And so in the new structure there's going to be a general primary care direction, but there's also going to be a direction, as we've been asked at all times, of primary care within the structure of each health area, with all primary care competences. This was asked from all health areas, all professionals, and we think it's important, but not what the opposition says, without knowledge of the independent primary care and hospital care agencies. I was a hospital manager. At that time the relationships between primary and hospital were bad, because the objectives of primary care and hospital care were different. At the moment, the integration that took place in Galicia — which was done, by the way, also in the Basque Country — has clearly improved the attention of citizens. Because there is a common objective, which is the assistance of citizens in Galicia, where they are, in the primary care field or in the area of hospital care. And I put it by chance, at that moment when I started that job, that there were appointments every day of more than 50 people in the hospital where I was for attention at the Sintrom, and the Sintrom was done in the hospital because it wasn't meant to be done in primary school. The elementary school said no, it was supposed to be in the hospital, and the hospital was breaking up with that performance. Afterwards, it changed. And that model today is that the Sintrom should be held where it is closest to the citizen the health center or the patient's own home. Therefore, the important thing is not the structures, primary or hospital, but the integral attention of the citizen as close as possible to his place. So for us, apart from creating a primary care address, with an exclusive primary care function, there will be an area primary care commission, chaired by the management, and where all directions and heads of service will be. Because we — it is true — want to give even more hierarchy to the head of primary care, which is what must order and coordinate all primary care within his health center, and he has a direct, very direct interlocutor, who is the head of primary care, with which he will have that daily relationship. Reduced professional quota is another of the needs, it's another of our plan for the future, and for that we have to form more residents, we have to make attractive contracts to attract professional people anywhere else, who can certainly do a good job with us. And, as I say, we're already the sixth community that less TIS currently has as a patient, and our goal is to keep going down, not just by number of TIS, but by stratification of TIS, because the number is not enough. The number indicates that all people are equal to the level of treatment, and that's not true. The stratification we develop in the Council will indicate at all times the appropriate number, not by number of patients, but by complexity of this action. In the public job offer 2019, recently published, the largest since 2008, using rest rates — by the way, the opposition talks about the rest rate; the rest rate comes from the economic crisis generated by governments who have not managed to rule, who have spent more than they have entered, and therefore have led us to a very complicated situation — we are currently at a rest rate of 108%, because we meet the targets of deficit; Galicia is of the few that are fulfilling it. And the Public Service and Education gave up part of it for health to have more squares in this offer. And, as I say, in this public job offer, the largest since 2008, are 254 family doctors' squares, because we're going to add the ones we published in 2018, and 93 pediatrics, as I say, in exams in the coming months, which will leave the stabilization even more consolidated. For health graduates of vocational training, the offer is 567 squares. Among them is that of the category of nurse who specializes in family medicine and pediatrics. We will therefore clearly strengthen primary care from all professional categories, and from then on the initiative of this autonomous community of creating the specialty of nurses specialist in family medicine and pediatrics are copying it to today many autonomys, but we have already taken an early course. Complete this offer a total of 415 management staff squares and services in administrative areas, social work, maintenance and accommodation. We will certainly continue to request, whoever the next Government of Spain is — because we understand that this will not do anything anymore — more accreditations of squares, more approval of squares. Why? Because our model is a model of doctors specializing in family medicine, and we want to have a larger number, with an autonomous community budget, because only the Ministry does the accreditation of squares, but what is the maintenance and payment of these professionals does the Autonomous Community. So it's always an increase in chapter I, staff, the increase in training, which we've been doing for several years. But we don't believe in pediatrics, and therefore we'll continue to ask this or the next Government for the accreditation of more pediatrics squares, for greater coverage. We will certainly give access to the nursing and pharmacy staff to the requests for chronic patients' analyses, as well as to the catalogue of unified complementary tests necessary for their activity, and the primary care pharmacist will reconcile measures of patients in the care transition and update the prescription tree accordingly with the family doctor. I mean, we're talking about specific cases, about specific functions that will diversify all the work of the professionals who are in primary care; of course, we can unburocratize everything we can unburocratize and from then on leave the staff's assistance work so that they can perform them in the best possible way. Strategic line number 2 is interlevel coordination and communication, the relationship between primary care and hospital care, and we also included the relationship with 061. There's a clear change. Today there's news of health areas that are being incorporated, because we're not going to stop. This is a document that, as Mr. Núñez Centeno said, is still open to possible incorporations, but we to those we understand are essentials are already giving them forward, we are not going to stop. It is necessary to make decisions, because the other is to protest without more, or do nothing, that are doing so in other autonomous communities. We have certainly taken the most complicated one, which is to try to reach agreements and arrive at a new model that improves the situation as we have it. We will certainly appoint reference professionals in hospital care, convene regular meetings between primary and hospital care professionals — it is essential that this relationship — enable the electronic prescription of Ianus to 061 medical practitioners for the generation of electronic prescriptions in home care and according to Sergas guidelines or unification in all health areas of the catalogue to request additional tests from primary care. There are areas now with much bigger fan than others, and what we want, of course, is that everyone has the same access to tests and specialties. Line 3, strategy 3 is demand attention, schedules, overdemand reception, homes, scheduled attention and urgency. And there are many measures too, such as the structuring of agendas adapting to the real activities of each professional category. There will be a collaborative resolution procedure for unscheduled demand, according to homogeneous protocols, where we can integrate the nursing, but also the administrative services and the doctor in a joint action. The patient can be cared for by anyone on his or her team and according to the level of complexity. That's what we want to establish, is to take one more step: that there is from then on an increasingly complex activity, because it's also true that within the team people who integrate it have more and more training. Formalization of possible continuing statutory appointments will be promoted, which can give greater stability to the replacement staff. This contract, which is rejected by some people, leaves freedom for anyone who wants to be able to make the previous contract, but it turns out that there are people who complained that the previous contracts were day-long, months-long contracts, and they didn't have the total conditions to be able to meet for example goals, they couldn't charge targets, they couldn't stabilize or plan their vacations. Those who want that model can continue to do it, but I say: the new model is much better, and of course I think it's a sense of responsibility for our part to try to convince our professionals, because it may come from professionals from other areas, from other autonomous communities or from other countries, and they block and have those contracts, and the people who are with us can't at any time access it. So, I ask you from here to think of the situation, and that this contract is better since what we have, in addition to that we have left the one we have so far open, but that it was criticized for instability, for not gathering all the assistance resources, especially because we cannot plan your life; in this contract they can do so. And in emergency coverage, as I say, they will be covered by recruitment lists, in a way or with a new contract; as I say, I plan, we plan for it to be with that. In addition, a study on the redistribution of workloads will be carried out to adjust quotas later depending on sociodemographic characteristics. He said it before: it's very important not only to talk about the number of cards, but also about the complexity of each of the patients. Medicine must be a custom medicine. That's why Telea is important. Telea is primarily directed to the chronic patient, not only to the older patient, to the chronic patient. The diabetic children, for example, with Telea are going to have a very positive evolution, because control is going to be from their homes, from their high school, directly, to doctors and nurses responsible for them. So we're going to deploy Telea as well, 100%, in 2019, this year that we're in progress, and we're already reaching nearly a thousand citizens controlled through Telea, and we're going to continue to increase, because we understand it's very, very important. Strategic line 4 is training, teaching and research. We can't just stay in attendance. Training, research and teaching are also fundamental to keeping this health system as good as we currently have. Therefore, the head of service and coordinator of the service will organize all the continuing training, API, program courses of trainers, adapt tutors' schedules or teacher collaborators to promote further teaching and training and research. The functions of the postgraduate teacher in the health care area will be strengthened for the medical and nursing staff. As I said before, the Ministry of Health would be asked to be able to believe and increase the number of family doctors, pediatricians and other specialties in which we are underprivileged, and we will continue to do so. We also ask for and continue to ask the Ministry, as it was said here, an extraordinary MIR, because, with the increase of the squares we request, we can even more forward a few months and we can count on more specialists in less time. Strategic list 5, in relation to patients and the community, is also important. Patients and patient associations are increasingly incorporated, because their knowledge is fundamental to improving the quality of our service. And the Galician Interdepartmental Commission for Sociosanitary Care will also meet on a regular basis, and with a fundamental element such as the conditions of citizens. Training and information activities will also be carried out from primary care services on the reference population, with the support of the Galician School of Health for Citizens. And we're going to foster knowledge of platforms like E-Health, SHARE, People alive, Ulceras portal out or other already existing. And line 6 is a line that also asked us from all areas of primary care: a plan of needs; a plan of needs that, due to the crisis, for years, did not exist, but not only for them, but for the hospital level. It is true that there have been plans, for example, the socio-technology for high technology, to try to incorporate us and stay, as we are now, on the first line at the national level, with accelerators, with magnetic resonances, with mammographs, but there wasn't in the last few years. Since 2016 we have a plan of needs, and at the request of professionals, what we're going to do now is a plan of exclusive primary care, which will triple the spending in recent years in primary care. It's very important for us that the priority will be based on the heads of service. It will be the heads of service who have that decision to renew furniture, electromedical equipment, also suggest reforms that may be needed in that health center. And, of course, computer science as well. Of course, I know that opposition often criticizes what we invest in computers, but any public service you pray for has to have a powerful computer service; it's therefore fundamental, because our tools are complex, they're computer science. We have a clinical history, as I said before, an electronic recipe, all with a technological base that makes us at the level of innovation at a very high level, being distinguished even in the European Union with recognition for its use. Of course, we're going to have more and more complex electromedical equipment, and, as I say, we're going to triple that investment. It's the first time it's going to be of exclusive character for primary care, and, as I say, it's going to be soon prioritized by the heads of service. To also say that we will obviously follow the works, the works we have, but works in which we have the same in the next two years, if all the municipalities cooperate and make plots available to us, we can reach 40 million in new health centers, between these two years, 2019 and 2020. But I don't know why the spokesperson at Marea always spoke of 8 million, 8 million. No, no, no, no. We're talking about budgets. The need plan would be 17.3 million euros, distributed, as it said, between furniture and equipment, more than 8 million, in reforms almost 3 and in computer 6. As I say, especially most importantly, what this priority involves is service heads, who, as I say, will report through primary care management in the management of this area. It's a complicated process, it's a difficult process, but of course we think we should take note. We can bring here, like Mrs Prado, news from the press about demonstrations and strikes, and you can take whatever you want, from the autonomous community you want, all over Spain. The difference between Galicia and the Basque Country and the rest of the autonomous communities is that Galicia is taking action, Galicia believes in the collaboration of all its professionals and Galicia if it will make a new model. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u47	Thank you very much, Counselor. There's a special round of clarifications, with the Government's duplicity. On behalf of the BNG Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado Cores has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u48	I want to start by saying that I fear that the People's Party deputy confuses dialogue with monologue, because dialogue means speaking and listening, and what has been demonstrated by the People's Party and the Counsellor and the Council is that he speaks and does not listen to what the professionals and the people of Greece are telling him out there about the proposals of the People's Party. And that's not a dialogue, that's a monologue, that's a real monologue. [[Applause]] Because what has the adviser and the People's Party done in the face of the genuine unanimous demonstration against the health policies of the People's Party? First, deny the reality of the deterioration of health. So, discredit everyone who pointed out the problem — professionals, trade unions, collectives, patients, political organizations — and try to discredit them and say that nothing was a country of cage and that public health was the best. Are they still in that tone? We're the best, copy them out, they want to be like us, I mean, we live fantastically. And then, when the magnitude of the problem was impossible to hide, by the highest level of response and mobilization of both professionals and society, they had an occurrence. And the occurrence is that when you want something to go wrong, you create a commission or a working group. But no, the counsellor, as he wants to be the champion, created ten, created ten working groups, where an important part of the people and the collectives who went there for education were heard, and then gradually he went out abandoning, because they said: it's not time to listen; because what they said is: the diagnosis is done, but it's been done for years, we've already said what's the problem and it's time to act. They told him on the ground, sea and air, Mr. Counsellor: the diagnosis is done, we want no more diagnoses, we want him to act. And he went out and left and said: we don't want to come here to hear new diagnoses. And by the way, the framework statute says that the proposals that affect staff have to go through the sectoral table. And this proposal, this new model affects the staff, and you didn't do it through the sectoral table. A little lapse, I suppose. And by the way, also, Mr. Núñez Centeno, the continuity contract was passed at the sectoral table, but not by the majority unions, not by the IGC and not by the Commissions; I say so because you repeat it here continuously, playing the confusion, but not approved by the IGC or the Commissions. And by the way, a continuity contract that you've already offered is eighty-nine, and how many have you signed that continuity contract? At the moment, ten of those ten have already declined; i.e., there are nine people left; of the eighty-nine who offered nine of those people for being in a special situation of vulnerability and, in part, some for needing the contract in order to keep themselves, among other things, in the country. So that's the reality of accepting that continuity contract that you sell as a big acceptance and that's a lie, that you don't accept either the affected or the majority unions. That's the reality. With which, ten working groups, in part collectives chosen by finger; other groups were, by education, listening and being abandoned, because they said: this is not the solution, the diagnosis is made, we want facts, we want realities. The days pass, the months pass, and new meetings, new plantings, Counselor. The diagnosis is made, the demands too, and there's a need for them to be put in place. What is needed is a real correction, not corrections in the press headline, Counsellor; real corrections are needed and there is no need to solve certain issues with breach of the competences of non-optional professionals, which is an important part of the issues raised in this new plan. So you can't come here to say that you pick up professional proposals when professionals are telling you that the first question you want is the creation of the primary care agency with decision-making capacity. And you find that you put this plan in place and present it here and at the same time it presents the new decree of primary management areas where what are the competences of primary care management? Management of demand for health services, execution of established guidelines and projects — which others decide — coordination and supervision...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u49	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u50	I mean, he has no decision-making capacity. With which I finish, Mr. Counsellor, telling you a series of proposals that are being asked of you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u51	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u52	...the professionals — adopted, Mr President — which is the creation of the primary care agency on an equal footing with the hospital administrations, own budgeting, decision-making capacity without subordination, increase of staff, solution to the situations of the CAP, stable and dignified contracts for the precarious professions. It starts out there, and from there, probably all the people who are planting it and are abandoning it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u53	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u54	...your meetings are the same start to listen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Torrido Quintela has the floor by the Socialists' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u56	Thank you, President. Well, sometimes you have to explain something. I'll give you an opinion, Counselor. You're probably very pleased with your parliamentary ability not to explain anything in the first intervention and do everything in the second, ex aqueo with the PP spokesman, which, by the way, I didn't mention. Here the only thing that blocks people from this Parliament is the PP in the investigation committee. I didn't mention anything, you gave it to me for alluding, but we're delighted to have everyone talk here. [[Applause]] I mean, very skilled at this of the regatta, not to expose anything until the second, because there's less replica. [[Applause]] It's very sad to make an appearance. I mean, you thought you were coming here to make an appearance because you were going to approve something and you were going to be victorious. The other day he ran out of a meeting and now he couldn't explain much and just wants to leave us the second replica. The stream will be very skilful, but the failure at the end is huge. You seem to be Vinicius: I'm racing a lot, but in the end... and the parliamentary regatta is very good, but in the end, health doesn't work, and that's the question we're here on today. You gave data. Look, some of the data you gave us is a little out of hand. Look, the health barometer has just been published. We're down from general rating, we're down from primary care. [[Murmurs.]] Private preference increases, dangerously; 13% of citizens preferred private care two years ago, 18% last year; do you know what this year's Barometer says? 22%. Two years ago one out of seven, we're almost one out of four. The situation is extremely serious, Counselor. Of course, for you the model of success — which came here on a promotional day — are those rankings where they award Cameroon and Hong Kong; their model of health success is Cameroon, Counsellor; ours, no. Cameroon has nothing to do with that model of Alma-Ata, of course not, Cameroon and Hong-Kong. And you really appeal here with respect to other political forces to some countries, but Cameroon and Hong Kong do not set an example for us, because, if that's the model, it's bad. They come here to promise — no fantastic combination in which made more progress of the new model the spokesperson of the People's Party than the Council — 135 community family medicine squares for next year. It was proposed here. Do you know how many have been accredited? They proposed a 135 call. Do you know how many have believed? 110. It's just that you make a proposal that can't be made. Of course, so soon they want to blame the Ministry, but the Ministry says, look, we call everything we need, but they have to believe it. They have just promised to convene squares that have no legal possibility of summoning. But it doesn't matter; total, what else does it give? Counsellor, it's a question of organization, yes, of providing the skills of professionals, doctors and doctors and nurses. But it's not just a question of functions. Assigning more functions to the same personal that is already very saturated is a problem; functions yes, but personal too. I mean, flowers to the staff, everything: no, they're very good; flowers, everything. Now, besides flowers, chapter I, and not in precariousness, but really, that you spend more than four hundred million euros a year on paying for eventualities and precariousness. We're all aware that an investment in personnel in the first year and in the second, numerically, is deficient, numerically, but numerically, it's better in the long term; and, of course, for the quality of the system is infinitely better. And you have to make those investments. It will certainly count on the support of our group if they decide to make an investment in personnel that is necessary. But don't be a scarf, which is what I am. Contract model — which you finally came to talk about the contract model —. So let's say from the beginning, is this a starting point? Maybe, but you take it as a final point. That contract model is not what professionals demand; professionals demand a more stable model. If we want the Basque model, let's go to the Basque model, but to the whole Basque model, to that whole Basque model contract model, not just to one part. If it's so good, why not for hospital care, for example? Why not for those poor specialties of hospital care a similar model? That could be an idea. I'm sure you have some contraindications, some advantages and some disadvantages, but if that's the model, why not? Because, of course, as it doesn't require professionals to run everything, you don't have to do it. You have an absent planning, and with that lack of planning, for example, what can happen to this contract model, which there are two serious problems that can happen: one, that everyone wants -- because it would be a problem: we would have a lack of space to plan -- two, that nobody wants it, which is an obvious problem. Do you have any plans if everybody wants it or if no one wants it? No, no, no, no. Why? Because you don't plan; they respond, they react, but they react when the Council should be a planner before. You wanted a model, Counselor. Yes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u57	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u58	...it's legitimate; we don't. But you wanted a model and the model failed. It is legitimate that they want it, but failed; it is necessary to change. And you, who wanted another model, can't change to a different model.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u59	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u60	So, Counselor, they're changing, also in the direction of the Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u62	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I have not just understood what you came here today, because really little has explained what you're going to do. And you moved here a series of considerations that I sometimes think you should listen to yourself in what you're saying. Because you have the courage to come here and say that the equipment is important, when the staff of the continuing attention points has been around for a year and a half, asking you to deploy balanced, equal teams of professionals in all the centers, and you have rejected that measure. We've had three months of indefinite strike, Mr. Almuña. It's an insult -- I said it before -- because you come here after you have despised professionals. It's not contempt. Of course, this is a role, it's a role, because there's no budget here, Mr. Almuña, and because you don't take professional considerations. [[Mrs. Solla Fernández shows a document.]] Why do you think they're all against it? Where's Chapter I? Where's the budget to increase staff? Are they really going to solve the primary care situation with printers and scanners? Yeah, yeah, no, no, move your head. Measure 6, short-term measures — Mr Almuña, you put them here — renew printing equipment and provide health centres with new information scanning equipment. Well, with this we can go home now because primary care is all solved. And you said -- I asked here -- that this budget, that 8 million euros -- because it's 17 in two annuities, 8 and something, okay! -- most of it goes to computer equipment. What are we talking about, Mr. Almuinho? We have a structural shortage of primary care personnel that did not fall from heaven, sir, who fell from the cuttings of ten years, ten years short!, more than a thousand eliminated squares! What did we come here for? Do you think that's going to work out because you put an ad in a newspaper so 10 people can sign a contract? Man, please, a little respect! Clearly, more debate is needed and more profound and long-term measures are needed. People are against it because there's no increase in staff here, there's no real improvement, and it doesn't matter what role you're going to play, I don't know what to do now, I don't know what to do; the staff is the same thing and it's up here, up here, and you can't, you can't anymore! The nursing staff can no longer carry out all the tasks they have to do, and the medical staff can do the same. And we're in centers -- I told you before, he's tired of listening to the debates -- with ten days waiting. What are we playing at? How are you going to solve that problem that's your responsibility? It's not easy, of course it's not easy, because ten years of cuts later require a lot of measures to improve the situation. And the replenishment rate doesn't fall from the sky, the replacement rate applies to governments because they decide to apply that replenishment rate and decide where they're going to cut. And keeping public spending is an euphemism when you cut yourself off, which has caused health care to deteriorate so much during all these years. Look, this doesn't work out by putting computers in the houses. Innovations have to be at the service of the staff; if there are no health personnel, it's not worth putting any computer equipment. We need staff to care for community, to care for homes, to pay attention to consultations, to care for emergencies... without that central element, key, that doesn't come to the plan, it won't be solved. Because here's the only thing you're talking about is to make cross-substitutions, i.e., that staff cover the absences of the rest of the staff. And they're talking about four more things, but there's no plan to increase the primary care staff board, there's no greater budget. And you said here that the Primary Care Directorate is better, because it used to compete. Please don't take us for ignorant! The fact that there are two branches is not worse or makes them work worse, and to make sure they work better and to interconnect is an obligation of your advice. That there is an agency in Primary Care with resources and with capacity all it does is improve the situation of primary care; tell us if this Primary Care Directorate is going to have budget to function, ability to decide, capacity to resolve... He doesn't put people to manage the problems that come on the other side. We want people deciding, organizing and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u63	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u64	...planning; we want budget at the disposal of those people, their responsibilities. I'm done. We can't take this as a bad joke, but... i mean, it's a bad joke, mr. In the face of the mobilizations, you wanted to demobilize making meetings and now bring us this paper here without any budget. Resolve, it's your responsibility.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u65	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. Mr Núñez Centeno has the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u66	Thank you, President. Counsellor, you can ask to see if there is luck in this lottery of gifts from social Fridays and we are touched by some health measures for Galicia, because it seems that on social Fridays Galicia does not exist. [[Applause]] Mrs. Prado, tell you about monologues, I... what do you want me to tell you? You have a monologue that's worth almost all the interventions you do in this parliament. Well, you'll see, but what about the counsellor's monologues... I don't know. I don't know what they meant, Counselor, what had you come here with the document and read the hundred and seventy-five measures? It's a public document and it's published; then, I think it must make a balance of the situation and then highlight what you think should be highlighted. And I was supposed to talk today about the health barometer, how wouldn't you talk about the health barometer, being Mr. Torrado here? Indeed, it turns out that Galicia loses six hundredths, but it remains the third best historical assessment after 2017 and 2012. And the average of Spain loses eleven hundredths. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Funny. That almost always forgets us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u67	Mr. Torado, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u68	Only 3.9 percent says the system is so bad that it needs to be redone, which is less than every year of the Bipartite and the average of all communities. And, referring to primary care: good or very good care, 88.1 percent; use of the public emergency service in primary care, 43.4 percent, above the national average; evaluation of primary care in Galicia, 7.47; national, 7.31. The delay in primary appointments — and this is a curious detail — was met in Galicia on the same day or the following day at sixty-seven percent. Here it seems also to forget that if you call a health center or ask for an appointment from ten and a half, that appointment is the next day, it's not, theoretically, on the same day in the morning. Do you know what the average of the different autonomous communities is for the same day or the next day? Galicia, one sixty-seven percent; the rest, 47.5 percent. Curiosity: in the Basque Country, the happy Arcadia of Spanish health, 58.5 percent, almost ten points below Galicia. Of the passing of a day, 82.1 percent were attended in two or three days, which seems to make certain things we hear here fallacy. We are the least expected in primary care consultation rooms; the liberals are the ones who, among the people attended, make fewer mistakes; we are above the average in the time spent on each patient in primary care; the qualification of care as bad or very bad in primary care does not reach two percent, and — as it is done — 1.8 percent of the citizens say that they did not take a drug for economic issues, compared to three percent of the average of the autonomous communities. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the situation of primary care in Galicia in the health barometer. It's a situation, of course, that is improved and that is aggravated by the shortage of professionals and chronicity, but it has little to do with the version we're hearing here constantly. I'm surprised Galicia had just dropped six hundredths after what we heard here and read in the press. I would understand that Galicia would have to go down at least two points, if the situation is what it is, worse than in Venezuela; we would have to go down at least two points. But no. You have to come a counselor -- you have quoted him right now, Mr. Counsellor -- Mr.Darpón of the Basque Country, say what he says about Galicia, which is curious. He values it and says Galicia is the autonomous community in which the health system has evolved in the last decade. The qualitative leap this community has made is very important, and the Greeks must feel proud of the health system they have. It highlights the deep knowledge that President Feijóo has of the health system through his state passage, and says Galicia and the Basque Country are taking concrete steps for a common diagnosis to realize the generational relief that will occur in primary physicians and perfect their functions so that they have more time of clinical attention, improving the benefits and support of nursing staff in their work together with doctors. It also highlights the Plan for the Humanization of Greece. And it ends by saying that Spain has a great health service, which is very efficient and supported by health professionals and a very well-founded programming carried out by each autonomous community. It is no coincidence that Spain is the country with the greatest life expectancy in the world. You see, ladies and gentlemen, Counsellor, you have to come from outside to assess the Greek health system, constantly being questioned by people who just want to use in a way...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u69	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u70	...party the problems you have, despite the magnificent quality of it. We encourage you, Counsellor, to continue to work as in recent years and to advance the development of definitive measures for primary care that is consistent with professional groups to achieve primary quality, efficient, sustainable and appropriate attention to the needs of demography and chronicity of the times we live. For my part, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u71	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Close the courthouse, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is that when we say that the Greek health system is the best, of course we say it because we have, of course, sufficient criteria to say it, but the most important thing is that the citizens of Galicia say it, and, as we have said throughout this morning, primary care is highly valued by all citizens of Galicia. And it's also said by the opposition that this is a statement of intent, a paperhead. Look, a statement of intent is that one of the requests we were told they needed to improve relationships with the hospital, shorter times between primary and hospital. For at a time when this model is not yet closed and it can have incorporations, as we say, today is news because in a health area they're going to have from now on new direct diagnostic tests of primary care, specifically colonoscopy. Requested and done before closing the document. There was also a request for an independent need plan for primary care for an important amount. It triples that 17.3%, it triples. Service bosses prioritized. And here we are, here we already have priorities in the health areas, what they need in each of the health centers in our community. [[Mr Vázquez Almuña shows you a document to the members of the House.]] It's ready; request and done. Fixed contracts: we were asked for more stable contracts, and we created the continuity contract in Galicia, which can be accepted or not accepted because we did not delete the previous form of contract; each one can choose what he needs. But I feel responsible, of course, for saying that this contract is a good contract, and that it was used by most of our optionals. It's a request, but there's freedom to make everyone think it's convenient. Three years ago, the extension of retirement age was requested; many professionals asked for it that way. It has been granted, and between forty and fifty percent of professionals continue to do their work because they think it's necessary work. Of course, it's a very important job for us, and we wanted them to be able to continue with us, and there they are. We were asked to have a primary care address that would exclusively lead to primary care, and be created in the new structure of Sergas. But besides, we also create an equivalent relationship structure in the non-existent central services, which will also be a Primary Care Sub-Direction so that there is a link, a connection between the head of service, the Primary Care Directorate and the Sub-Direction, within the General Directorate of Health Care, within the board. We were asked to have more OPEs, and just advertised, just announced the largest OPEs in primary care since 2008. We were asked for more MIR training squares, and the MIR training squares are increased. Our goal, Mr. Torrado, is to reach a hundred and twenty-five squares. We can't at the moment, but we're going to go to the limit, because the ministry hasn't done its job, it hasn't done its job! He was dedicated to making announcements of topics that would work, but he didn't do what he had to do, which was to believe the teaching units needed for autonomous communities to finance and increase the training of specialists. [[Applause]] And we were also asked, by many professionals, to have an own budget for primary care, and there will be. There will already be, as in Chapter I and Chapter II -- by the way, with more money than we had, growing from the year 2008, and in the last year, from 2018 to 2019, rising by 13 million more -- a chapter VI and a chapter VII that was not independent, and at this moment it will be done. And that's where the 17.3 million needs plan comes out, which will incorporate the priorities that mark our service heads. And we'll keep working. And look, these are done: petitions and made in two months, without closing — as I say — still that definitive document, which is accepting most of the professionals and the collectives, and in the coming days they can see it in many media. And, as I say, the plant matters to me within my personal life; within my professional life it is my responsibility, and I will endure the plants that need to reach agreements because I believe in this project. I think changes need to be made, changes need to be made and, of course, dialogue is needed. [[Applause]] And dialogue is for the improvements the health system needs, to improve the quality of service for our citizens. I'm not going to argue with the interlocutors, I'm discussing the basic measures that we need to take in order to end up doing a good health system. So we're going to keep up with the CAP professionals; we've been negotiating for many months now, we're about to reach agreements, if there's, of course, a minimum road left between the eleven points that they present to us and the nine that are accepted. There's very little left, you can come to an agreement. If we are all willing — hence, I say that from the advice that we have, we will continue to try to improve that service, which, by the way, is also very well valued, does a magnificent job the professionals of the CAP, a high resolution, and we want to continue to count on them in the best situation. Therefore, since this Parliament I would like to be able to count on initiatives that could also come from the members of this parliament, because, as I say, the model, the new primary care model is not closed and all the positive initiatives that we can incorporate into them. Thank you very much and, as I say, we will continue to work to further improve the public health system in Galicia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u73	Thank you, Counselor. Change in agenda development
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u74	We moved on to the third point of the agenda without finishing the show. The groups have already been commented on the different changes that we will have along this whole. G.P. motion. of In Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the processing of information on equality
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u75	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled. [[(G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Maria Luisa Pierres López, through her spokesperson and in the light of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this motion.Amendment of amendment to point 2.The text of the resolution of point 2 of the motion should be replaced by the following:"2. To encourage the fulfilment of the Declaration of Compostela and Code of Conduct of the Galician Journalism, with particular impetus to the clause of conscience and professional secrecy, within the framework of the laws, as it collects the present Constitution, as well as the necessary establishment of drafting statutes in the media, of particular urgency of implementation in the CRTVG."Amendment of amendment to point 3. The text of the resolution of point 3 of the motion should be replaced by the following: "3. Support and momentum of the "Galgas Journalists" Association and its "feminist surveillance" of the media's Machist or Sexist contents or publications."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u76	To formulate the motion, Mrs. Quinteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u77	Thank you, President. I want to start by transferring all our support and encouragement to the families and friends of the three women killed in the last few days. The situation continues to be very dramatic and it is unbearable, because every year thousands of women are attacked in the streets, in the houses, in the leisure, in their own work... so today — and also yesterday — women will again concentrate on many villages and in all the cities of the country in repulsing male violence. As we have noted in the interpellation, we believe that the media can play a key role in the fight against the violence of the Machist because they build reality. And that's why we think they can help us move forward towards a more feminist society, but they can also perpetuate a masquerading society. Gender roles and stereotypes are often present in the media, and we believe that measures must be taken to prevent this from happening. The motion we bring today seeks to get us out of the paralysis that we understand is being given right now. We think there's obviously a problem. The lack of a gender perspective in the media is evidence. And we believe that in addition to this historic moment, where March 8 again highlights the strength of women, the strength of feminism, administrations and the media themselves have to hear this unanimous cry that was expressed in the streets. And exactly the demands we bring with this motion are not only part of our parliamentary group. In fact, one of the demands expressed in the past feminist strike was the need to have media with a gender perspective and equal media. And journalists have stopped in a large majority; seventy-six percent of media workers and communication offices have backed this strike. And we believe that this data shows that there is a very broad consensus outside this parliament that there is a need to take different measures that are being taken to this day, because it is obvious that they are not being effective. I've already mentioned a lot of examples in the interrogation. We're fed up that women's bodies are being used as advertising claims, that murders continue to be treated on too many occasions as events or that many issues are constantly trivialized that have to do with equality. We believe that it can't be that today we have to continue reading news with morbid, completely absurd details, that they bring absolutely nothing more than often guilting the victim and excusing the murderers themselves. He's still talking about passionate crimes. He's still talking about domestic violence. I'm not going to reproduce, but I think the example of "He killed her because he wanted her" is the most horrible example, but it's happening in today's headlines like this, and it doesn't happen in isolated cases. We have to read situations like this every week. And maybe one of the problems of these situations is that where you make decisions about content, the spaces of power, you're still not equally represented men and women. In fact, men occupy seventy-five percent of the posts in the board of directors of the major information companies. Well, if we're not the women there, obviously the information and the processing of the information will have a clearly androcentric affair. We believe it's important that women also take steps and can access these posts with the equality that men do. We think we're in a very urgent situation. The machismo, far from braking, is rearming in recent times. And we believe that administrations have to take action. We think we've been seeing each other for a long time. In his own interpellation, the counselor's answer seemed totally insufficient. As always, not a minimum of self-criticism, speaking of a legislation that is fulfilled when we know that this is a lie. And it wouldn't be acceptable if you had talked about any other matter. Because they put a lot of effort into it, and in fact, a lot of times they do that, in which legislation needs to be fulfilled and they attack the opposition for not fulfilling it, but on this subject it seems that it's never a priority. It's been a long time since we took this question as a second, not as a priority. And I'm saying this because it's been twelve years since the adoption of a very advanced legislation on equality, but today it's not a single effective measure for the situation to change. Twelve years in which it was collected in a legislation that there would be no sexist content, that there would not be an inappropriate treatment of the news of male violence. And today — as I say — are a lot of the examples we have to read that this is not being fulfilled. And the Junta, far from saying that this is happening, denies the reality, that anyone who opens the papers any day of the week can show. And the problem is not that there is only one non-compliant legislation, that there is a deontological code and in 2004 the Compostela Declaration, which, as I said the other day, was a very important fact. There is also a newspaper editor's manual made by the Galician Board itself, but there is no kind of measure to check that this is being applied. They are simply there, papers hanging on a web page, which are left on wet paper because no effort is made to check whether or not the media is complying with all this legislation and these codes. That's why we think we need to develop the law, because it's true that the law is very advanced and stipulates that there can be no sexist treatment in the media, but maybe there is a need for broader regulation and clear indicators. It is not for us that the councillor to say that the law is respected, that as we are going to question that, what we need are indicators that it is sexist content to be able to really assess whether or not it is being complied with, that in our opinion, and not only in our opinion, but in the opinion of many workers in the sector, it is not being complied with because — as I say — it is obvious. The last day I only put on a couple of headlines, but anyone can find hundreds of sexist content anywhere in the country, unfortunately. And one of the fundamental problems is that there is no adequate training. We often talk about the need for equal training in all educational curricula, from school to university, and also on this subject. We believe that in the faculties we have to implement this training cross-sectionally but also the posteriori. And administration has a fundamental role. We believe that we need a public training plan. Clearly, it is necessary. Well, the administration has to allocate resources to advance this specific training in gender for professionals, whether from public or private media. On the other hand, we believe that a Greek observatory would be positive in order to be able to assess all these issues. And an observatory that is plural and heterogeneous, not an observatory that stands there on wet paper, where only the Union of Galicia is represented. That's why I'll talk later about the Socialist Party's amendment, which we think we can get into a transaction. The collective of Journalists Galegas is being a fundamental example in this issue, it is proposing concrete means for the creation of this observatory and concrete measures of how to carry forward the feminist surveillance of the media, and we believe that we can reach an agreement on this issue. And finally, we also say that we believe it is necessary — as I said — to improve training. I get this point because it's often said that there's already training, but when we ask the Galician board about concrete plans, concrete resources, concrete budgets, we haven't got a single answer. We got a recital that is the Compostela Declaration, that says the deontological code and that says the legislation. Well, we know that, and it's all right, but it's no use if, as I say, we don't make an effort for people to know them, really. I think we should make an effort to disseminate the Compostela Declaration and also to disseminate the own deontological code so that all the professionals in the communication know these issues. We bring concrete proposals, commitments that go far beyond words, because of the words women are tired, of the promises women are fed up. Stop saying Galicia has an advanced legislation. It's true: we have advanced legislation, but they put all those efforts into spreading that advanced legislation in order to enforce it. Clearly, to achieve a fairer society, a more feminist, more egalitarian society, we need a journalism with a feminist perspective. We cannot continue to normalize macho treatment in the media, information. We're fed up, because there are thousands of data that show that the role of women in the media and the role of men continues to be very discriminatory.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u78	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u79	This Parliament believes that it has to listen to the demand of all the women who mobilized on March 8 and who have been mobilising for many years, which must happen — as I said — from words to facts. The situation is enough, for, as the principle says, it is totally unsustainable and unbearable. Well, today we have and they have a good chance to take some action and some concrete steps. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u81	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. And let me also start by showing my firmest rejection of the murder of Maria José Aboy in Valga and transferring the grip of the entire Socialist Group to his children and his family and close relatives, as well as to lament the other victims who have been killed these days, especially the neighbor of Sovereign, to whom we also send all our affection. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I believe that all parliamentary groups, and of course those who govern each case, have to put all the emphasis on preventing, detecting and sensitizing precisely to prevent deaths from being the result of violence which, as you can see, does not cease. And today we are talking about one of these factors, such as the work of the media, the use of language, the journalistic approaches in the transmission of the news. We are talking about the limits of the laws and the necessary ethical and deontological commitment of the media professionals. And I think that here is one of the focus of the debate, that the German Law of equality of 2007 talks about ensuring or ensuring that the compliments that are not given in practice. And that's the big underlying problem: either we are committed to a deeper reform of the law and its contents, even considering serious sanctions, or we are making a conscious contribution to our commitment to equality with all social agents. A question and debate very similar to that of the role of the media in the fight against gender-based stereotyped violence is what happens in fact also with education, always marked as the basis from which situations arising from gender-based abuse can be faced. Well it's true that neither in one case nor in the other one can force anyone to make use of good practices, of equal education or of the good use of ethics and journalistic deontology, but if you can watch the bad steps to get corrections and encourage from good examples and subsidies, for example, the use of non-sexist or disturbing languages of the woman's image. So, from our group, being in favour of the spirit and sharing the bottom of this motion, we believe it is important to promote that it is the journalistic gramme itself that sees and assumes its involvement on this subject, and to help them with the tools needed so that they can implement from their own organisms the pacts and deontological codes that they already tell and, in any case, strengthen them if needed. All the media and citizenship must therefore face a media literacy from a gender perspective. Starting with our vice president, who in the debate of the inquiry that gave rise to this motion precisely surprised us with his assessment of the headline of "Carolina Marín, the girl who admires Christmas." A headline in which, according to Mr. Rueda, he did not see a macho use of language, for he does not consider it strange that Carolina Marín could admire a sportsman known as Christmas. He said that, in any case, it is open to subjective appreciations of each individual, what Mr. Rueda has never warned at any time is that we are talking not about a comment within a broader interview, but about a press headline that seeks to end and eventually synthesize a message. And when we read that message, do we know that Carolina Marin has won a medal? No, all we know is she's a woman who admires a man sportsman. And that's what Mr. Rueda understood perfectly, but he dared not understand. [[Applause]] That a political leader on what the area of equality depends on obviously obliging the perverse use of language to diminish importance to a woman's achievements is as serious as the headline's own writing. A bad headline or a wrong interpretation of macho violence is one more seed so that the numbers of those killed and affected will not be reduced. It is precisely the critical consumption of the press that will enable us to understand and face violence from solid and true arguments, and to question the role of the media that do not represent it properly. From our group we believe that the media must be invited to participate in their share of social responsibility. And that is achieved from the impulse and support to them with policies of prevention, training and awareness-raising and asking for their involvement. Two years ago, after March 8th, no media had as its headline the concentrations of the feminist movement today. It's a reality thanks precisely to the involvement of the whole society. And that's why we think it's necessary that the media be accompanied from the administration on their way to total involvement with equality and the fight against gender violence, and not so much as intervening in their freedom to mark their course, but allowing them to design their own ethical deontological model, and always of course within their legality. As Ana Pardo de Vera says, director of the Public Journal.es: "Journalism is feminist or not, because one can't object to about 50 percent of the population or its conditional reality in favor of a more egalitarian society." In that sense, our amendments which we have tabled and which, in any case, seek to promote good practices, but preserving — I insist — the autonomy that we believe should always have the media. For our part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u83	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. We're adding ourselves to the samples of rejection of the feminicides of Valga and the neighbor of Sober that took place these days. But I also say one thing: we can't normalize or naturalize everything that's happening. And BNG and I are also asking for anger, indignation and social mobilization! Social mobilization because we are falling into the most absolute indolence as a society, we are normalizing and naturalizing the permanent dripping of macho murders. [[Applause]] And I think it's the worst, and that's also a lot to see about the motion we're debating: the most absolute nature and normality we're falling into, and the most painful indolence we're falling into as a society with that drop of macho murders. I brought an example to see, above all, how years go by, and things change -- it's true, things change -- but they don't do everything they should, and in many respects they still do the same. In April 1991 a masculine murder in Segovia took place — not to be remembered. She was called Elisa Cordincillo Navarro, she was 29 years old, and she was murdered for what her partner had been. He was 26 years old and was called Fruits Bernardos Arevalo. At that point, the Spanish press treated him like a parricide. At that time, it wasn't even talking about macho violence, and feminicides, of course, much less. And in the chronicle of the newspaper El País, in the chronicle of this machist murder, which — I insist — is treated like a supposed parricide, despite not being of his father's, said: "On Thursday night the alleged parricide, which according to Elisa's parents was fond of the game, held a strong discussion with his wife, and at a time of warming the neck caught her even without intending to suffocate her, but the woman fell away on the ground." We're going down, of course, alone. That chronicle of the newspaper El País was entitled "The detainee for the cabinet crime says he took his wife from the neck without intent to kill her." Now I want them to travel a little bit in time and remember another name, which was Silvina de Oliveira. Silvina de Oliveira was one of the women murdered in our country, in the city of Vigo, in 2015. Do you remember what the press titled, and in particular La Voz de Galicia, this machist murder in all the information? "The crime of Vigo's closet." "The cabinet killer confessed his crime Friday and no one believed him." Practically two decades later, the focus and the headline and the information treatment of this macho murder, which was the second in addition to a month in the city of Vigo — I insist in 2015, is practically the same. If we go to the chronicity of that event, we find again something that is also very present in the journalistic approach and in the informational treatment of male violence. "The police say you found a farewell note. And the police explain the following: he recognized that he had killed the bride with blows, perhaps his hand was gone when he was drunk." Police, 2015, Vigo. This is to make us a little -- I think -- a picture or a picture more tailored to the reality that we've lived for more than ten years after that Act of prevention and comprehensive treatment of macho violence had been passed, which is the example or that reflects the reality in which we live, especially in what it has to do with communication in a broad sense, in an integral sense. We don't think this goes unique and exclusively from the media in a more classic sense, or from the information processing, but it has a lot to do with the construction, with the image we reproduce from reality from a broad perspective, which has to do with advertising, which has to do with television series, which has to do with cinema and also with other cultural expressions. For us, for the BNG, it is an example of the lack of political impulse, of the lack of political will that the People's Party has had in Galicia for ten years. They live in the most absolute self-comprehensiveness and hypocrisy — as we have seen from the BNG — of putting on a lila bond one day a year, which does not harm, but the three hundred sixty-four others remain with their arms crossed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u84	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u85	And I'm going to put just three examples — and I'm finished — to the thread of the proposals that include In Marea, and that we're going to support this motion: The first is that the Compostela Declaration is not being fulfilled. There's a lack of training. All we have to do is go to the study plans of both Advertising and Journalism or Audiovisual Communication to see that the gender perspective is not incorporated in the grades. But there is also a lack of commitment and corporate responsibility from the companies themselves, and they must be appealed to from public institutions. Incorporating feminicides into the event pages is a business decision, not depending on who writes the information, but on who runs the media. The Male Violence Observatory, since 2007, is collected in our legislation. In 2012 this non-sexist advertising commission was created, which could cover much more than advertising and be observed — as it is proposed — the media as a whole, so that we can see that it is not made up of people who have specific training in gender and communication. The report on sexism, advertising and media is from 2008. There was Mrs. Carmen Adán and the BNG in the Galician Union, and there was not a single report again. It is not up to us, but we do not agree with the amendment tabled by the Socialist Party. Professional entities cannot fulfil the responsibility of governments. The work of the Galician Journalists is good, it's fundamental and it's essential, but the Union has to do with Galician Union. And the last one — and this is over — is the fulfilment of the legislation for non-publication of macho content. There is an agreement in this chamber — it is unanimous — of the year 2012 to withdraw what is known as contact announcements from the printed media in our country. I invite them to take a look at the press.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u87	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I, like my companions, want to begin by showing all solidarity with the families of the murdered women victims of gender violence. Those news that journalists never wanted to give, but that while they are unfortunately continuing to produce, we have to give them to know, because it is necessary to visualize horror and it is also necessary to mobilize consciences for this tear to end; this tear that only comes to prove is the failure of society as a whole. Yes, being extremely scrupulous about the victims, language, images, details. All that, in general, I'm convinced that the journalists are doing very badly, and there's nothing else to see. More and more journalists are involved in the processing of information on gender-based violence and also the media are increasingly offering campaigns against gender-based violence. Feminism, gender discourse, women's rights to equality are present daily in the newspaper. Journalists have never talked so much and so responsibly about the rights, demands and contributions that women make to society. It's true that we keep finding headlines, expressions or even inappropriate information, but they're exceptions, and I think we can't take them as a rule. Journalists do a great job for equality and against gender-based violence. They're our allies. And as a journalist, and also as a politician, I don't want any government to exercise control over the press. I don't want it and the People's Party doesn't want it either. And what you bring here today in this initiative, with euphemisms — yes, it is to ask for interventionism and control over the media once again, and it is no longer the first, it is repetitive. Look: in view of this control of this interventionism, we propose self-regulation and training, which is the same as the State Covenant on Gender Violence. That pact which was, by the way, adopted with the sole abstention of Podemos-En Marea. That group, by the way, led by a certain Paul Churches, who told a journalist -- do you remember?—: "I'd whip her until she bled." That's right. He said: principles that are contained in the state pact, such as self-regulation and training, which is also what the Network of Professional Journalism Colleges asks for, which is also what the group of Galician Journalists, or the Compostela Declaration itself, or the 2007 Law, all that you refer to. [[Murmurs.]] What the sector demands is self-regulation and training in order to achieve that self-regulation. Everyone, all but you ask for it. What's wrong with them? Why aren't they in touch with what society demands? Together has been working for years to promote training and that self-regulation can be achieved. Every day that repeats every year, to which, by the way, Members are invited and we should come more often. Because when we get up here and say that there are no measures for equality and that the Government of the United States does nothing against gender-based violence, something very serious is being done, because it's trying to make women who are not helped, who have no means to help them, and it can also make the batterers see that what they do is going to be challenged. Therefore, this training is fundamental, of course it is. The training that all collectives have, too, has to have, the journalists, who, as I said, are giving themselves and being budgeted even if we have to keep working on it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u88	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u89	Besides, you're talking about the observatory here too. The observatory exists cross-sectionally, which is how all experts say that gender-based violence must be treated in an absolutely cross-sectional manner. The Galego Observatory of Gender Violence, the Advertising Advisory Commission or the Galego Council of Women are bodies of consultation, study and collaboration on these matters. So, Junta's acting, she's working with the media so they can get to that self-regulation, which is what the media are asking for. And, finally, what we're seeing here is that what you bring is an initiative that is surpassed by the measures that already exist, which is in contradiction with what journalists themselves ask for, and in addition to the laws that you refer to. By the way — as has been said here too — both the Joint and the Professional Schools have self-regulation codes and codes that the Joint itself will re-edit, in which it is included in the current and subsequent Declaration...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u90	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u91	...of Compostela, to which you refer. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u92	Thank you, Mrs Arias. Now we greet students and sixth graders from the Crusciero de Canido centre in Ferrol, as well as the teachers who accompany them. Welcome to Parliament! And now you have the floor for Mrs. Quinteiro's motion's author group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u93	Well, we're not surprised at his intervention, but the truth is he was expecting a minimum of composure, because what he said here is insulting, is that we have no words. They've been developing laws against women for many years. They've been 12 years without enforcing a law that defends women. They've been cutting budgets for many years. You help normalize Machist violence with statements like those you made today in this gallery. Yes, and I repeat: they normalize violence. And we have to say that it is very hypocritical to concentrate on the doors of this parliament yesterday, which is very hypocritical to come here for a minute of silence and then vote against measures like this. It's hypocrisy and cynicism, very cynical, very cynical! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] With extreme violence, with daily headlines. Open a newspaper, because they say they're the least headlines, open a newspaper, read how many women's murders are placed on the event pages. Read the sports news, see what percentage of women journalists present the media, how old they are, and how old they are the men who accompany them. Oh, my God! It's just as you can say there's more feminism in the media, more measures for equality in the media. It's just that it was missing, when 100,000 women in a town of 300 thousand people go out into the streets, only we didn't have to occupy any headline, it was only missing when a third of the population was mobilising in the streets of the country!, when thousands of women strike! And they vote against this motion, and they do not vote against the En Marea Parliamentary Group; as much as they say otherwise, they vote against the German journalists. Read your manifesto. Read the claims that the German journalists had on the day of the feminist strike, which we asked for in this motion. The same, because we made the motion listening to the collectives, not because we consider ourselves smarter than anyone else, listening to the professionals, who are marking the way and who are saying what the administration should do. And they lie! I'm not going to let you say we're asking for intervention. He lied! Read the motion literally. How can she be such a liar? We call for an observatory to be set up, to be told by the Galagas Journalists. We asked that the legislation be complied with. All right, maybe what they're saying today is they're against the Greek law of 2007. Because how can you say that it is asking for interventionism when all we ask is that we comply with legislation and that we create indicators to see whether or not we are complying with legislation? What interventionism is that? That a public employment plan is created from the Galician Union to train the public media professionals, what interventionism is this? Tell me which of the points of our motion you see interventionism in the media, tell me which! It's just that there's not, it's a lie, it's that you've used some arguments that you always use to vote against a motion that the only thing you're looking for is what you're claiming — as I say — to the journalists who are mobilizing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u94	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u95	Those who left on March 8 and have long demanded that another situation be needed. And we say again, they're cynical! And on our side we won't have them, because a lot of them appeal to equality and then when it comes to March 8 they keep voting against motions like this, which are quite simple motions, which they don't aspire to either... because we could ask for much more. We seek a motion of consensus, which can generate consensus. And not even the smallest questions, as if they respect legislation. No, it's just that you with your statement are saying they don't want the law of 2007, because those are the points of the motion. To what extent do they not want the law of 2007 to be complied with? To what extent are you going to follow another twelve years with a law in a drawer that doesn't serve anything at all?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u96	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u97	Because we want that advanced legislation, but we want that legislation to be fulfilled, it's the least.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u98	About the PSOE amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u99	On the amendment, I hope to come to a transaction with the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u100	In the face of a transaction. Thank you. [[Mrs. Arias Rodríguez asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs Arias, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u101	In accordance with Article 76 and for the group's honour, I ask Mrs Quinteiro to withdraw her words on the fact that since the People's Group we have normalized gender-based violence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u102	Thank you. [[Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo asks for the floor.]] Mrs. Quinteiro?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u103	I reaffirm, because voting against measures such as this helps to normalize masculine violence. I'm reaffirming! [[Applause]] Yes, because we're not worth the cynicism they've been having all this time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u104	Quiet. It's an unfortunate expression, because I don't think anyone in this room is in favor of normalizing macho violence. Nobody! [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please, we're going to have a normal debate. No one in this room... this is an unfortunate expression. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Unlucky expression! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And I ask you, please, to use expressions like this in a serious debate that you don't... No, quiet, I'm talking. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please! I'm talking! [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] I think this has to have some common sense. Well, please. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Please, we're going to have a normal debate. [[Murmurs.]] Let's go to the next one. It's pending... [[Murmurs.]] Silence! [[Protests.]] Please, shut up. [[Protests.]] No, no, no, no. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira and Mrs. Santos Queiruga pronounce words that are not perceived.]] No, please. Mr. Tellado and Mrs. Santos, silence! A bit of a level, that we have an audience that's starting. Let's give him a little example. Let's see if we all cooperate. Next motion. G.P. motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Maria Luisa Pierres López, on the improvements that must implement and promote the Galician Union in relation to the Network of Information Centres to Women
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u105	This motion was tabled an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group. [[(G. P. Popular de Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Paula Prado del Río, through her spokesperson and in the light of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, presented the following amendment to this motion before the Bureau.Amendment of amendment.The text of the motion should be replaced by the following:"The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Assembly to implement and promote the following improvements in the Galician CIM Network and to ensure full and quality service for all women in Greece, regardless of their location on the territory, improving accessibility to services:1. Consolidation of the integrated CIM network throughout the territory, especially in the rural region of Galicia, by encouraging in collaboration with the various municipalities the opening of more centres, independent or intercommunal, and allowing to cover the whole of the territory of Greece on the horizon of 2020.2. Promoting institutional and inter-IM cooperation, as well as greater inter-autonomous cooperation, with a view to exchanging experiences and creating protocols to coordinate and optimize actions in the field of gender-based violence.3. Improving the functioning of the CIM Management platform, and reviewing and studying improvements in the data implementation system for the justification of CIM actions, to ensure confidentiality in the care of users.4. Extending the Work Insertion Programme for Women Victims of Gender Violence initiated in 2016 through non-profit social initiative entities, this year 2019 to local entities, as well as business fabric.5. To continue to support the Autonomous Network of Women's Information Centres, through appropriate economic and technical resources:—To encourage local entities to incorporate professional profiles in addition to those set out in Article 10 of Decree 130/2016 of 15 September, so as to establish the requirements and procedures for the recognition and accreditation of information centres to the woman of ownership of local entities in Galicia.—Enhancing of hospitality, economic and social resources, allowing to break up with personal situations of violence in women of high vulnerability.6. To implement since next year 2020, the presentation during the month of January, of the programme and annual schedule of training for ICD professionals and professionals, taking into account the realities of the collectives attended at these centres (LGTBI, immigrants, women and minor victims of gender violence...) and their problems (traumas, emotional dependence, attachment, addictions and trauma) as well as other trainings suggested in reports of the annual memory of ICDs throughout Galicia.")]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u106	To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u107	Yes, thank you, President. Welcome to this camera. In the interpellation of the full past we talked about the importance of strengthening and targeting the presence of the Information Centre Network to women throughout the Greek territory and of doing so from the quality of services so that equal attention can be ensured to all women, without the territory being a conditioner to guarantee access to the same services for all Welsh people. And in order to meet that objective, it is necessary to encourage the extension of the network to all the municipalities of Galicia, or where there is no additional municipal service, or whether it exists, but it cannot benefit from being part of that structure as the CISG should be. Today's data tells us that there are 80 and two CISGs that serve the scope of one hundred and eighty-three municipalities throughout Galicia. This places us in that there are one hundred and thirty municipalities that remain without one centre of this type; that is, close to forty-two percent of the territory of Galicia lacks today the service of a CISG. It is therefore only possible to ask for the proper encouragement of all those municipalities and possible municipalities that could be fed by a CIS, but also to request that the network exploit all the resources of which it could enjoy precisely by using a model that can be replicated throughout Galicia. If we meet all the demands that many of the professionals of these centers, almost every woman, have communicated to us in their annual reports, we'll see that improved communication and relationship between centers is one of the main issues that name as possible improvement. And it makes sense because this would allow us to exchange experiences and implement in each of the councils and information centres to women the successful projects developed by some of these entities, as well as to overcome the isolation of many of them. It would be necessary to create protocols aimed at coordinating and optimizing actions in the field of gender-based violence, with interdisciplinary meetings between all the professionals of the CIS Centre Network, as well as with all the entities dedicated to working on the issue of equal opportunities for women and men. Within this same issue there is also a need for inter-autonomous cooperation between networks of centres, promoting meetings with entities aimed at promoting the equality of other autonomous communities for the same purpose, and in order to add experiences carried out in other communities and incorporate them into the activities of the Greek ICDs. All these possibilities of replicating experiences are those that will provide the CIM Network with a true quality of services and will allow it to speak of real advantages, thus encouraging — I think — municipalities that do not have CIM or those who in any case have a joint service to establish firmly within the network. And undoubtedly one of the issues that will also make this network of centres more meaningful is the opportunity to offer continuing training to all professionals who are part of each centre. Every day there are new needs of attention, and these new needs force professionals who provide psychological, legal or socio-laborative assistance to continuously update their training. They demand not only different formations but also a better time-planned offer. That the offer may be known at the beginning of the year would allow better organization of the centers and better distribution in trimesters of attention to users or users who can reach the center. This simple improvement will allow them not to accumulate during the last quarter — as we said the other day — the trainings of interest to professionals, as has been the case in recent years, which makes it impossible for many professionals to attend training. Let us bear in mind — as the directors of centres well explain — that is precisely on those dates when the annual reports of the CIMs are requested by the General Secretariat of Equality, which is already left for you days and hours of attention to users. And if we were to add training courses to this, the reality is that in the centres — especially in addition to the smaller ones — we could leave out hours of attention for a week or more users and users. Similarly, another of the advantages that the CIM Network should have would be the use of management platforms that would allow a lot of information to be shared from the centres, and could even cross data or share information about the activities and training provided in each of them. This is not being done — as has been demonstrated — or at present, by really favoring regular meetings between directors or professionals of the centres, nor through any computer tools either. What if you are alerted is from the best CIM management platform. The directors and professionals of the centers have manifested the reluctance of many women precisely in providing the data to cover the computer files. Something about the mistrust of the victims that this act assumes public visibility of their condition as users of these centers, especially in rural areas. We understand that this is a matter that deserves a necessary urgent reaction from the administration, because the confidentiality of this service must be one of the cornerstones that is assured at all times and not deterred, of course, no potential user of this resource. The decree governing the functioning of CIM refers to the necessary presence of only two professional profiles that perform the functions, on the one hand, of psychological and legal care, on the other. However, new CIM functions make more profiles highly recommended. In fact, about twenty-seven percent of CIMs already count on the profile of the Equality Agent; a fundamental professional profile to ensure the application of the gender perspective in each of the actions being performed. It is essential to avoid subsidizing this professional profile in addition to others of the same professional category, as is the case; something that is totally incoherent and discriminatory. As it also seems that the incorporation of occupational profiles in the field of social work or the orientation and intermediation of work would be the most desirable to advise users at work. And that necessary specialization of professionals and professionals is precisely the one that will allow us to guarantee the quality to which we have been claiming since the beginning of our exhibition. These and many other issues that we will now summarize are those that were demanded in those annual reports of the CIS from all over Galicia and that go through both basic issues: on the one hand, the improvement of technical means and, on the other hand, the improvement of funding. That is, the firm commitment to ensuring the survival of the CIM Network. We don't forget they're services with professionals that consolidate their working relationship over time. And this is what may be causing the reluctance of many municipalities, especially the smaller ones, the rural ones, by considering that external funding dependence can cause that in the event that this ceases would be the municipality itself, what should be incurred for those who cannot guarantee sufficient solvency in the future. That is why we believe that it is necessary for the Union to develop and guarantee its own share, and not only the dependence of the European Social Fund, to ensure much more clearly the survival of these territorial services. For all this, the Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to implement and promote this series of improvements already commented on in the Galician CIM Network, which enable them to guarantee this comprehensive and quality service for all the women of Galicia, regardless of their location in the territory and focusing on the consolidation of the integrated CIM Network throughout the territory, especially in the rural region of Galicia, by encouraging in collaboration with the various municipalities the opening of many more centres, independent or intercommunated, that allow the entire of the territory of Galicia to be covered by the 2020 horizon. On the other hand, to encourage, as I said, institutional cooperation between the CIMs themselves, as well as greater inter-autonomous cooperation. It also improves the functioning of the CIM Management Platform and the data implementation system to ensure user confidentiality. To also ensure the employment integration of women who are victims of gender-based violence, whether through agreements with companies or with local authorities. To ensure the autonomous financing of the CIM Network, which will enable, on the one hand, the survival of the network and, on the other hand, the improvement of its technical means and the incorporation of new professional profiles, especially in centres that cater for a population of more than 20,000 inhabitants.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u108	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u109	Thank you, Mr. Tellado, for interrupting all the time, for your runrunrun was frankly upset. Increased economic and social hospitality resources to break up with personal situations of violence in women of high vulnerability. And since next year 2020, it has been implementing the presentation during the January of the programme and the annual training schedule for the CIM professionals and professionals, taking into account the realities of the groups attending these centres and their problems. These are ultimately our requests, which are those of the professionals and directors of centres of all the CIMs in Galicia, and which we hope will be taken into account by all groups and that, in any case, we can arrive at a possible transaction that allows the implementation of many of them. For our band, nothing else for the moment and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u111	Thank you, President. I want my first words as a reminder to Maria José Aboy and Estrella Domínguez, the two Greek women murdered this weekend by their couples. All our affection and all our courage for their families and their friends. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, whenever we talk about information centres for women, their impulses, improvements in the provision of service, improvements in the training of their staff and even consolidation of the comprehensive CIM network in Galicia, especially in the Italian countryside — as requested by the first point of their initiative — we can only be in favour, Mrs Pierres. Because we are in favour of consolidating the Galician CIM Network throughout the territory, especially in rural areas; we are in favour of promoting institutional cooperation between the CIM itself, in addition to inter-autonomic cooperation; we are in favour of improving the functioning of the CIS Management Platform. And here I would also ask you, since you're so worried about the computer tool, you're checking it out, because it's not really that you lose a week's work on entering the data on the platform, Mrs. Pierres. I think you overreached here a little bit. And users don't even ask directly what things are then put on the platform. In the conversation with them there are a lot of things that already come out and that then the CIS staff introduces into the tool, without having to ask users directly about questions such as whether they are victims of abuse, whether they have children, whether they live alone, or whether they live with descendants or descendants. Let's keep going. We are in favour of extending the Work Insertion Programme for Women Victims of Gender Violence initiated in 2016 and 2017 to local entities and business fabric. We are in favour of continuing to support the Autonomic Network of Information Centres for Women through appropriate autonomic and technical resources. We are in favour of implementing a training programme for CIS professionals in the light of the new realities included in the new decree, such as the attention of LGTBI people, immigrants — who have always attended women's information centres — women and minors, who are a new collective that is also now included. Well, all these issues are included in our amendment, Mrs Pierres. And you're in favor? Because you, the Socialist Group, have to give a lot of explanations, because the only information center for the woman who closed down in Galicia was the Information Center for the Woman of Ponte Caldelas. And I would like to know, Mrs. Pierres, that all of your speeches here explain it to Mr. Andrés Díaz, socialist mayor of Ponte Caldelas, because he closed the CIS and threw both workers, the lawyer and psychologist, twelve years of experience and accredited training to serve victims of gender violence. You used to say here that it seems to him a short time before the victims are cared for. But at Ponte Caldelas they had thirty-eight hours a week of attention from the psychologist and the lawyer, and it turns out they're replacing him with a five-hour lawyer. And you're here to say that you have to put more staff in the CIM. I'm not against that, but what would be appropriate is that where they rule, in the municipalities they govern, to do that. And you come here asking for more resources for the CIS. Look: the CIM of Ponte Caldelas had a grant of 30,000 euros; the cost of the CIM was 33,000; the municipality put 3,000 euros, to Junta 30,000. Since they closed the CIM in 2016 they have lost in Ponte Caldelas 90,000 euros. And Junta didn't discredit the CIM, and she knows she could do it, because by decree, with three months of inactivity, that CIM to Together could discredit it and, therefore, get out of the integral network, which you come here today to ask it to be strengthened. So I think you also have to do some internal pedagogic work in your party and explain to the socialist mayor of Ponte Caldelas the importance of having a CIM in that rural area and in a small place. [[Applause]] And I also want to talk about cynicism and hypocrisy. Because if Mrs. Quinteiro comes here — as she did before — to call us cynics and hypocrites, when they rule in the Town Hall of Santiago, who in 2018 were without a lawyer seven months and two months without a psychologist, and who comes here to talk about hypocrisy and cynicism, tell Mr. Martiño Noriega that the problems of the women of Santiago are not solved with banners on 25 November and 8 March; that they resolve with staff at the information center to the woman. Tell Mr. Martiño Noriega that feminism must apply it, and don't talk about it and get behind the banners.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u112	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u113	True feminism is what is done when politics is done, when public resources are managed. [[Applause]] We'll continue to bet on the information centers to the woman. It was a People's Party government in 1995 that set up women's information centres in Galicia. And since 1995 they have never been at risk of closure; only at the time of the Bipartite, when you tried to create that parallel network that was the R+B offices. Remember them? Of course, they were right in the same populations where there were information centres for women. It's not that you wanted to increase the network of information centres to the woman; no, no, it's that where there was a CIM you put an R+B+i office. Yes, Mrs. Pontón, don't say it's not with your head because it was me who lived in the first person. I'm telling you an example: in Arzua, for example, they already put it. I invite you all to keep working and to keep increasing the CIM Network, but Junta is not the only one responsible for that increase, Mrs. Pierres. All the municipalities where it governs...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u114	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u115	...and where you rule, you can also facilitate the possibility that CIMs will increase. It is requested through the decree that is incorporated into the CIM's Galician Network and that's it. There are three new ones this year: one from the Galician Nationalist Block and two from the People's Party. In the Socialist Party for the moment no council put a new CIM, so I encourage the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u116	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u117	...to which, in fact, continues to increase...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u118	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u119	...the network of information centres to Galician women. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u121	Thank you, President. Just a nuance to the thread here from Mrs Prado's last intervention, which aims to create an idea that public services are partisans or are dependent on government. Public services are part of all the people who live and work in this country, who finance those services. And the responsibility of public administrations is to ensure that they are within the reach of all people who need them or may need them. [[Applause]] And I take it here because one of the issues that is fundamental, and it also centred on the beginning of Mrs Pierres' intervention, which had to do with what is the part of the territory of our country that would be discovered with these women's information centres, back in the forty-two percent of the country's municipalities, and that goes against — again what we were talking about in the previous intervention — the general principles that inspire, motivate and reject the law of 2007, article 4.6, territorial equity, in what was already said in 2007, twelve years ago, that in the development of the network of resources and services of prevention, care, support, treatment and protection of gender violence will be taken into account the needs to compensate territorial imbalances, ensuring access to all women, especially those who live in rural areas. Obviously, twelve years later, we continue to talk about how it is necessary to carry out and guarantee these services of care, of support, of counselling, of information to women throughout the territory, especially those territories that are in rural areas. And here, Mrs. Prado: defame, there's something left, right? Every time I hear her talk, I think that idea that my roommate told me in college -- it's absolutely real -- it's defame, that something's left. He said they were in favour of extending, supporting, generating and strengthening the Network of Information Centres to women, and talking about hypocrisy. Hypocrisy is that you entered the door in 2009, Mrs. Prado, and removed the information points to women who allowed to comarchize services, which is a fundamental issue that is at the motion today presented by the Socialist Party; which also fired workers from the consortium's equality teams from 2009; which abolished the Galician Equality Service and maintained a permanent boycott to all feminist policies that were implemented in this country when the Nationalist Galego Bloc was in government and had responsibilities for equality in the Union. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] But defame, there's something left. The Socialist Party's spokesman for the amendment tabled by the People's Party will then speak, but for us there is a question which is fundamental to what the PSOE is presenting today, and which also motivates the support we give to these initiatives from the BNG, which is to guarantee this funding to incorporate new professional profiles, to improve the provision of service, ensuring the necessary resources, which is to ensure that autonomous funding, which is not unique and exclusively dependent on European funds to maintain and guarantee the development of this service. And it's also something shared, because you will remember, Mrs Prado, when we discuss the joint position of all the forces of this chamber to send a proposal to this state pact by the Greek Parliament, one of the issues we agreed on was that we had to create a fund of support for the municipalities to strengthen public services that also have to do with the prevention and comprehensive treatment of macho violence, and specifically, in addition to social services, information centres for women. And you — at least as far as I am able to interpret myself — delete in your amendment precisely from the Socialist Party's proposals is that part that is fundamental to us, which is to guarantee public funding directly from the Galician Union to deploy and guarantee these services. On the other hand, it has not gone out until now, but we have been reporting it since the decree was reformed in 2016 and we will continue to do it: the CIMs have been charged with responsibilities and competences that they have not so far had, because there was a network of support, advice and information specifically on affectivity, sexuality, diversity, sexual orientation and so on, because all support to LGTB people in the 2016 reform of the decree should be given to them, when there are the centers, or should there be that network of centres I love you to meet that information and advice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u122	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u123	What can't be that still above all that women's information centres have to care for if they're loaded with skills and jobs that we understand from the BNG that must fulfill another network that already exists since the terrible government bipartisan as are the centers Love you. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u124	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u125	Thank you, President. We will also vote in favour of this initiative. We've been talking about this fundamental, indispensable resource for a long time, I would say, for the attention of women victims of macho violence, but we must also point out that there is an obvious problem with these centres: many find themselves in difficulty in terms of resources and in terms of staff, and also how many territorial imbalances have already emerged here. So, of course, all the steps that can be taken forward to support a resource as fundamental as this one, we will support them. And we believe that the fundamental problem — and also mentioned here — is that there is a lack of stable and permanent funding. And we think it should come from Galician Union too. Like teaching, like health, equality has to be an absolute priority, and Joine has to allocate more funds. Because while the municipalities are strangled with laws, like the Montoro Law, when they are making it extremely difficult for them to carry out many public policies from the municipalities, they also discharge all responsibilities in the municipalities. It seems to us that this is really hypocritical. So we believe that the Galician Union should take the fight for equality as a priority, and to that end allocate specific resources for these centres could also be. Then they say they are in favour of many of the measures that are set out here, for example, the coordination of these centres, which obviously lack coordination, and the workers themselves have been reporting it, but my question is: why have they been ruling since 2009 not? why do they now say they agree and have not taken any steps to improve coordination? There have been a lot of problems, a lot of time where workers have been saying they want to get together, they want to put together, share and know, and it doesn't happen. The integral recovery centre was set up and could be taking on many more tasks in this sense, and that is not being done right now. And the difficulties facing the CIMs on too many occasions are met with the effort that we have to recognise from the workers of these centers, which is very big. But for us that's not the solution. The solution cannot happen if the workers are engaged, which, of course, we stress; there must be resources and support from the administrations so that these centres which are essential should have more support. New functions have also been discussed here. A new decree was developed in which new functions were assigned to centres, but neither staff nor training nor resources were changed. How can we expect the centres to develop with the same staff that had many new tasks before? For us this is a problem, we have already denounced it when it was his time and we will continue to insist that CIMs have to have more resources and more personnel in order to be able to handle these new tasks arising from this new decree. Then, speaking very briefly of the platform. I've never used that platform, but it's -- and you know, you know, I didn't work at a CUIM -- a repeated complaint. We come together with many workers from many CIMs in the country and the complaint is that they say all, absolutely all that is, that can be improved, that takes a long time. So it's something that's obvious there's a problem. So now he agrees but in his intervention it seemed not. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We understand it's a fair claim. And then also the hour count, because much of this work doesn't come into play if it's not direct attention, but when it's mandatory that these tasks are also developed by the workers themselves, because you'll also have to adjust the subsidies so that these hours have the same task as those of direct attention. Then the subject of training. I have already said this: much more effort must be made, it cannot be dependent on the will of the workers or the municipalities, because, as I said, there is much legislation that prevents the municipalities from having enough funding for many issues, and Junta has to provide them with this funding. So on March 8th, it's clear that society said it wanted a feminist country. Well, today's the time to vote motions like this that improve. We understand that it should be approved as formulated by the Socialist Party; if we get to a transaction, we won't oppose it either. But we think it's also a little absurd to say that they do agree with all these things, that they should already be done. Well, they should probably explain why they're not doing it until today, if they look so good to you. And then, finally, we're very satisfied with the work being done in Compostela with Marta Lois, with the entire team of the Concelerie of Equality. What's the matter is that you're upset that a conchlery that isn't yours does the best work on equality ever done in the Town Hall of Compostela. It bothers them that the best campaign to raise awareness of male violence is not the People's Party. [[Applause]] And that doesn't matter to us, we want them to join the campaign of Black, we want the People's Party to be, too, because it's a campaign that's conscious, it's sensitizing. And you don't want to be. And it's the municipality, not just for this campaign, that takes further steps on equal footing. And they would like you to have done that, because you criticize everything you do but do absolutely nothing. As long as you're back, you're practically not... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u126	Silence! Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u127	...what they do is say they do. That's what they do all the time: say they do. I would ask her that I while she spoke I did not interrupt at any time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u128	Yes, I did. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u129	It's over, and we're in favour of this initiative, the People's Party seems to be too, because we hope that after they're approved this time they'll do what they so much agree to do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Author group of the motion, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u131	Thank you, President. First of all, thank you for the support of the En Marea and BNG groups. I believe that we all agree with the necessary consensus to support the improvement of the clarity of implementation in the territory of the services offered, as well as the survival of the Galician CIM Network. And that proves that it's precisely in this kind of question where all of us must be constructive and proactive always positive. [[Applause]] But the truth is, I can't finish my speech today without expressing my deepest concern. And we should ask the medical services of this camera to also look at the analysts that will make us these days in the presence of the virus that causes selective memory in this camera. And that is all you can explain is that Members and Members of the People's Party are only aware of the problems when they happen in the municipalities where they do not govern, as Mr Rueda did the other day and even today did Mrs Prado again. Let me mitigate this symptom so upset and remind you that in the Cambados Town Hall, where they won't remember either, but at that time you ruled, your CIM closed each year for a few months a year, as usual, and never — I repeat — if you've never heard any complaints, not a single complaint. By the way, do you remember who was the first director of the CIM of Cambados? Will you remember Mr. Rueda, who was that municipal secretary? [[Applause]] Ask him, and ask him about Tania Varela. And by the way, they ask him which friends they shared with and share their headquarters in this village, with such a Terito. At this point, you will understand that we have to ask for a season two of flour, and that you have already set the soundtrack to be dangerous Friends, because the thing promises and much. [[Applause]] What I don't know is if you like this sequel as much as we do. From a background like these, I ask them to park their political hypocrisy. You also commented on the word hypocrisy, and I like to get it out. When they ask the rest of the groups for a constructive spirit, please be the first to apply the story. Let us be, please, responsible; let us work in favour and not against equality. And as far as the amendments tabled by the People's Party are concerned, we are prepared to deal with a amendment which adds to the rest of the measures envisaged, of course, the mention of "guarantling and supporting the CISG in any case", especially in the event that one day it may cease the entry of the European Social Fund, which is the main economic support of the current network. I hope that with this transaction in that sense we can adopt this initiative by unanimity of the House. Nothing else on my side, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. G.P. motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of da Patricia Otero Rodríguez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia for equality between women and men
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u133	This motion has been tabled as an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea and by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. [[(G. P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mrs Paula Vázquez Verao, through her spokesman and in the light of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendments to this motion.Amendment of amendment.The text of point 4 of the resolution of the motion must be replaced by the following: "4o) Impulse immediately a collective negotiation of the Italian field, with employers and trade unions, with the aim of establishing measures to achieve effective wage equality between women and men, raise yellow wages and establish improvements in conciliation and time organization, in compliance with the parliamentary agreement adopted on 28 December 2016."Additional amendment.You must add, after the resolution of the motion, these two new points:"8o) Impulse public procurement clauses which guarantee that you do not hire from the Board with companies that keep the pay gap between men and women.9o)Exclude in the process of recruiting the Board all that company that has been sanctioned by the Labour Inspectorate or convicted in judicial judgement by maternal Moobing, gender discrimination or any other sexist practice."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[(G. P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas Bergantinos, through her spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, presented to the Bureau the following amendment to this motion.Additional amendment.After the resolution of the motion, these two new points should be added:8)Corrigide the lack of compliance with aspects collected in Law 11/2007 of 27 July 2007, Galicia for the prevention and comprehensive treatment of gender violence, in Law 7/2004, of 16 July, Galicia for equality of women and men and in respect of Galicia for state legislation on the subject.9)Remitting to the Galician House within two months the results of the alleged first year of impulse of the White Conciliation and Co-responsibility Plan 2018-2021.)]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u134	To formulate the motion has the floor to Mrs. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u135	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. The motion for a debate today is to substance the Interpellation debated at the plenary session on 26 February on the policy of the Galician Union for Labour Equality and Wages between Men and Women. If in any case this Socialist Group agrees with the statements made by the councillor, Mr. Conde, during this interpellation is that there is a lot to be done to achieve that wage and labour equality between men and women. Imagine how long this path can be if we follow Mr Feijóo's regressive policies, of cuts in budget shares devoted to equality, protection and promotion of women, as well as the cuts in policies to support the reconciliation of working and personal life. You, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, are very happy these days celebrating the ten years of Mr. Feijóo's government. But let me tell you one thing: these ten years will not be remembered for having firmly and forcefully wagered to achieve equal work and wages between men and women. To bet on that real equality between men and women, we have to make budget allocation, and the Government of Galician Union has done quite the opposite in these ten years. [[Applause]] The Junta de Nuñez Feijóo cut four out of every five euros for the match of "Equality, protection and promotion of the woman"; today it's a quarter of what it was ten years ago. Ten years ago, being Mr. Touriño president of the board, EUR 33.55 million; today, with Feijóo, 7.36 million. Ten years ago there were more than five million to support the reconciliation of family and personal life; today the budget is far from two million euros, exactly 1.62. This is Mr. Feijó's commitment to the Greek women. And I was saying before that this way of achieving wage and labour equality would be very long, so long that if we followed these policies of the People's Government we could take it six hundred and fifteen years. Yes, they heard well: in Galicia it would take six hundred and fifteen years to eliminate the pay gap. This is not what the Socialist Group says, but the group of Fatenda technicians, who in their third edition of the "Wage and Crystal Roof" report, with the 2017 data, tell us that the Welsh people charge on average 27.5 percent less than men and that in absolute terms the difference in payrolls in Galicia is 4,431 euros. This report places Galicia as the most extreme case, since it calculates that at the current pace in our community it would be at the most time that it would remove this pay gap. While it places in eighty-seven years the average period in the set of Spain that would be necessary to match payrolls between men and women. Average period in Spain: eighty-seven years, and in Galicia, at this rate: six hundred fifteen years. In Galicia, women don't charge more than a quarter of the wages men receive. It's incredible, but the Germans, according to this report, will not achieve wage equality until the year 2634. If we say that the wage gap in Galicia is 27.5 percent, in the case of pensioners, the difference exceeds thirty-six percent. According to this report, the causes of this tremendous pay gap are that women have more precarious contracts, with partial schedules, with wages under EUR 7,400 per year and also by the so-called glass ceiling, since from EUR 60,000 per year, women have only one third of their jobs. Faced with this reality, the Technicians of Fairy call for action to end these inequalities. These include recommending the increase of squares in public schools children aged from zero to three years, as well as the increase of squares in specialized centers for the care and care of older and dependent people. And what did the government of Feijóo do about senior residences? The policy of Feijóo on this issue can be summed up in a phrase: "There is a true spring of private squares in larger residences, while we continue in the winter in public squares." The report of the Board of Auditors on adult care, published in July 2018, says so. [[Applause]] Since the arrival of Feijóo to the Government of the Union, zero public residences and zero squares have been launched directly managed by the Autonomous Administration. We are the tenth autonomous community in public spending for dependents, to which less contributes with respect to the state contribution. As far as infant public schools are concerned, Feijóo's great election promise has become a new fiasco, and I'm talking about the infant schools in the industrial polygons. We've been discussing the number of public squares for a long time and how it's possible that with a negative vegetative balance there are waiting lists in public childhood schools. This is because these matches are not budgeted; thus, conquering real equality looks like utopia. And it's not just that they don't implement active policies that allow this pay gap to be eliminated, but that the People's Party in Madrid has voted against an eminently social general budget, budgets that were destined in 50 and five percent to social policies. You voted against providing coverage to the unit, you voted against the universalization of free public education; these measures, which would serve to advance the elimination of that pay gap. But since they are not the same as ruling some who rule others, and as much as bothering the People's Party and its citizen partner, Mr. Pedro Sánchez will rule until the last day. Yesterday, the Central Electoral Unit supported and validated the social Fridays of the Socialist Government; therefore, the Government will continue to present decrees, since the Central Electoral Unit — and step to read textually — says: "Design the claim since it does not reveal that there has been any conduct prohibited by Article 50(2) and (3) of the LOREG". In coherence with the socialist line, which governs to improve the lives of workers and workers and the passive classes of our country, last Friday, March 8, the Royal Decree of Urgent Measures for Equal Treatment and Opportunity in Employment and Occupation was published. This royal decree aims to eliminate the pay gap and to guarantee the right of workers to reconciliation and co-responsibility. Child birth and child care permits are extended to be progressively equalized to both parents. It brings together the reform of the Staff Regulations to strengthen equal pay between men and women, without discrimination, and the right to reconciliation of working and family life, in line with the recommendation of 7 March 2014 of the European Commission. The concept of work of equal value is introduced into our legal system, and it is established that companies will carry a wage register to which workers can access through their legal representatives. A three-year deadline is also set for companies with over 50 employees to develop and implement an equality plan. In addition, we continue with improvements: today the Royal Decree of 8/2019, of urgent measures of social protection and of combating work precariousness in the working day, is published. It gives the necessary coverage to people who are in situations of vulnerability, such as the cases of long-term unemployed, pensioners, Thursdays, immigrants and certain groups. Among the news highlights the recovery of the age of fifty-two years for unemployment benefit, increases the number of family benefits and the minimum total permanent disability pension for those under the age of sixty. At the state level, in the last few months, homework is being done, but we don't see the same at the autonomous level. That's why this group brings this motion, a series of real proposals to fight the pay gap, and we hope that it will go ahead with the support of all groups. These measures include the application of Article 34 of the Organic Law 3/2007 in the public procurement of the Galician Union; the establishment of a working table with employers and trade unions for the hourly conciliation and the organisation of schedules; a report to the Galego Labour Relations Council on the measures to be introduced in collective bargaining to promote equality and the reduction of the wage gap; a balanced composition of the board of directors of public enterprises in the Galician Union; and an annual report on the occasion of the commemoration...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u136	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u137	...—I have finished, President—of the International Day for Pay Equality, to account for the execution and evaluation of the measures taken, facilitating wage statistics disaggregated by sex. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u139	Good morning, ladies. We cannot interpret this initiative and decide on our vote as allies and allies to the context in which we are. I want to remember that, against all prognosis, and despite the constant questioning, despite the criminalization concerned and despite how difficult it was to revalid the success of 2018, we actually do it again, and the feminists of this country overcome all expectations on March 3 in Lugo and all expectations on March 8 in a strike that, once again, was absolutely historic and in which Galicia, once again, exceeded with much the capacity to mobilize the rest of the state. Thousands of women — thousands of people — have gone out on the street to protest against inequality, to protest against violence, to protest against areas such as care or consumption, which fall primarily on our backs, but also against the discrimination that still remain in the workplace today, which is what essentially deals with the Socialist Party's initiative. Because it's not possible to live a decent life without a decent framework, without work rights that by themselves are not enough right now, and that is something that goes to the detriment of the entire working class of this country. But, above all, we women suffer discrimination added, which are theoretically illegal, but remain. We, after this 8 March, once again assumed that mandate that we were given the streets; we understand that the correction that we did not see in 2018 by the People's Party should be seen this 2019. I would like to make a reflection on the concrete issues presented by the Socialist Party today. Let's see if the level of censorship has passed, because today, of course, we can hear in this parliament that there are things that haven't happened to Franco, but then we can't value the policies of equality of the People's Party, so let's see if the threshold of censorship has passed. But it is that we are once again faced with an initiative where most of the points are on a fundamental issue, which is to ask the Government of the People's Party to comply with the Equality Act and to comply with the legislation on equality. And that should at least unraveling a little noise on the cheeks of the People's Party bench, because, moreover, we do not talk about laws that were enacted last week; we speak of the State Equality Law — from 2007, twelve years ago — we speak of the Greek Equality Law — from 2004, fifteen years ago — and the following German Equality Law — from 2007, twelve years ago. And so, a sum and it goes on; even something as elementary as creating a badge that gives priority to companies that are related to equality, and here we see how this initiative returns to us the picture of which are the policies of the People's Party: many promises, many promises; "promises that are worthless", which the song would say. And not only that, but then we see things like the president of the Galician Union announcing great news. I was a little amazed when last week I saw Mr Feijóo all proud telling us that the first law of demographic impulse would have a certificate for companies that promote real equality. Looks like this government has some fish memory. I no longer say that they remember issues like the one I have here in my hand, which is Decree 33/2009, so it regulates the promotion of equality in companies and the integration of the principle of equality in employment policies, chapter V, in which the development of the Galician Brand of Excellence in Equality is specified, but they have even forgotten their own history, of their own government, because some honourable Member, formerly Labour Counsel, since 2010 — the United States — has put in place the distinction of business excellence in equality. [[Mrs. Presas Berganginos showed you a document to the members of the House.]] An ambitious badge! It was so ambitious the badge that I'm looking forward to that, through Article 9, I'm confirmed by how many companies, but I think only one; by the hemerotheque they only had to appoint a company, and after 2010 they shouldn't have agreed on any March 8, no November 25, and there they left us in a coffin, dead, something that collects the State Equality Act of 2007, something that the own subsequent Greek regulation has developed, that the People's Party has put in a drawer and now announces to us as great novelty. [[Applause]] Suddenly it's fantastic and wonderful and will solve all the problems of the working women in this country that distinction of equality. Finally, it causes a little bit of this permanent debate on issues that have been legislated for over a decade. And, of course, we will vote in favour of this Socialist Party initiative. Lots of bitches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u141	Well, we also feel that I don't know whether I'm bluffing, sleeping, or directly ashamed to have to speak again, in March 2019, about payroll, and it's a shame because if we see the failure of a system, of a society and of governments that allow the alleged economic recovery, that GDP growth since 2014, does not come; and not only does it not reach the social majority, but it does not particularly reach women. And in this way, the pay divide, the percentage of wages that women should have, on average, raise our income to match men, does not stop growing since that famous year 2014: if it was 26.5 percent in 2014, it is today thirty percent. And not only that, but it's also rooted in women's poverty; there's a clear feminization of poverty: if the risk rate of poverty in our country is 22.6, it's 24.4 in the case of women. And let's add one more element, which has increased during the crisis the number of women who care for dependent people without contributing to social security. All these elements sink into the structural causes of the wage gap, and that's why I was talking here about the proposal that it would take more than six hundred years — at this rate, of course — to achieve wage equity between men and women. And this happens in a context where the structure is of precarious work throughout the country, but it especially affects women, because about seventy-seven percent of part-time contracts are female, but it's also female people who occupy the jobs that have the lowest wages. But besides, of those seventy-seven percent part-time contracts that are women's, more than sixty percent of them work part-time because they don't find a full-time job. And we added another element that has to do with that dimension of care, which continues to occupy the woman: 13.5% of women accepted part-time employment to care for minors or dependents against two percent of men. Here are the root causes of that pay gap, which, five years from that supposed recovery, only increases. It is also a context of structural precariousness in the working class of Galicia: the Greek wages suffered loss of purchasing power, increased the rate of temporality, destroyed jobs... these are the successes of the ten years of Feijóo: 100,000 jobs less, and the pay gap continues to grow. A gap, which the proponent explained, is even greater among pensioners: fifty-eight percent of a wage divide, if we take into account the wage that would have to increase the Greek pensioners to reach the male pensions, already the lowest in the state. But let's add one more element, because the pay gap, even less, also happens in public employment. Also, because it has a dimension equal to the rest of the job, which is that women occupy jobs of lower social worth, and we also take into account that public employment in our country is mostly female, especially in health care, education and direct social policy care centres. We wanted to bring this reference here because it is the Social Policy Council that accumulates the highest accident rate in the Union, being the over effort the main cause of these occupational accidents. There's also an element of women's working precariousness caused by the Union itself. We also wanted to make a reference today, speaking of wage cracks, to the many labour conflicts that are open in our country and that especially affect women. By the way, conflicts that generally have less visibility than males, such as Vodafone's ERE and Bosch Vigo or the permanent conflict that lives — especially all — girls who work in Attento, who subject their workers to unbearable work rhythms, selective dismissals with a willingness to harm the union struggle and low wages. These are all cases in the telecommunications sector, a particularly precarious sector and in which women under the age of thirty-five are employed. So we added one more element to end the wage gap: to repeal labour reforms and to control multi-service ETTs and companies. But finally, in order to finish — that there is only one minute left — the pay gap and equality are not a little thing we have to go through every 8th of March, but we must practice it. How should you practice it? First of all, by complying with the laws, something so obvious that has already been outlined by the various actors. This motion is not far beyond the law, and that's precisely why it is necessary, because the laws of equality, autonomy and state provisions are not complied with. And equality is also achieved if the Galego Consortium of Equality and Welfare ceases to be arbitrary in granting rights to the conciliation of workers. One sentence has just condemned the Consortium for that, for not granting a leave of conciliation to a worker. That's equality too. The salary gap is also avoided by preventing the Union from establishing minimum abusive services in the March 8 strike — judicial judgments thus confirm it — or by applying social clauses in public procurement and avoiding contracting with companies which, for example, the North Group — discriminate against their workers without granting them the additions of peinousness, danger and toxicity to men. And another element — so we added an amendment — is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u142	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u143	...to comply with Parliamentary agreements, because here we made an agreement in 2016 to convene a collective negotiation of the Italian field to raise the Greek wages and end the salary divide, and we don't know that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u144	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Mrs Otero, I don't know if you're in the primary campaign to go on the lists of deputies to the national senator, because, of course, besides being here to defend the social Fridays and Mr Sánchez's decrees, it brings an initiative for us to comply with a state law that has to comply with the Council of Ministers and to ask us that the Council of Galicia conforms to the State Law on Public Administration. But Galicia has its own legislation, Mrs. Otero! I think you're a little sloppy, I think. Everything you said... I don't have as much time as you had to lie, one by one, all the lies you told in your intervention, but some will lie to you. Because, of course, you can't come here to say so many barbarities in such a short time, Mrs. Otero. Besides, to be credible, it has to be strict, and I'm going to tell you some questions about what you said... I know you don't like it, but listen, which also then bothers them when they talk at the other side; listen. [[Balbordo.]] Look, you come here with an initiative to comply with state law. There are things we can do, but there are others that are impossible to comply with, because we have our own public procurement legislation and we cannot comply with article 34 of the law, as you ask. Look: you insist on comparing things that are incomparable. You come to compare the Touriño board's equal budget with the 2019 board's equal budget. Don't you know that you've changed the organizational structure of the Galician Union? You don't know that when I was running Touriño there was a Vice President of Equality and Welfare, which was the one that had that budget of what you're talking about, where the children's schools were included and where the child's check was included, for example? What do you want to compare us? You want us to compare? We bought it! Look, childhood schools: in 2009, 2.9 million euros; in 2019, twelve million euros. Children's cheque: EUR 1.7 million in 2009; EUR 28.5 million in 2019. [[Murmurs.]] Child benefit under three: 2 million Mr. Tourinño, 4.9 million Mr. Feijóo. The maintenance of the Consorcio's childhood schools — note this — Mr Tourinño, EUR 25.6 million; the People's Party, EUR 41.9 million, Mrs Otero. [[Murmurs.]] And you know why? [[Murmurs.]] Because the number of children's school squares increased with the Government of the People's Party. And let me talk about dependency, when the Central Government is not assuming the 50 percent payment it has to pay, and when the People's Party Government has passed from fourteen thousand dependents attended to sixty thousand today; sixty thousand, which was an objective that we set ourselves for 2020, by the end of the legislation, and that today, in 2019, is already fulfilled, Mrs. Otero. Don't come here with data that are absolutely false. And he's talking about children's schools in industrial polygons. Well, tell me about Lugo, for example, that the Socialist Party itself rejected a child's school in the industrial polygon. And tell me that in the report Gestha's salary break and glass ceiling — what you referred to — Galicia is an extreme case. Mrs. Otero, the figures cannot be twisted and the figures are not opinionable. The figures are what they are, and I'm going to give you the data in this report. You made reference to an interpretation which Mr. José María Mollinedo did of the rate of reduction of the last year, he made a calculation of the years which would take us the reduction. But look, the real fact is that Galicia has a 27.5 percent pay gap and the total is 29.3, that is, -1.8, and you said Galicia was an extreme case. For if Galicia is an extreme case with -1.8, what can we say about Andalusia, which has a 30.7 — + 1.4 —? Or of Asturias, ruled by the Socialist Party, with 37.6, i.e., +8.3 —I remind you: Galicia, -1.8. Or Cantabria, with +5,6. And so I could put a lot of cases of autonomous communities — which I don't have time — to him. Read the report and don't come here and manipulate it, Mrs. Otero, please. It is not credible if you are not strict, and if you are not strict, do not go up this rostrum to try to deceive all Members of this House and the citizenship that is listening to us. Look, out of the seven points you're proposing, we're in favour of supporting you five. Two of us wouldn't support them for something I just explained to them. Point 1 cannot support this because it refers to the recruitment of the General Administration of the State — as you can imagine — we are in Galicia. Point 3: In Galicia we have our own brand, we don't have to copy the mark of state law, we have a law. We have this law. He took the DOG on February 17, 2006, which has a law that you also passed in the Bipartite, Mrs. Otero: the Law of Equality at Work, which was a socialist adviser; he can come here and take over the law. [[Mr Prado del Río shows you a document to the members of the House.]] And, look: in that law, Articles 72 and the following completely regulate obtaining the Galician Brand of Excellence in Equality. I know that Mrs. Presas says it doesn't work; well, let's push her, but let's not copy another state when we have our own.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u146	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u147	Then they come here to ask for more self-government, and it turns out, when we have our own laws, you want to apply state laws. [[Murmurs.]] Look, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank those rumors, which then bother so much, for not giving up when Members and Members of the People's Party intervene. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Mrs. Quinteiro: you will be very proud of the Government of Santiago; I wouldn't be so proud when they don't make the victims available...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u148	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u149	...for seven months a lawyer and, for two months, the psychologist. And this year, of which we've been three months, two have been without a psychologist.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u150	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u151	You remain proud of that government; I would not be proud of banners, but to provide resources for victims and women's equal attention. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Your time is up. Thank you. Motion author group, Mrs. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u153	Thank you, President. To start with the last of the voices: that you talk to me today about manipulation, precisely you, Mrs. Prado... That you talk to me about manipulation when you're a perfect expert in manipulating data and manipulating reality... is that you have to be very hypocritical, which I think you used before that word. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u154	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u155	If you want to talk...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u156	Mrs. Prado, be quiet. You've already had your turn. Mrs. Otero, now it's up to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u157	Well, to be rigorous, we only need to read point 1 of our motion: we say that the measures contained in Article 34 of Organic Law 3/2007 are applied in the public procurement of the Galician Union. [[Murmurs.]] It's true, don't get nervous. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] Article 34 refers to contracts of the General Government of the State, but it states that measures to promote effective equality between men and women in the labour market, as provided for in the legislation on public sector contracts, must be introduced in their performance conditions. What is the problem with applying these measures here in Galicia? I don't think there's any kind of problem. Well, I fully agree with the spokespersons of the BNG and En Marea, who said we didn't come here asking for more or less laws that have been passed for many years, laws that are 2004 and 2007. After all these years, we must continue to bring these initiatives here to comply with laws which have been adopted for so many years. Well, I also want to thank the support of BNG and En Marea for this initiative. And, of course, the data — I mean, what they say about the wage gap — did not come up with them by the Socialist Party: the data are real, the data are there, and at this rate — I did not manipulate the figures — it would take us six hundred and fifteen years to end the pay gap. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] And, to speak of the amendments: on the amendments tabled, we reached an agreement to negotiate point 4 of our motion, both by En Marea and by the BNG, and point 4 of the motion would be drafted as follows: "Initiate immediately a collective negotiation of the area of Greek with employers and trade unions, with the aim of establishing measures to achieve effective wage equality between men and women, raise the Greek salaries and establish improvements in conciliation and time organization, fulfilling the parliamentary agreement taken on 28 December 2016, as well as referring to the Welsh House, within two months, the result of the first year of impulse of the yellow Conciliation and Co-responsibility Plan 2018-2021". Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u159	After the motions have been closed, we shall proceed to the vote. Close the doors, please. We started by voting for the En Marea Parliamentary Group. A transaction with the Socialist Parliamentary Group was pending. Do you have a deal? Have they reached an agreement? Do all groups know her? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Does the Popular Group know her, too? Well, we proceed to vote on it with that transaction. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, of course, you have to know all the groups. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I wasn't in the debate. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. in Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the processing of information on equality. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u160	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. I was awaiting a transaction with the Popular Parliamentary Group, I don't know if there's any agreement. Is there a deal? Can you read us the transaction, please? [[Mrs. Pierres López speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u161	The points 1, 2, 3, 4 and the heading as it was... excuse me, 1, 2, 3, heading and point 6, as they were in our initiative. And the points 4 and 5 were traded. The 4 says: "Extend the work integration program for women victims of gender violence initiated in 2016 through non-profit social initiative entities this year 2019 to local entities, as well as business fabric." And point 5 says: "Continue to support the autonomous network of Women's Information Centres, ensuring the financing of the necessary economic resources beyond the current period of European funds, as well as the precise technical means, and to encourage the inclusion of professional profiles in local entities in addition to those set out in Article 10 of Decree 130/2016 of 15 September, so the requirements and procedures for the recognition and accreditation of information centres to the women of ownership of local entities in Galicia are laid down."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u162	Thank you. We voted for this transaction. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Maria Luisa Pierres López, on the improvements that must implement and promote the Galician Union in relation to the Network of Information Centres for Women. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. The compromise text of this motion is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u163	Finally, we voted for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Ms Patricia Otero. There's a deal that came up with the Parliamentary Group of En Marea and the BNG that affects point 4. Lenola? Please read it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u164	They would remain all the points of our motion except the fourth, which we would change and be drafted in the following way: "Impulting an immediate collective negotiation of the Greek field with employers and trade unions, with a view to establishing measures to achieve effective wage equality between men and women, raising the Greek wages and establishing improvements in conciliation and time organization, complying with the Parliamentary Agreement taken on 28 December 2016, as well as referring the results of the first year of the European Year of Conciliation and Co-responsibility Plan 2018-2021 to the Greek Chamber within two months."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u165	Thank you. We voted for this transaction. [[Mr Prado del Río asks for a word.]] I'm sorry. Yes, Mrs. Prado, what do you want the word for? [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] Do you accept the point vote? You don't accept it. So we voted for the transaction as it was. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of da Patricia Otero Rodríguez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia for equality between women and men The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u166	We suspended the session until four and a half, 16.30. Good afternoon. [[The session is suspended at two and fifty-three minutes in the afternoon and resumed at four and thirty minutes in the afternoon.]] Change in agenda development
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u167	We continue the session with a change in the agenda, as already noted. Specifically, in advance of a question to the Government. Question of Da María Luisa Pierres López and four other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the implementation of the I Plan of Equality of the General Administration of Galician Union
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u168	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u169	Well, good afternoon to all and to all. Good afternoon, Mr. Rueda. Law 2/2007 of 28 March 2007 on equal work for women in Galicia provides, as you well know, for equality plans for self-government, also for their autonomous bodies, public societies, the foundations of the self-government public sector, the public law entities linked or dependent to the Autonomous Community and also for bodies with differentiated resources in the budgets of the Autonomous Community. Well, if you remember well, on April 25, 2017, a non-legislative proposal by this Socialist Group was presented to the plenary debate on 25 April 2017 to find out the state of work for the urgent launch of the I Plan of Equality of the General Administration of Galicia. The initiative has not reached the support of the Government's group, and I would like to remind you here that, in particular, it was for the People's Group's refusal to request the drafting of a report which made the fact so far manifest; they refused. And you know why they refused? Because that report was as much as I recognized the Board that I hadn't done anything. Today — March 2019 — the reality is that the equality plan continues without being a reality twenty-three months later on our initiative, and it is surprising when we see that, on 8 March last year, Mr. Feijóo had already announced the "imminent" approval — this was the word used: "in imminent" — of the I equality plan of the Greek administration. We have therefore been waiting for almost twelve years for a measure to win the goal of equal work between women and men and the elimination of discrimination on the grounds of sex. Given that it is the first public administration itself that is unable to comply with the obligations of the law, it is no wonder that in 2017 only about 10 percent of Spanish companies with more than 200 workers comply with organic law 3/2007, for the effective equality of women and men. On 4 July 2017, the Interdepartmental Commission on Equality agreed to draw up the I Plan for Equality of the General Administration of Galicia. And on March 12, 2019, more than 20 months later, we're still waiting for their approval and put in motion, without any news about it. Because we no longer fully understand what it means in the language of this government, today we ask you, Mr. Rueda: how much longer do you think the Government of Galicia's board will delay the implementation of the I Plan of Equality of the General Administration of Galicia? How much longer will this government commit to breaking its promises?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u170	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Pierres, indeed, in the plenary session of this Parliament on 25 April, a PNL has already been discussed, and you have reflected the content of the question she makes, but we voted against; you were asked to have two more months, to make a report, and from then on to fulfil a legal obligation. And what the Government did was to comply with that legal obligation and, therefore, to work on that plan; in fact, in July, the Interdepartmental Commission formally approved the start of that plan, and that is what has been done so far. What I do not agree with, and I would like to make it clear in this first answer to your question, and what I understand from your formulation is that, while there was no such equality plan — indeed, I agree with you — the administration of the Galician Union is, by law, obliged to do so — as such administration of the Galician Union, it is that there were no things being done, and that therefore the situation of inequality had been patented and that this resulted in much greater prejudices. If you've been doing things, I just want to remind you that, apart from that diagnosis that you've been doing -- and it's mandatory to make that diagnosis before you approve the plan; it's in the same law that you quote -- we didn't start from zero, or much less, and that's also allowed that diagnostic work to be done seriously, in a way that allowed you to evaluate an administration as broad, as complex as the Galician Union, to develop a proposal for an equal plan that was appropriate and, above all, that could work and that was realistic. But I would like to remind you that in 2014 — I think it is fair to acknowledge it — flexibility and telework have been implemented, which is an important part of equality that is now reflected in the diagnosis being made in the Council of Galicia. We were pioneers at that time; in today's day, almost all that -- and there were many thousands of workers, and above all workers -- who wanted to welcome these plans is normally doing so within the board of Galicia. In 2017 — I would like to remind you too — the Decree on the Training of Self-Government Staff on Gender Equality and Violence was adopted; I think it was also a pioneer among the self-governments at that time. In 2018 you know that maternity leave was extended to twenty-two weeks; now it's true that there is a state-level legislation which, by the way, has not come into force for the reasons that the national government has exposed recently, but which may be even broader than that, and there is a clause that says that, in any regulation that may be more beneficial in that sense, the autonomous administration will adapt to it. So things have also been done: the 2017-2020 Equal Opportunity Strategic Plan and the 2018-2021 Conciliation and Responsibility Plan set out measures. What do I mean by this? That time has not been wasted while drawing up that diagnosis, which is mandatory by law, and which has therefore advanced on an equal footing. And now what matters is, logically — as you say — fulfilling that legal obligation to approve the I plan of equality in the autonomous administration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u172	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u173	Yes, Mr. Rueda, you've been in the Government for ten years and therefore nearly ten years unable to implement the I Plan of Self-Government Equality. [[Applause]] Do you want me to remind you of how many years the People's Party has been — for example — ruling in the Parliament of Pontevedra in the democratic era? Thirty-three years; and since the law of equal work was passed, eight years. Do you know how many years the Socialist Party has been ruling the Pontevedra Deputy? Something over three years. And do you know how long it took to put in place this institution's first equality plan? Just over two years. And you know how he did it? By putting equality at the heart of their policies. It's that simple. He marked it as a priority and got to work from the very first moment. [[Applause]] Moreover, the Deputy of Pontevedra not only approved the I Plan of Equality for the two years of its term of office, it was the first plan of the Spanish Public Administration to be drawn up on the basis of an audit of gender work. An obligation which, by the way, is already for all administrations following the Royal Decree on Employment Equality that the Government has passed this past week. That is the real commitment to equality: not simply to do things because, indeed, they are legal obligations, but to do everything possible — even — to improve them, so that equality can be achieved in a real way and is strongly contributed to eradicating all inequalities between women and men, starting with the example of the administration itself. Do you see the difference between those who say they do and those who really do things? Do you see what it means to be committed to equality and what it does not? Do you see how you can't talk about something that's imminent when jobs aren't even started? So I ask you again: how much more will you have to wait for the women and men who work in the German Autonomic Administration to whom you put the pillars of equality? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Close the question, Mr Vice-President and President-in-Office of the Council, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u175	Yes, Mrs. Pierres, you didn't understand me — of course — in the first part of my speech; that is that the work is not started... of course, certain jobs are started. First -- I'm telling you again -- the diagnosis is mandatory by law; that's what has been done so far, having a lot of advanced work. And you say that the Deputy — of course serves as an example, other things that have to do with the placement of workers does not want or speak — it took two years; for perhaps he had things done earlier that allowed him to do that quick work. The Galician Union, of course, did that work, and I cited examples; we were not on arms at all. [[Laughter]] You've been doing that job and therefore I can tell you that now, in the same month of March, that work worked out if you're going to move to whom you first have to see it: in the light of the Galician Union, the representatives of the workers and workers of the Galician Union who are going to affect that equality plan; that is, the trade unions with representation. We'll give them a transfer of that plan and logically it's not yet approved because it's now starting its final phase by the workers' representatives. We are awaiting your allegations and, immediately, of course, we will also find out in this parliament, and this year the first equality plan will be drawn up, and we hope that it will be in force. A realistic plan, a well done plan, a plan made after a diagnosis that analyzed an administration — I'm sorry to say — much more complex than a deputation, with all due respect and all the differences — we're talking about a template of nearly 100,000 people, and that we're going to try to reflect, to be able to apply from the very first moment, all those extremes, all those circumstances that a well done equality plan has to have. I remind you that since 2015 it is mandatory to make this kind of plan, and already long before the Galician Union — I insist — it was working; but since that moment and, above all, from 2017 onwards, when that agreement was taken at the Interdepartmental Commission, it was working for that diagnosis. The plan is already drawn up, transferred to the unions, and this year it will come into force, I hope that with the consensus and collaboration of the opposition's political groups as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u176	Thank you, Vice President. We continue with the agenda item. Opinion of the Committee on Culture and Tourism, on its own request, to report on the implementation of the new plans and measures in the field of tourism
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u177	Mr. Román Rodríguez González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u178	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen. I compare today in this chamber to account for the work that we are developing in tourism and also in the work done in the preparation of the next Xacobeo. Only six months ago we took responsibility for this new council, being aware of the importance of tourism to Galicia. We are faced with an activity that involves around 10.4% of our gross domestic product and also about 11% of our jobs. Exceltur's most recent data show that tourism-related employment is growing at a rate of 7% per year, reaching a hundred and ten thousand jobs. In 2017, the tourist contribution to our economy exceeded six billion euros, with an increase of 9.6 over the previous year. In addition, only in 2018 were four hundred and four new service companies created, showing the new momentum and dynamism that is living in the sector. All these figures make it clear that we are facing an expanding activity, a strategic piece for the present and also for the future of Galicia. But tourism is more than an economic engine. Every year millions of visitors arrive in Galicia, and arrive in Galicia, attracted by our coasts, by our rural areas, by our heritage, by our gastronomy; each of these visitors is ultimately transformed into an ambassador of our land. Visitors who leave part of what they are in Galicia, but they also take part of what we are. These two facets, the economic sector and the image of Galicia, define our model: a quality tourism model, with a rich and diverse offer that extends throughout the year; a sustainable tourism model, committed to the environment, the culture and the development of the territory, and a profitable tourism model, which brings benefits to our businesses, creates jobs and sets the population to the territory. This is ultimately our goal: to build the best Galician to visit, which is also the best Galician to live. Last year 2018 drew us a little closer to this goal. During this year Galicia has registered 4.8 million tourists. We are ahead of the second best year of our history, consolidating the extraordinary figures of lust, in which the number of visitors grew by over 26%. The number of overnight stays exceeded 10 million, the domestic tourist's spending grew to 9.100% with respect to the previous year and that of the international tourist grew to 3.8%. It also increased hotel profitability by only 2.6% in the last year. In visitors — and in comparison with the rest of the autonomous communities of Spain — Galicia occupies the eighth position. And it's nothing less, considering that Spain is the second most tourist country in the world. We are only behind those autonomous communities where tourism has a very significant weight: Catalonia, Balearic Islands, Canary Islands, Andalusia and others. In other variables, such as, for example, the evolution of the average stay, we are the first. We have a growth of 3%, largely exceeding the Spanish trend — which, of course, in the last year was negative —. Ladies and gentlemen, the Way of Santiago also gives us good news. In 2018 we reached more than 320,000 pilgrims with Compostela, an increase of 8.6%. And the truth is, there are many more who arrive in Galicia. Some sources say that triple, that there are three times as many pilgrims as those who get the Compostela. In turn, the Way has an increasingly international character: 65 per cent of the pilgrims are foreign, on a world map reaching around 180 countries. In 2018, in addition, the distribution of flows on all itineraries was promoted, especially by the Portuguese Way — in fact, reaching 25% of the pilgrims, the second being the French Way. We also advance at the tourist level in the deseasonalization. In fact, 6 out of 10 tourists arrive outside of the central summer months. And the low season is the one that grows by 8.2% over the previous year. In short, these data confirm that Galicia has more and more to offer, and above all, it has more to offer throughout the year. From a qualitative perspective, the year 2018 also called for an improvement, an improvement in the growth of tourist spending, the increase in business creation and the rise in income from the hotel sector. Both factors, quantitative and qualitative, show that the sector continues to move well. Quantitative variables tell us about a Galicia that attracts more and more people, and qualitative variables account for a destiny that, year after year, is more competitive, sustainable and of greater quality. It's a sector that's also increasingly dissected, out of the months of summer. And that's why we have branded products based on endogenous resources and also an increasingly internationalized sector, with a higher percentage of foreign tourists and that keeps culture, landscape and gastronomy as the main benchmarks. This positive balance of last year only increases the challenge we face in 2019, in the current year: on the one hand being able to consolidate the good figures, working for an increasingly attractive destination for national and international visitors; on the other, continuing to define our tourism model, increasing commitment to the territory and the use of our resources. In short, that the Greeks have not only a source of wealth, but also a source of pride as a country, of the great and good we have as a country. Ladies and gentlemen, just six months ago in this House we drew the general lines of the Council of Culture and Tourism, an ambitious line to deal with these challenges that we have ahead of us. At this meeting we announced, among other things, two major measures in the field of tourism and that we have already launched: on the one hand, the MAT Plan and, on the other hand, the Galicia Sabe Strategy. The MAT Plan — improved tourist accommodation — directly places it by quality. It's a package of actions and help lines that support tourist accommodation to modernise your equipment, infrastructure and services. We're facing a cross-sectional action involving five autonomic departments. Plan MAT seeks to loyalize visitors, increase periods of stay and, of course, spending per tourist. This obviously has a direct impact on job creation. And, of course, this will improve the offer by stimulating the creation of new housing in territories that have a high development potential. Last January, we have already launched the first two lines of the plan: the 2019 Reform Action, driven by Igape, for the reform of hotel establishments; and the aid order, driven by the Tourism Agency, for the improvement of housing infrastructures, accessibility and renewal of its facilities. These first two MAT lines have been gifted with four million euros and will benefit more than five hotels. During these months we have also launched the Galicia Sabe Strategy, an initiative that seeks to boost the very good culinary tradition that Galicia has, and also the indigenous products; being, as you all know, gastronomy is one of Galicia's leading tourist claims. In addition, this strategy will boost competitiveness and employment in the primary sector, a strategy that will mark a roadmap and define priorities and actions in the development of enogastronomic tourism. He will generate wealth throughout the chain of value and promote recognition, protection and dissemination of the Galician gastronomic culture. Galicia Sabe was presented in January at the Board of Trustees and we already have a first diagnosis, an indispensable step towards establishing measures that boost Galicia's leading role in this area. We have actions such as the creation of a Greek map of enogastronomic resources, the development of a tourism plan for wine-growing areas — especially in the DO areas — and the impulse for new themedicine areas — for example, the routes of cheese or honey, the route of seafood and others. In addition to these two major plans, the MAT and the Galician Strategy Know, already put in place, I want to announce that in the coming months we will present the Rural Tourism Strategy, an initiative that seeks to increase the tourist supply with new experiences that value our rural, taking advantage of its own resources — landscape, gastronomy or culture — seeking to promote synergies with the primary sector and betting on a seasonalized model, committed to the environment and the development of the territory. Among other measures, the Rural Tourism Strategy will implement a new classification of establishments according to their quality and services, with a ranking of stars similar to what currently exists for hotels. Why? Because we want to improve the professionalization of these establishments, we want to promote the dissemination and promotion of their services, their comparability with the rest of the tourist housing infrastructures. And we also want to bet and give more security to customers and owners. The launch of these three major plans is complemented by a dozen other tourist programs that create new products that diversify our offer, or continue actions that are already underway and are successful in previous editions. Many of these proposals were recently presented in Fitur, Spain's main tourist forum, where the presence of Galicia was once again highlighted. In Fitur we present actions such as the route through historical helmets, and also new actions such as the maritime route on the Phoenician footprint, or the first Atlantic route of diving tourism — in collaboration, in this case, with other regions of the Atlantic arc, such as Portugal, the United Kingdom or Ireland —. We also present other products already consolidated: the route of the camellia, the tourist train, the thermal plan and others. Initiatives, all of them, which complete a high-level, diverse and quality offer, and which deepens in the destabilization and value of Galicia as a destination, also reaching a greater spread by the whole territory. The reception of Galician stand in Fitur was extraordinary. The exhibitor passed over 76,000 people, made more than 40 presentations, and kept in touch with more than two hundred specialized journalists, journalists of different nationalities. And the stand also served as a basis for the business sector, which carried out multiple business meetings. In short, a very positive balance at an event every year involves the start of Galicia's promotional activities around the world. These strategy programs, ladies and gentlemen, give proof of the work done with the aim of consolidating the Welsh tourism model, a committed model at the cultural, socio-economic and environmental level; a model that exploits the resources of our country by generating value throughout the chain and creating wealth and employment in all regions and municipalities where it develops. In addition to these lines of action, on our horizon there is a great challenge, a huge challenge: the organization of the Xacobeo 2021. A few months ago in this House we presented an ambitious project that was based, among other elements, on a participatory architecture, on a cross-sectional project that wants to involve all Galician institutions, entities and citizens in a large common project, a Jacobean of what all Greeks must feel as part of. And to achieve this, we meet with the main institutions in the country and we start actions to give true voice and true participation to civil society in this planning. Over these months we have organized numerous meetings and meetings. First — at the local level — we sit with Fegamp, with which we have exposed the opportunities and challenges presented collectively by Xacobeo 2021, especially for the municipalities, and we have signed a collaboration protocol to coordinate maintenance and safety tasks on the Way. We meet with the mayors of the Via da Plata, an itinerary that this year centralizes numerous investments, following the Plan Director of the Ways. We also sit with the French Road Town Councils Commonwealth, which is still, without a doubt, the most transited route and which has to be prepared for the increase in the flows that are expected in 2020 and 2021. In addition, we also convened a meeting with institutions and entities in the cultural and tourist field of Santiago, addressing the challenges and opportunities that Santiago de Compostela will have for him to be the great goal and destination of pilgrimages in the year 2021. In the area of autonomy, the Interdepartmental Commission continued to be convened. And here the decree for tax benefits was passed, the brand usage manual was approved, and the strategic lines for the drafting of the Xacobeo Strategic Plan were also approved. We meet on many occasions with the tourism sector through its cluster, continuing to public-private collaboration that has so well achieved so far. We made a great meeting with all the geodestinians to study the empowerment of their singularities and the opportunities that Jacob presents to generate wealth throughout the territory. We're meeting with the directors of the three Greek universities, who will undoubtedly play a crucial role in the development of this event. We called for a meeting with the associations of friends of the Way, in which we proposed the creation of a table to collaborate all in this indispensable work. And we also had the first meeting at a working table in the Galician Parliament with representatives of all the parties in this House, to which I thank you for your presence; a meeting that I had only one first contact. We'll meet again, if you have it for good, at the end of this month, and once the Xacobeo Strategic Plan is dealt with, a plan that will soon begin the drafting stage and public input seeking to build a document that represents everyone. Of course, this document and this plan will bring you to this House for approval in the second half of this year. The meetings continued at the state level. We met with the Government's delegation in Galicia at the Road Safety Bureau of Santiago's Roads. And here we have collectively and jointly proposed an operational plan to ensure the protection and care of possible continuances resulting from the foreseeable increase in the flow of migrants. We have met on several occasions with the Minister of Industry, Commerce and Tourism, whom we demand that all the autonomous communities of Spain through which the Way of Santiago passes be able to participate in the Jacobeo Council. And we also ask you to hold the next meeting of this Council in Santiago as soon as possible. Of course, we also ask the Ministry of Culture. And we also asked the Ministry of Culture — with a good response — to have a state commitment to the organization of Xacobeo 2021 and support for the BIC plan of the Way of Santiago which was presented to the so-called Minister at the time. We attended Conestur, which is undoubtedly the main tourist forum in Spain and which brings together all public administrations and the private sector, betting to involve all participants in this efemeride. Even so, in different forums we proposed to the Government of Spain the need to start planning mobility in the airport and railway system of Galicia, taking into account the arrival of AVE to Galicia in 2020 and taking into account the celebration of Xacobeo itself; which will generate a huge flow and enormous changes in intra-autonomic mobility. At the international level, we are launching large projects through agreements and contacts with some of the world's most prestigious cultural institutions, such as, in this case, the recently signed University of New York. And tomorrow we will continue with the international agenda, we will meet with the Minister of Economy of Portugal, with which we will deal with joint actions on the Portuguese Way and within the framework of the celebration of the next holy year. This intense schedule of meetings aims to collect and involve all possible contributions and all points of view within the great programming that has to be the Xacobeo 2021. Following participative architecture, we have set in motion two major measures to collect and encourage the arrivals of all. On the one hand, the tax benefit program; and on the other hand, the open call for projects Your Xacobeo. The tax benefit programme has now been promoted by the Jacobeo Council, by a proposal from Galicia. And it was approved in the State's general budgets for 2018 — remember, ladies and gentlemen — before the arrival of Pedro Sánchez to the Government, when stability made it possible to approve budgets. And these budgets not only invested notably in Galicia, but were also positive for citizens; and they made it possible, by the way, fortunately, to approve the tax benefit programme. In those budgets, the exceptional public interest of Xacobeo was recognised and the sponsorship line was approved. Thus, any natural or legal person who wishes to support Xacobeo 2021 will receive the maximum tax benefits established by law. Let me explain briefly and concisely what the tax benefits are for those who can accommodate. We can divide sponsorships into various categories: conventions, donations and advertising deductions. Collaboration agreements consist of direct contributions to finance an activity. These contributions will deduct 100 percent of the amount satisfied on the taxable basis of corporate tax, in the case of legal persons, and on net yield, in the case of natural persons. As a counterbalance to the contribution of the patrons, obviously his collaboration and image will be spread in the activity, linking in this case to the brand Xacobeo 2021. On the other hand, there are prayers, which can be economical, property or rights. In this case, legal persons may deduct 40% of the full share of corporate tax; and natural persons, 80% of those contributed up to the first 150 euros, to favor micromecenate; and 35% of the rest — always speaking of full quota—. There will also be tax deductions for advertising expenses. In these cases, the potentially unpleasant amount may amount to 90% of what a company invests in advertising promotion. Without a doubt, this mode is called to have an enormous protagonist. In addition, there are other contributions that also involve deductions in taxes on heritage transmissions, economic activities, local rates, etc. As your lords know, you can participate in this program from 1 October 2018 until 30 September 2021. And we think it's an extraordinary opportunity to be part of the Xacobeo 2021 by supporting the projects that really interest each other. The second major measure to build a participatory Xacobeo and involve the whole of Galician society was a call for projects: "Your Xacobeo", a program that started receiving proposals last January 14th and that for a month collected the initiatives of citizens, private entities, associations, municipalities, collectives, etc. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we can already balance this program and understand that it was a steady success. There are 653 applications submitted, which are divided into: 119 from local councils and entities, 188 from private entities and 346 applications from non-profit associations and entities. These figures show the great involvement and the great interest of all sectors of society and the importance given to Xacobeo 2021 by Galician society. Ladies and gentlemen, the last time I came to this House, some members of the opposition doubted the relevance of Xacobeo and described it as a kind of mere act of government propaganda. They said that the German society was going to turn its backs on it. The result of this call open to Galician society, to civil society, shows that the Greeks and the Greeks understood that this is a fundamental event. They share with us the importance of this cross-sectional and country-based project, and demonstrate it with its involvement. These 653 projects that are being evaluated guarantee that this will be the most participatory Jacob of our history, a Jacob of which we can all feel part. Ladies and gentlemen, besides participatory architecture, the planning of the holy year requires important investments, investments that will prepare Galicia for the large arrival of visitors, pilgrims and, no doubt, for the great increase in tourist flows throughout the country. This budgetary effort has begun to come true, and it has done so, a few days ago, with the bidding of eight major contracts for the conservation and maintenance of Santiago's roads throughout Galicia; an investment of 15.6 million euros that will reach 121 municipalities and will extend over 1,250 kilometers across all routes. Contracts include monitoring actions, attention to the incidence and ordinary preservation of the trace with the aim of preserving the heritage values and the safety of the pilgrim. In addition to the Road Maintenance Contracts, in 2019 we will also invest three million euros in the packaging and marking of the Via da Plata, an itinerary that will specialize in meeting the needs of pilgrims on horseback. Ladies and gentlemen, these are strong investments, investments that will not only pave the way for the holy year, but we want their effects to spread beyond the year 2021, thus leaving a more and better way for the next decade. With this same objective, we invest in building new hostels in different routes. Thus, we have the recently finished ones: in Friol, in the primitive way — EUR300,000—; Ourense's recently inaugurated one with an investment of EUR 820,000, in the Via da Plata; he is also about to open the hostel of Orders, in the English way, with an investment of around EUR 600,000; soon Vigo's large hostel will be bided, with an investment of more than EUR 1 million; and finally, we can also announce that we are already working on the creation of a new hostel in the Via da Plata specially qualified for pilgrims on horseback. In addition to work on the roads, there are also strong investments in conservation and worth many of the heritage assets that are next to the roads. Inside them, and especially, as the goal of all pilgrimages, we have the cathedral of Santiago. By the way, I take this moment to condemn the heritage attack that took place on the night of the paintings that were made on the various facades of the cathedral. He said we're assuming and developing in the cathedral a very intense, very strong package of works, perhaps the most important in our recent history. We now have 21% of the works completed and certified. We have 48% of the works running. The year 2019 is a tremendously complex year for the Jacobean basilica, since the most difficult investments and interventions are being committed, which, as you know, force you to suspend worship at certain times. And we also have 11% in tendering. That's what we have, the remaining 20%, of which the bid has not yet begun, but what we are already with the technical projects and with the drafting of projects to be able to have in the year 2021 the cathedral of Santiago — to say it in a very colloquial way — in the perfect state of the magazine. Among all of us are undoubtedly making a great effort to make this building, without a doubt, a great source of pride for all the Greeks and to be prepared for the holy year of Jacob. In the field of infrastructure we must also highlight the Mount of Gozo. We are facing an iconic element of the Jacobean that for many years was one of the central points of the celebration of the holy year. In these days, the final contract of adjudication and reform will be signed, which will start a new stage in the life of this space. And, in addition, today we want to announce that the work of cleaning and improving the lighting of this enclosure will continue, focusing immediately on the outline of John Paul II's monument. A chameleon forest will be created, like a tourist resource, boosting a concept as Greek as that of winter garden. A new space will be enabled thinking especially of the care of the horses, mainly of the pilgrims who carry out the Way in this way. And there will be an important expansion of the audience, which in two phases will reach up to 40,000 users, up to 40,000 people, who can attend the events that take place on Mount Gozo. These interventions, along with those being carried out in this case by the Infrastructure Council in the field of road safety, will entail a new revitalization of an entire space which will undoubtedly relive its great moments in the coming years. [[Applause]] These major investments in infrastructure are combined with the momentum of major events, major events that aim to promote and put Galicia to the point due, of course, to Spanish level and also to the world level. In this case, we have to frame actions like the second edition of The Way Sound, which we have just introduced. By the way, the first edition was a success, a success without palliatives, with 84,000 people who attended the Way Sound, more than half outside Galicia. It was a festival that made it possible to significantly increase the hotel demand of Santiago and its nearby surroundings, created a job for 850 people, essentially Welsh, and counted on over 80% of suppliers of Greek cultural companies. The festival left an estimated return located around 15 million. The second edition, if I may, is called to overcome this remarkable success. Fifteen days ago, as you know, the fines went out for sale for this second edition and, if in the previous year 20,000 fines were sold in a short time, in this second edition 25,000 fines were sold, 5,000 more than in the first part, in just over an hour. This demonstrates the huge response, the great interest that this initiative has, which is putting our country on the international circuit of great music festivals and attracting many people out there as well. [[Applause]] Many of these big investments are focusing on Santiago, it can't be any other way. It's the meeting place of all the roads. But the Xacobeo 2021 will be an event that will take place and will affect throughout Galicia. We will do so with intense tourist and cultural programming that will reach not only the seven cities, not only the 121 municipalities through which the roads pass, but will extend through the whole territory, through the Galician ensemble, opening up a unique opportunity to dynamize all the municipalities and all the districts of Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not starting from scratch, we are not starting from zero in these proposals. There was a very good previous work on tourism, and we want to keep working on this line. And we want to continue to do so to consolidate the great tourist growth of recent years, we want to continue to move forward towards a quality, responsible destination, which knows how to value our country's resources and generate wealth and employment. And we want to continue to do it also to put the first stones, solid stones and the future, of the great project that will be Jacob 2021. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u179	Thank you, Counselor. They've been with us for some time, and we're going to take the opportunity to greet the 5th primary students from downtown Rosalía de Castro, Xinzo de Limia, and also the teachers, who are with us today. Welcome to Parliament. And now we start the round of parliamentary groups. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u180	Good afternoon, everyone. Good afternoon, Counselor. Well, the truth is, the first thing I have to say to you, from the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, is that every time you come across from the Government to talk to us about new plans and measures in tourism, the truth is that the music we've heard is certainly quite familiar and well known. It's those lots of serene that you repeat a lot, but then, when you test them in the territory, we see that there are many plans, many plans promises, a lot of repetition of things you're doing, but really little planning and little background strategy, Mr. Rodríguez. I liked his final words, but the truth is, listening to the rest of the audience's content, I think that's more rhetoric than we put to the tourist, strategy and so on, that really a planning behind. And, starting from where you did it, the truth is, Mr. Rodríguez — and we recognize him — is that there are some positive data on the tourism scene in our country right now. Another thing is that we think the general positive trend that is living all over the northwest is exclusive to the German Government and that it has nothing to do with the set. In any case, we believe that if there are indicators that should lead us, if not to the concern, at least to the forecast and at least to a preparation for the future, especially if we broaden our focus a little bit on the time frame. Because the truth is that you too, when you make the 2018 balance, are a little cuckoo. And in some indicators, they've been comparing since 2015 or since 2016, and they don't look a little wider, because there's actually some of the indicators that aren't the way you sell them. For example, if we look at the period 2009-2017, we see how the average stay went down in all types of tourist accommodation, except rural accommodation; or how, although the absolute number of nights is increased by reference this period 2009-2017, we also see how the total increase in the number of nights in Galicia was much lower than that experienced in the state set. In any case, those are matters for us to be there. We don't do anything special, either, and we don't measure it all to weight, which is a little bit of criticism that we make to you. But precisely we understand that we need to broaden the focus a little more and it is clear that an increase in tourists can be positive, that an increase in some indicators, such as the increase in foreign visits, is positive; that there are issues, like a very timidity yet, for us, destabilization, that we have to see them, but that we have to see them as an opportunity and not as a simple scenario where we do not intervene in more strategic matters, at the bottom, and continue to navigate in that set without collectively defining a horizon. And what we think is that we have to ask ourselves a question, and it's if we're taking advantage of these opportunities, these issues that would allow us to change things in the future. We really don't think so. And we regret to have to say it, because we think that tourism is not only a fundamental part of our economy — although we think it should not be the only one, we also worry about the outsourcing to which this country is walking — but it is also our letter of international presentation and the model of country and of the future. So we understand that we have to bet on our own model in this globalized context. We're worried that you don't seem to want to go beyond the monoculture of the Way of Santiago. I insist, we think the Way of Santiago is important but we are a little concerned about monopolizing 99.9 % of the issues that you put on the table. And we also feel the need to bet strictly on a more diversified product, that there is also a policy of territorial rebalancing and that, seeing your own data, we see Ourense, for example, has 7% of the visits. Logically, Lugo and Ourense need even more balance policies. And we also need to see the needs of tourism in conjunction with other needs that this country has, for example, as regards infrastructure. And by going into some question of what you were saying — thinking, for example, on the Way of Santiago — we want to leave some reflection here on the table. First of all, it's not all that's clocked and not all that's good news. Because you always practice a very triumphal speech with Santiago's Way, and we could also talk about other studies and other visions, of the critical voices that are before you as you are taking this increase of walkers. And from an economic point of view, we can also relativize what is the real weight of the Greek economy the Way of Santiago. First, because it's a low-impact tourism. Second, because reality also speaks for itself. What was the change in the demographic trend of the municipalities by the way of Santiago? Well, neither. What was the change in dynamics of these populations? Well, neither. Therefore, we believe that we can say that you are not significantly assuming a change in social development in these localities. And anyway, it doesn't have to be, it's got to be other policies. But at least we evaluate what is and what is not Santiago's Way in its fair measure. That doesn't mean undervalue it. We noticed several absences in his speech. Because you've again talked about the tax benefits — tax benefits that Fraga has already had at some point, it's not the ultimate political innovation of this government or the central government — and we've noticed a lot of absences. Because we've been talking about these tax benefits since July 2018 and there are important debates for us that are behind us. On heritage you spoke of an important investment to fix the roads — I understood that also for heritage policy. But, of course, it's that these 12 million, basically, that's what's heritage in Galicia's board for these kinds of issues, it's absolutely insufficient from our point of view. As is insufficient what is being done in the Way of Santiago on other issues we have discussed in this House, from the protection lines to, for example, the needs of road safety. There are commitments, even driven by the BNG — for example with regard to the Portuguese Way — that, for us, are not being answered by the Council of Galicia. And this is not a reality that only sees the BNG, which only sees associations of the Way. Even the ESC itself, in its last report, pointed out the need to strengthen investments in road safety, signage, environmental aspects, heritage protection, etc. And it gives us the feeling that the Galician Union, instead of leading that economic support—which the Union has much more ability to do than other administrations—, they're not doing it. You spoke of the Strategic Plan. And if I do not understand correctly — I pray you to confirm it — it will be in the second half. We hope that, in the thread of that strategic plan, since it will also cost us more than 60,000 euros, we can reach agreements. But for us too, there are many issues of the Road Management Plan that are being abandoned and that we have repeatedly asked for their compliance. It gives us the feeling that, in terms of time and compliance, you're not going at the right pace. And the second thought about the Way of Santiago is that we really don't care about it, Mr. Rodríguez, but the Way of Santiago isn't everything. And it gives the impression that you're going to the bot smoking coup and that the cultural, tourist and almost economic policy of this community has to go on the basis that July 25 falls on Sunday. We really think that's not the way, that Jacob's product is already settled. It's being congested. We have to open up other debates than if there has to be a forest of camel or roses, which are deeper, which we discuss how the flows of the Way of Santiago are, if we have to stop expanding the routes, if we have to finally close a map once and for all, and not continue to open debates like this or how to manage some of the possible problems, a shopping list like the one you've made of issues that have been made lately. Truly I, with the hostel of Ourense, have lost a little patience. Because not only have we had almost two years' delay asking one and the other day in this House, but now we're going to have another two years in which you tell us you just opened up. Finally, we think there are more issues to discuss about the Santiago Way than to sell initiatives to weight walkers, which gives us the feeling that this is at the end of the debate: that there must be more and more, and more and more. There will be a point where this could lead us to stop being singular and be bread for today and hunger for tomorrow. So, for us, the great absence in Galician politics and also in his speech are those needs of diversification, which gives us the feeling that they are again and again promises to the air. The starting point for us is not too positive, because that Galician tourism strategy I want to remember that it didn't go through this Parliament. It was seen to present year and peak after it had already been public; therefore, participation, little. I'm glad you're trying to fix this next Jacob. But we have eternal plans from which we never knew anything: from the strategic marketing plan, for example; from the food and food plan... now you've spoken of "Galiza knows." I don't know if they finally abandon that drafting of the new food food plan, because every time there's a gastronomy fair there's someone from Galicia announcing they're working on it. I'm starting to get a little suspicious. But allow me to tell you that you have new responsibilities but old vices. Because the Rural Tourism Plan already looks like the Linguistic Standardization Plan in youth, Mr Rodríguez. Because still in February 2018 Mrs Nava Castro appeared in the 6th Commission of this Parliament, and this Member asked her about this issue and said it was a matter of weeks. Man yes! weeks are. We could measure it in days, in hours and minutes, but it's over a year. So there are challenges for us that are still unattended. You talked timidly about tourist coordination at airports. I'd like to know what the proposal is going to bring to Galicia's board in that direction. There are other issues, such as professionalization, or the reinforcement of inspection. And we're also concerned about the economic impact. Now, for lack of time, I won't be able to come up with some of the issues that we think have a self-comprehensive reading and that I'll do on the next shift. But if there's a question I've also been concerned about your intervention and I invite you to correct it in the second. One of the concerns this country has is how to attract more foreign visitors, and to me it seems unheard of that it has not made a single reference to how Galicia will take into account the impact of Brexit on this issue. This is something that ESC itself, too, in its study of Brexit...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u181	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u182	...including with regard to tourism. And so then I'll try to talk a little bit about the economic impact on employment. We understand that if we take the picture of the prescribed period and of the current period, we really do not see a drastic increase, as you sell it in employment; and much less in the use of quality and time-correction — which is increasing. As I say, I'll deal with this on the final shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u183	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u184	It is simply — and I repeat, Mr President — that we ask you, Mr Rodríguez, to move a little less to base this country's tourist policy on the blow of smoke from bot smoking, the blow to be gaining weight in quantitative figures, and to bet on a qualitative, sustainable model, which places us internationally and does not convert tourism to the only link of the economy, but rather to an active part and which contributes to territorial rebalancing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u185	Thank you. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Pérez Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mr Counsellor, we socialists always recognize and will recognize that the tourism sector is today one of the most important economic activities for our community, as it contributes to creating many jobs and favours territorial rebalancing. Even so, tourism serves as a letter of presentation from our community to everyone. Tourism in Galicia has to make a qualitative, real and definitive leap to take advantage of the capacity and potential of our tourism resources. No one can doubt that it is a great engine of economic and social development in our community, generating jobs and creating wealth and well-being. The tourism sector has a major direct and indirect economic impact on the Greek society due to its cross-cutting nature, as it affects the entire economic fabric of the country. That's why we should bet on a development of tourism based on quality, differentiation and sustainability, something very difficult to achieve with these budgets, due to the lack of political commitment and the lack of strategic orientation of tourism that the Galician Union presents at the moment. The Council of Culture and Tourism — despite the importance it has of giving its own advice to tourism and culture — counts for 2019 with a consolidated total budget of just over EUR 144 million, representing only 1.2% of the total budgets of the Galician Union. These budgets are the lowest in all the Councils of Galicia. Budgets for the year 2019 compromise approximately EUR 64 million for tourism. If we compare them to data from 2009, those of that damn government that never did a good thing, we'll see there's been an 18% decrease in relative terms and it's dropped by 14 million euros in absolute terms. On the other hand, the 2019 tourism budgets with regard to those dedicated to Mr Feijóo's first government, we see that they are 19% lower, despite the increase for 2019 in relation to 2018. In addition, by deducting from the current budget area regular expenditure, such as administrative operation, we see that the budget is reduced to EUR 94 million available for non-regular expenditure. This is why, in our opinion, the Council has to address such important issues as the promotion of the Galician language, cultural activities in the country, the care of archives and museums, the protection and promotion of historical, artistic and cultural heritage, tourism — including here the Galician Tourism Agency — the City of Culture, with the works of the construction of the new building to be launched, and finally the promotion of Xacobeo as a star program. In short, despite the great relevance of the Government's attempt to grant to the next Xacobeo 2021, the budgets of those who have an area that must be central and relevant, such as tourism, are very small. They are much lower than expected, since they constitute a lower match than those used in the previous Jacob. It is undoubtedly a contradiction, and we urge the Council of Galicia to resolve it in order to meet the challenges facing the so-called board — such as modernization, the adaptation of the sector in the era of globalization, of the economy 4.0, with technological advances and the evolution of tourism and tourism — and not only towards the next year, but also to tourism in general and in the coming years. The aim must be — and it seems so — to achieve a new model of economic development in the tourism sector, more stable in the medium and long term and with a capacity to generate quality jobs without neglecting the times of weak cows. However, the budget count doesn't seem to accompany the target pursued. However, we see that their main expenditure is advertising and propaganda, which is necessary to promote certain tourism actions. However, it may well be argued their lack of transparency and that such campaigns are camouflaged, as it is customary to make Galician Union generalized, in the non-material investment sections. For example, in 2018 only the localised auctions in advertising campaigns and carried out by the Galician Tourism Agency amounted to about 10 million euros. The balance of success last year 2018 reveals that, after years of growth in relation to the number of tourists that Galicia received, we are in a period of descent, which will probably continue until the year Xacobeo if they do not pay enough attention. The number of tourists who came to Galicia decreased by 6.8% compared to 2017. In addition, if we compare this figure to the set of travellers who visited Spain during 2018, we see a clear contrasting dynamic, since the 6.8% downturn in Galicia is confronted with the 1% increase in the national set. The so-called negative behavior in relation to tourist demand was also reflected in the volume of nights, with a decrease of 4.1%, the second highest descent of the national set, only behind the Canary Islands and far from the 0.8% decrease at the state level. This situation shows that something is not being done well when the difference between the state average and other autonomous communities of similar profile — such as those included in the brand "Green Spain", Basque Country and Cantabria, which experienced a growth of 3.9 % and 5% respectively in relation to 2017 — is so high. In short, the number of overnight stays in Galicia represents only 2,2 % of the national total. Well, it's true they're not all the negative indicators. For example, the average stay improved over the previous year by 2.7%. According to data from the National Institute of Statistics itself, the volume of tourism was distributed in a very unequal way, both in number of travellers throughout the year and in number of travellers around the territory. Even though green shoots are seen in the months of May, June, July, August and September, central summer months, Galicia welcomes almost 60% of its tourism, between travellers and overnight stays — a 5% higher than the total of the state — and distributes it throughout the territory in a very unequal way, concentrated between A Coruña and Pontevedra, with about 80%. With this, you can see the disillusionment with which you are trying to diversify tourism in other provinces, such as Lugo and Ourense, who are feeling abandoned despite their immense landscape, historical and cultural heritage. This demonstrates the failure to implement the deseasonalisation and diversification of tourism. As for Jacobobeo 2021, it is undeniable that this is a challenge and an opportunity for Galicia. And that's why in your previous appearance, in November 2018, you talked about the ten ways to develop our culture and our tourism, and that the third way was sustainability. And on this third path, many of the Council's actions have a reference date, the year 2021, but never understood this date as a final point but as a point and then followed. That's what you literally said. As far as that point is concerned, Jacobo 2021 we're sure it'll be all right. However, in order to get better, we must bet on sustainable initiatives and projects that enhance the mobility and accessibility of tourist spaces in the preparation of transport infrastructures and services for the important events around the corner. However, referring to this, on March 9, a newspaper published the news that Galicia lost nine international routes in the summer season, although we won some national. But it's not a question of losing international routes to win nationals. We have to keep them and make the most of them. We also thank you for your commitment to this strategic plan being forwarded to the House before your approval by the board of directors and not to the 2020 tourism strategy. Thirdly, I would like to talk about the Santiago Road Director Plan, which according to Junta will provide a management tool for the Galician Union and a roadmap that will mark the guidelines to promote the conservation and protection of the Way in our community. This plan has four goals, five challenges and four development axes, with its strategic lines.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u187	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u188	And each strategic line agglutinates several priority action plans for the 2021 horizon. It's over now, President. But we see that the Board, in relation to the execution indicators that contain these strategic lines, has done nothing so far, so we cannot value compliance or non-compliance with this plan. That's why we urge you to provide us with the execution data of what's available. What have you done to the Board so far, Counselor? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. Pérez Seco. On behalf of the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Chao Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u190	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. We want to begin with a previous consideration—necessary though repeated—: the mix of tourism and culture competences is, in our view, a mistake, a whole statement of intentions which we have come to pursue on the line, which we have seen denouncing, of the mercantillization and spectacularization of the culture and of the heritage, a submission of heritage and culture to tourist interests, business interests; a addition more and more without stopping thinking about the consequences. That this had specifically coincided with the planning of Xacobeo is a more -- like its intervention -- than there is no more plan for Galician tourism than to bring more and more pilgrims and pilgrims, more and more visitors. Counsellor, we have heard him speak of figures — what he said, more and more — but nothing of sustainability, nothing of social responsibility either; two concepts which, in our understanding, should allow us to work on a differentiated and distanced model of social and labour precariousness that is imposed every day. It is necessary to reflect on new tourist formulas focused more on the qualitative aspect than on the quantitative aspect, on a model that is not bread for today and hunger for tomorrow, a model of the future, sustainable, that guarantees the care of cultural and natural heritage. And this is not always guaranteed, quite the opposite. He spoke in his intervention of the resources to be devoted to the conservation of Santiago's roads. And it's all right, it's necessary, it's urgent to put resources for proper conservation. But the reality — as we have said on numerous occasions in this House — is that the interventions of the Galician Tourism Agency on the roads are not being respected by the heritage. On the contrary, they're leaving very serious footprints very important about it. Counselor, will you invest these resources in asphalting Santiago's Way, continuing to throw asphalt on the roads of the Way? Understand the question. They worry about them, because they're many examples without changing their posture. And another question: will you correct your position on the Touro-O Pino megaminery project? We have to talk about this when we talk about Santiago's Way. Notice that we insist because, as we have already reported on his day, Icomos' report confirmed that the Way could be facing the greatest attack in his history. The document warns that the megaminery project involves a clear violation of the protection regulations, which not only invades the environment but also involves material destruction from its layout. Icomos is clear and powerful. If their exceptional values were lost, the Way could be excluded from the list of world heritage and UNESCO. This would be quite a novelty for Galician tourism. However, the Union continues to defend the megaministry project. Between defending our heritage and defending the private interests of a mining company, you're always on the same side. So, how does the Government expect us to trust in their ability to manage the Jacobean year if they don't even commit to ensuring the integrity of the Way itself. Their attitude and decisions leave little room for optimism. But let's go back to the numbers. According to the National Institute of Statistics, you referred to that in 2017 more than 5 million visited Galicia. In 2018 the figures decreased slightly, from 5.1 million visitors to 4.8 according to INE data. The Board interpreted this slight regression as a cycle end, and which, in our view, could have a positive aspect. Now that the numbers stop, would it be possible for the German Government to agree to speak for the end of the quality of tourism and not focus solely on weight? Is it possible that we can now debate about the need to deseat and decentralise tourism in order to encourage the whole of our territory and not just a lot of privileged cities and villages? Is it possible to speak of the benefits of responsible and sustainable tourism in order to reach the Italian countryside, so mistreated by the current policies of the Galician Union? It would be the way that, to our understanding, would help us. If we talk about tourism — and especially in the light of your intervention, I said it before — we have to talk about Jacob, which was basically the only thing you spoke about. It seems that it is the only thing that matters — this and the camels, as far as we can see —. Next holy year will define what is the tourist model the Government wants for Galicia, and this concerns us. They worry about us because the background isn't clear and there doesn't seem to be any willingness to amend them. On the contrary, you've almost finished making a panexyric of The Way Sound, the first great festival of the Xacobeo. The Way Sound festival, in our view, is precisely the paradigmatic example of politics and the priorities of the Galician Union. Resources for festivals throughout Galicia, EUR 250,000; resources for a macrofestival, destined to finger, some less than EUR 3 million. For culture there is never; for tourism, whatever it takes. And it was not only the "song" but the "how" -- I said now. With the object of celebrating the first edition of the music festival, the Government directly, as a patronage, helped almost three million euros into a temporary union of companies that had only two months of life. That's how the People's Party does things. Is this the criterion that guides the hirings that have to do with the Xacobeo? We'd like to be optimistic, but the background doesn't invite that. Speaking of tourism, speaking of the Year of Xacobeo, we would also have to discuss how it will affect the whole of the German social fabric, and not only the companies around the People's Party. The Xacobeo Year is, without doubt, an important opportunity, but it can also be a risk that consolidates very detrimental business models for citizenship. Social responsibility — I told you — Over the past few years, several tourist housing companies such as Airbnb have settled in our territory. In 2018, Junta reported that it had registered nearly 4,630 tourist dwellings. One year later the figure is almost 7,500, an increase of 62%. At that time, the available rooms increased by 36%; and the total number of squares, by 78%, reaching 21,270. However, and as you know, we should assume that the actual figure of tourist use is much higher, because simply — as we have already commented in this House — more than four times the number of tourist apartments registered by the board. The proliferation of tourist dwellings is one of the problems associated with tourism that most concern citizenship, not for any reason, because they are feeding a very harmful real estate bubble to the whole of citizenship and to the future of the country. The wealth of rental prices is driving out the population of the city centers, transforming what should be residential uses into tourist uses; and basic services, into souvenir shops. It is a real problem and of what you in your intervention said absolutely nothing, a real problem with which today the Council of Galicia has only denied it irresponsiblely and said no. Not always the best place to visit is the best place to live, Mr. Rodríguez. It's not if people can't afford their homes. The tourist apartments have, in addition, another water that we have already pointed out, which is the money stolen from the public archives. Do you really, Counsellor, come to this House and talk about tourism and not spend a minute on this issue? I asked him several times and we had no answer. We insist, when will the Government of Galicia seriously take the proliferation of illegal tourist floors? When will you acknowledge that your decree is not being sufficient to address this problem, nor to slow down the tourism of the city centers? I ask you, will you do anything to regulate the activity that punishes citizenship — unable to meet the rent prices — and the companies that fulfill their tax obligations? Do you intend to do something to ensure that Xacobeo doesn't consolidate the tourist apartments in this country by looking to the other side? Do you understand that uncontrolled tourism can affect local businesses? It doesn't seem so, quite the opposite. The government of Nuñez Feijóo had so far no answer to these questions. Nor does it seem that this concerns them too much, because for the People's Party housing is nothing more than a good one — one of so many — with which to speculate and do business. And to talk about tourism, Mr. Counsellor, of course, should also involve talking about the working model. Counselor, you've come up here proudly with the figures, with many thousands of contracts in the sector. But you know what he didn't say? He didn't say anything about how many contracts these are temporary, how many have wages of misery, how many consolidate every day an unbearable model of precariousness. You spoke almost forty minutes and did not devote one second to the kellys, neither to the waitresses, nor to the cleaners, nothing to the workers and workers of the sector. That is the essential part of reality, an essential part of the debate, if we want to talk about the country's tourism model. The reality is that nearly 3,000 women work in Galicia cleaning hotels, pensions or hostels that get 2.5 euros an hour. About 50,000 people love the unions that work in the sector with great precaution. I wish in his replica I had some words for them. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u191	Thank you very much, Mrs Chao. You have the floor by the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Romero Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u192	Well, thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. Good afternoon, Counsellor, welcome to this plenary to come up, on your own request, to talk about a sector as important to Galicia as the tourism sector; a strategic sector for our economy and our society, which in recent years has provided us with historical record data on all parameters, providing positive results both for the creation of wealth, employment and even for the creation of new companies that contribute to increasing tax collection, which is ultimately the one that feeds the welfare state. With President Feijóo's governments, tourism has ceased to be a pending account to become a source of return for Galicia, and thus reflects the last study on the tourist impact on the Greek economy, carried out by Exceltur, referred to in 2017. This study concluded that, for every million euros invested from public authorities in tourism, they collect more than twice as much, getting a return of 2.6. In practice it was EUR 520 million intended for this purpose, but it was EUR 1.363 million obtained through taxes linked to this activity. Exceltur also highlighted the good evolution of the level of work, increasing jobs linked to tourism at an annual rate of 7%. The study by Exceltur also highlights the indirect impact. For every 100 euros devoted to tourism, 49.3 were generated in other sectors. In the same way, for every 100 jobs created directly, another 40 were created in tourism-dependent sectors. Why is there phobia in this House? I don't understand. I don't understand. This study confirms that Greek is a quality tourism, which has great potential, and which needs public and private investment to move forward. And in this line is where you've been working all these years, with very clear roadmaps. It was previously the comprehensive tourism plan — up to 2017 — and from 2017 with the Galicia 2020 tourism strategy. These are plans that followed a roadmap, which are not how many sera and that are fulfilling all goals and their expectations. And if we're today a more competitive, more modern and more professional destination, it's thanks to public-private collaboration in this strategy. The tourism evolution in the last lustro, Counselor, leaves a very positive balance, looks where you look, compares with what you compare, with the level of the state, with other autonomys... it's positive everywhere. And it was hard to imagine at the beginning of the decade, because it wasn't easy to do it, because we lived a period marked by the absence of holy years, which traditionally marked the pace of tourism activity in Galicia. It's an advance that shows that Galicia was right when it decided that its tourist model goes through differentiation from excellence, from tranquility and from authenticity. It's a responsible tourism model that gives local communities the lead by taking advantage of their best own resources, with the objective of achieving the social, economic and cultural benefits of tourism to more Greek, especially in rural areas. And this is contributing to our main product, our star product: the Way of Santiago. As concluded by the study of the socio-economic impact of the Roads carried out by the University of Santiago de Compostela — a report that we who are part of the Commission 6 should know, since the director has come to present it — all the municipalities for which it passes consider it a source of wealth and well-being that contributes to fixing population in their territories. Ask Triacastela if you see that you don't know about this study, or you don't care — because, of course, how you don't like the Way and you don't like the Xacobeo, because you don't listen to the study. Mrs. Presas spoke seven minutes to defuse the Xacobeo and the Way; and three, of the rest of the tourist issues — just the opposite of what I'm going to do. The model of the BNG we already know, Mrs. Presas, that was Willy Fog's, four days traveling around the world and a resting in the office — it's a pity Mr. Bará isn't, I'm sure he would. The tourist spends more time in Galicia, spends more, increases hotel rates and improves profitability. The time spent in Galicia has grown this past year by about 3%, while in the state as a whole the stay of tourists has fallen by 1.8 percent. The level of spending for domestic tourists, national tourists and international tourists has also increased by 8.4%, by 1.7% and by 3.8% respectively. The hotel sector has improved its rates by 2.3%, to the highest figure of the decade, and even the profitability and average income per room has increased by 2.8% compared to 1.6% state. Ladies and gentlemen, every time we talked about tourism, the opposition accused us of the low profitability of companies. Well, profitability, thanks to government policies Feijóo, is improving. And all the parameters, everyone, look where you look, too. If we talk about destabilization, one of the major priorities, along with the diversification of supply, data show again that policies are working, as the average and low season is increasingly relevant. In particular, the low season grew by 8.2%, after the highest income was given in the autumn and winter months. This has meant that the average and low season is 63.4% of the demand, compared to 36.6% of the high season. What are you accusing us of, Mr. Pérez Seco? Nearly 65% of tourists arriving, arrive in average or low season. This implies that 6 out of every 10 tourists visiting Galicia are doing so outside of the central summer months. And for the BNG this is a shy destabilization. Ben! The specialized tourist products bet helps in making a more attractive offer out of high times. Galicia has enough ingredients to move forward in this direction, with a bet for thermalism, enoturism, active tourism, sport, of nature, nautical tourism, a gastronomy that is changing throughout the year and a rural tourism that has increased by 68% in this last luxury — hence, we consider, Counsellor, very close to the next rural tourism strategy that has just announced to us, because it is necessary to boost this type of tourism — and congress tourism; all of them with consolidated tourist products. Even concert and leisure tourism is promoting Galicia, as more and more people decide where to go on a bridge or on a weekend depending on what concerts there are. Here's the success of The Way Sound, with an important economic reversal to Galicia, because with regard to the Marisquiño, they talk a lot about the economic reversal, but with the Way Sound, for now, I haven't heard them say anything. Together with the new products presented in Fitur, they offer unique experiences throughout the year, which will undoubtedly help to continue on the path of destabilization of demand and diversification of flows. Thanks to the effort of the tourism sector, which is today more modern and professional than ever before, we are today a much more competitive destination. For us the most important balance is what the sector itself does, which is constantly transmitting to us its satisfaction and its willingness to continue to improve and grow, working together with the Government—so they let us know when we go to Fitur—because they trust the Government, Counsellor, and this is the best possible balance. We are not buyers, we are optimistic to face a future, a future in which the lines that we have just presented, such as the Plan for the Improvement of Tourist Housing, the Galician Strategy, the Rural Tourism Strategy and the Xacobeo 2021 — understood in Galicia as a great, fundamental event, with a great deal of involvement, except those of the BNG, and with strong investments — will contribute to addressing the great challenges we have ahead. And, Mrs. Chao, I can't afford to pass on the allusion he made to the holiday homes. You have not wanted to regulate them — in the past legislation, you have voted against regulating tourist dwellings — and now they want the total ban. In Galicia there is no proliferation of this kind of tourist accommodation because we have good regulation, fully backed by justice, which provides a security framework, fights unfair competition and contributes to bringing money to public buildings. On the other hand, the Tourism Inspectorate is already checking that the period of operation coincides with that declared in the register, and controls the internet marketing platforms to detect situations of professional intrusion in this area. And this 2018...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u193	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u194	...fixes the inspection throughout the year and reaches 100 percent of tourist housing. On the next move. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u195	Thank you very much, Mrs. Romero. Mr. Rodríguez González has the floor, for the replica round, the Councillor for Culture and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Presas, you started by saying that you liked music, not the lyrics, of my intervention. Well, we've moved on. If you like music, I'll try to prove that you don't understand the lyrics well. Because really music and lyrics are perfectly compatible and perfectly organized to make a good product. Look, you said we were doing advertising and propaganda here. But I'm going to tell you one thing: this government works with peaks, but above all it works with pa, it works with beaks and pa, and, look, in the previous appearance, about five months ago, we presented some strategic lines, some plans. And today we've brought results. For example, from Plan MAT — which you sounded a little strange at the time — we have already launched two actions, with an investment of EUR 4 million, which are geared towards improving tourist facilities, tourist infrastructures; which has a very direct impact on the quality of establishments, a very direct impact on sustainability and a direct impact on job creation capacity. Galicia knows, I've already told you, we'll present it at the board of directors and we'll go to final actions, which will soon be presented. And, of course, there's a question you put on the table. Of course, you plant it like we're not working on the future. And it's just the other way around. Every work that is planned is done with a temporary horizon, designing a tourist and country model to which we want to reach. And, obviously, in our area, in an activity so linked to the dynamics of the environment where a country or territory is, is fundamental to the situation and macro-tensions that exist worldwide; for example, Brexit, which you have pointed out, or the opening up of what might be the tourism markets in Southeast Asia or North Africa, where it hasn't been hard for many years before. With which, all of this must be kept in mind, and it must be taken into account. In any case, I'm grateful that you pretended to have the positive data in the sector, which is very and very important. You're talking about destabilization. More and more Greek tourism walks towards a deseasonalization than visitors are. You talk about internationalization, and more and more foreigners are coming. Without going further, on the product, if you want, the star, which is the Way of Santiago, around 60% of the walkers, the pilgrims, come from more than 180 countries, 60%. And 60% of ordinary tourists -- to say it simply -- come out of summertime. If you compare this data to seven, eight or ten years ago, you'll see that there's a radical change. And this isn't spontaneous. Obviously, the main merit is the sector and the good public-private collaboration policy that exists with the sector. But something will have to do with policies promoted from the Galician Union to enhance, disseminate, promote and sell different products off-season — some of which you advocate but in a joke way — and which are basically oriented to destabilize tourism throughout the year. And we're seeing that the months where tourism activity grows the most is in the months outside the summer season. Obviously, you speak of a term that I don't like: the monoculture of the Way of Santiago. I think it's a real banalization, because it does not take into account the very important role, from the point of view of territorial rebalancing and territorial cohesion, which is the way of Santiago. Apart from that, there's a contradiction in his own speech, because he says it doesn't affect Lugo or Ourense. Ourense is the province in the Via da Plata which has more miles of Santiago Way; and Lugo has the main roads, the French Way and the Northern Way, most of the sections that are declared the heritage of humanity. There's a certain contradiction in his speech. And he says it has no economic impact. I suppose it will be an unproven perception and not quantified with data. I recommend to their lords that they travel to Triacastela, Portomarin or many other municipalities and see what these municipalities are and imagine what they would be if there had not been Santiago's Way. And that's not what I'm saying, I'm not saying, this is a university study by the USC, done by the Idega, that demonstrates the importance, both at the demographic and economic level, that it has the Way as an element and as a strategy of territorial balance. To deny this evidence is a real banalization. As it is trivialization not to say that there is a bet determined by the heritage, by the restoration of cultural heritage. In Santiago's cathedral, I think it's indisputable and indisputable, but also in the BIC set that exist through the Way. Moreover, a plan of BIC of the Santiago Way for his rehabilitation was presented at the moment. The Minister of Culture committed his support — about 100 million — to rehabilitate the BICs of the Santiago Way, which are many. The Galician Union is making a remarkable effort in this matter and we hope that the State Government can do it, too, because we are facing a country project and a project whose importance transcends Galicia. In the area of road safety, Mrs Presas, we agreed. It's vital, it's fundamental, it's basic to give safety to the walker. In fact, we haven't met for a long time at the Security Bureau with the Government Delegation, and with all the members who are at that table. And there we put on the table a series of basic actions that are fundamental to ensuring security. One of the basic elements for pilgrims is the demand for security. And there the Government of the State, fundamentally — because the national roads, highways or highways are the ones that generate greater conflicts or friction points with the walkers — has the responsibility to implement the relevant measures to ensure that the safety of the walker is 100 percent. I also thank you for your position with regard to the Strategic Plan. And, obviously — we have told you — there is a debate table — in which you participate — that you are confident that you will be able to involve and attract opposition groups with positive measures that can be implemented and that they can contribute to making this document a document for all. I've already expressed my intention to bring him into this House. But the truth is, on the one hand, I see an excessive banalization and an excessive vulgarization, in their interpretation, of the strategic role of tourism, on the one hand — and the Way of Santiago, of course — and the use — if I may — of adjectives I think that little respect for the importance of tourism in the country: "the botafumer", "weight walkers", "the list of purchases"... I think they are descriptions or qualifications that really vulgarize and trivialize what you explain. [[Murmurs.]] And, obviously, if something has done this Government — and you can read the Galician Tourism Strategy — is to bet on diversification in the broad sense of the word. One government has never wagered so much for diversification in tourism — by the way, with results we believe more than remarkable —. And really, Mrs. Presas, I can't ask you more than trust, trust yourself, not as holy Thomas, don't want you to put your finger in the strike, trust yourself. Because, look, at the previous appearance some ads were made and you were suspicious of those ads. Six months later, some of these ads we've already brought to this House with data and reality. For example, at the time it was defined as propaganda, or as a wrong strategy, "Your Xacobeo." I just brought the data to this House and, of course, no criticism on your part. Fortunately, the results at the end make the words banal and the words with little weight take them to the wind. With regard to the Socialist Party, Mr Pérez Seco, I also appreciate the concordance we have in recognizing the importance of tourism as a key economic sector in the creation of wealth, job creation, territorial balance and, I would also say, in the creation of a proud, proud country. And there has certainly been a fundamental qualitative leap in recent years, with an increasingly important cross-cutting importance of tourism: more quality, more sustainability, more internationalization and more diversification. I think that's beyond a doubt, and I appreciate that you recognize it. There's a question we didn't agree on. You think of this debate as a budgetary debate and obviously transfers the data compared to 2009. He says there's less budget today than in 2009. You look at this: indeed, there is less budget; but, however, you look at both quantitative and qualitative variables that support the policies implemented, in this case, by the Council of Galicia. The results, with fewer resources, are more tourists, more international, more diversified, more wealth, more diversification, more territorial balance. Imagine what you could have done, what this Government could have done, if it had its resources. It really raises this quantitative debate without any kind of explanation because, in the end, they see how there were policies that had no results and that there are now policies that obviously have results; above all, in the tourist field, which is a tremendously cross-sectional activity and where there are lots of variables of very different kinds. For example, it is very clear in the field of the Way, because it is not only the budget shares of the Council of Culture and Tourism. There are budget splits in other councils directly oriented to promote and improve the Way. For example, in the environment, the parts of the integral rehabilitation areas for the path maps; or, in the field of infrastructure, all those games to improve access to the city of Santiago. These are splits that are in other areas but which directly affect the integral improvement of the territory and therefore the integral improvement of what is the Way of Santiago. There's a game where I think there's an interested reading of it, which is advertising. Obviously, the Tourism Agency has a very important publicity game, but there's Galicia's promotion. By way of example, these items are awarded in public tenders, by means of an entirely transparent public tender. And there are all the tourist promotion parties that this administration, like any other administration, executes — fundamentally in tourist destinations to attract tourists to Galicia. And, obviously, you are introducing a debate that I think is interesting, but that I think is perfectly resolved, which is the debate of quantity and quality. I think we have to bet on quality here. Now, you're suggesting in the negative that there is a slight decline in 2018 compared to 2017. The year 2018, despite this existing decline, is the second largest in our history, with parameters perfectly explained by both the sector and the administration. We would be very concerned if this slight decline were accompanied by a fall in qualitative, quality variables that give sense and profitability to a sector. There's more average stay in our tourist accommodation, there's more per night, there's more economic profitability, there's more deseasonation and there's more internationalization. All those variables that speak of quality are increased in the last year despite the fact that, in fact, there is a slightly lower number compared to 2017, which is the record year throughout our history. And I also sincerely appreciate your confidence when you say that Jacobobeo is going to be fine. I think it's not good for a government, it's not good for a political party. It's good for Galicia and it has to go well, there's no doubt about it. And like you, we worry about them the day after. The next day is the most important, and we agreed on the need to leave an orderly Galicia at the tourist level and a Galicia that can compete better in the following years. It is essential, as you said, that there be coordination of the large airport and railway systems, given that in 2020 the AVE will arrive in Galicia and will completely modify the large airport and railway flows. And we have to guarantee accessibility to the main tourist spaces. That's what I said, and we thought about it in the previous appearance. Obviously that measure has to be addressed by the State Government. We are not at the best moment, but, once the elections are over, the Government of the State has to get to work on this line together with the Autonomous Community, with a technical vision, a country vision and a vision that allows Galicia to prepare for the major challenges: the arrival of AVE, the changes in the mobility of the population, both intra-autonomous and extra-autonomous, and the accessibility especially for the great tourist spaces, which are obviously our cities, are the Sacred Ribeira, are the areas of the Low Rhine, and there are others in which we have to favour there is an internal mobility that allows access to them. Mrs. Chao, the truth is that you have confused me — I tell you metaphorically. I didn't understand, after listening to you, whether it's good or bad that there's more tourists, more pilgrims, or that there's fewer tourists and less pilgrims. Because he criticized us because we made a quantitative speech, more tourists, more pilgrims, but, on the other hand, critics that there are fewer tourists and less pilgrims — less pilgrims, not, but less tourists compared to the previous year. So I don't know very well, I don't know very well. I know you're talking about sustainability. And, just with a data, I think your speech is losing some vigil. This year alone, EUR 18 million will be bided to improve road infrastructure — 1,250 kilometers —. That is absolutely sustainable, and the Way is being prepared not only for the present but for the future. You tell me that in the interventions on the Way of Santiago, he throws himself asphalt. Well, look, I'm going to tell you that all the interventions that take place on the Santiago Road by the Tourism Agency are backed up by reports from the General Heritage Directorate, absolutely all of them! And really questioning the reports of the General Directorate of Heritage — which are used to being tough, very rigorous — is certainly curious. You also tell me about the Touro mine. I've already answered a question in this House and answered the same thing: we have the greatest respect for Icomos, we have no doubt about it. Now, the action planned in this hypothetical mine is out of the scope of protection from the perspective of cultural heritage. The mine is neither in the trace nor in the buffer zone of Santiago Road. So you'll understand that, from a cultural heritage point of view, we don't have much to say in this area. Speak of quality. We've been talking for a long time and defending it. And when we talk about quality, we talk about greater deseatization, greater numbers of foreigners, greater diversification of supply, more products segmented in the market that make it possible for tourists to arrive with different vocations, with different demands, with different needs. All this contributes to quality. When we talk about quality, we talk about improving our tourist infrastructure. I planted it, we figured it out, with Plan MAT. We also speak of quality when there is a greater spread of tourism activity across the country, because it generates employment, generates wealth and is a stimulus to the most important development in rural areas of the country; where, unfortunately, in some of them perhaps the only stimulus for growth and development is tourism activity. He also criticized himself — as I said before — "Your Xacobeo." I've already put the results on the table. And, of course, it's also a little out of date in the data, both in the economic quantities that are dedicated to festivals and in the activities of The Way Sound. It's not the data you brought. And with regard to tourist dwellings, I think you have a wrong speech — quite frankly — a part talk. It's obvious it's a speech with a concrete perception, but I think it's a wrong perception. If any autonomous community has done something to regulate the dwellings of tourist use, it was of the pioneers to have a decree specialized in regulating this type of dwelling; I decree that, by the way, legal filters passed, both of those who proposed "non-tourist living" — none — as of those who said "free bar". And this decree is in the middle, it's an economic activity that exists, it has to be regulated, and it has to have a number of permits, both from neighbouring communities and from what the municipalities are. What we have to do is regulate it. And that's what we asked the state for. In fact, at the last meetings with the Ministry of Economics and Tourism, we called for state regulation to have a tax regime, a clear and fair tax regime, a work regime, basic consumer protection standards and a definition of economic activity. Why? Because we understand this is a regular activity. And there's a role for the municipalities, whether they authorize economic activity or not. And we have a responsibility for the self-government: we have to register and inspect this type of housing, always in favour of the user, respecting the user and defending the guarantees for the user himself of this type of housing. You also talk about employment and talk about precariousness and seasonalization. Indeed, tourism employment is very linked to seasonalization, and that's why our model, which progresses progressively towards destabilization, is in favour of a reduction in precariousness. Because greater destabilization is equal to lower precaution. With this, the more we progress in the deseasonation — and we are at 60% — there is a more stable job creation throughout the months of the year. Because, obviously, if there is that link. And I'll also tell you one thing: that in Galicia, tourism employees are around 75%, and in the whole value chain of activity there are good results, both for entrepreneurs -- it's been done that last year, only last year, there were 404 new tourist activities -- for businessmen themselves, who are having higher performances, as well as for their own workers, who, having a more seasonalized and more profitable model, have a greater ability or possibility to develop their job in a habitual way. And, to finish with, as far as he's told us, Galicia has spoken and is talking about gender equality criteria in certificates of tourist excellence. We're concerned about this and we're talking to professional floor waiters in this case, so that their claims can be, from a job standpoint, fair and in some way more stable in employment and, of course, greater wage capacity. It's something we're working on and we're implementing in quality certificates. In any case, I thank the three spokespersons for the tone of the interventions, it's always positive to be constructive. And, above all, I appreciate that you understand that tourism is a fundamental, cross-sectional economic activity for the country, but that is also part of our pride. And we Greeks must be proud to be an increasingly attractive destination not only for the set of Spaniards but also for the set of people who visit us from other countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u197	Thank you very much, Counselor. There's an opening of a special round of government double clarifications. You have the floor, on behalf of the BNG Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u198	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Romero, indeed, the model of the Galego Nationalist Block is to refer Galicia internationally, through the fairs of the book, as a country itself, with direct representation. I know you're looking forward to redeploying that great Igape party, those Cubans we've been talking about the other day in Commission 6th. But calm down, I hope, even though they spent 65,000 euros on that party, the 60,000 of Plan Xacobeo makes enough. [[Applause]] Yes, 4,000 in Cubans, not 65,000. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But well, finally!... Mr. Rodríguez, you have made it clear in the debate that we have quite different models. Because I understand the letter, believe me I understand it, I've been very careful. But I disagree that the peak and the bread that applies to Galician Union, at least, is in the same direction that we would defend from the BNG, that is, in all of what you say you're going to do. Because a lot of talk about MAT, a lot of talk about some matter, but little did, on its second turn, resolve some of the doubts that were presented since the opposition about plans that you repeatedly announce and that do not end or clarify for a while. And I ask again, see if I'm successful, because of that rural plan, where we have a special interest. Because I have the intuition that we're going to have enough close enough to do, because we have different models. In Galicia's tourism strategy itself, it provides for medium-time planning. The plan ends in 2020 and we're in 2019. A year ago they said it was in two weeks. Well, man, if that's not trivial, then of course it's not like you're not talking about the monoculture of Xacobeo, as we think you're doing. And I'm not saying that I can't contribute somehow to the territorial rebalancing. But, of course, more formulas and more transformative bets are needed for territorial rebalancing, because it realizes that, for the moment, it has not served for that. And you quote studies, and Mrs Romero also cited a study, which, with all cautions — if we have discussed it in the Commission and of course we have read it — is a partial study of one path. You know it, Mrs. Romero, perfectly. And we could talk about other studies. We can quote Martín Duque (2017), Andrade (2010), and there are in the scientific community different visions of what you are assuming or are not assuming the Way of Santiago. So it is not a debate that is exclusively within the political framework either, but we continue to miss new proposals and new bets. For example, by talking about the rural environment, by talking about the needs of balance, we, once again, bring questions to this House that concern us, as our country has only an average of 12% of the protected space. The state average is 27%, and we understand that our country would have the potential to protect more space and also promote tourism activities in it. And not only in Lugo and Ourense, but also on the Atlantic axis, protecting damaged spaces. Just by putting some proposals on the table, I wanted to make some reflection on the question of economic return on this second shift, because we disagree that everything is light and that everything is good news. We have taken a fact that a priori we can all interpret as a positive one: the number of travellers staying has increased considerably since 2009 — for having the picture of the whole decade — until the last year available has increased by 33%, in particular. There is this increase, and it could be expected that there would therefore be a correlated increase in the generation of economic impact, in the generation of employment. But the reality is that at all that happens, without entering into which these increases may be lower than those produced in the state, or in other matters. Let's see the occupation. Tourism has only increased since 2010. We are, in the last year, 19,000 people. In 2010 we were in 115,000. So we understand that this slight increase is evidence of a deepening of this temporality. The timeliness of the sector is very high, it's almost 40%, and more if we talk about women. Even if we talk about women between the ages of 16 and 30 who work, with secondary education, in the food and drink service sector, the rate of time is over 65%. So something's wrong with the equation. It's not every generation of wealth, it's not every improvement in the economic and labor framework. And, therefore, we understand that what we need to do is to look at the possibilities of turning that around, to the challenges that we have in the future. And, of course, for us the challenges don't pass exclusively on Santiago's Way. And it's not trivialization, it's a deep and serious political reflection on this issue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u199	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u200	So, once again, we have to tell the Galician board that, when they want to bet on an integral, cross-sectional planning and bet on diversification and disstationalization, we'll be there, Mr. Rodríguez, making proposals.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u201	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u202	But, of course, we won't buy him the self-comprehensiveness or the only commitment that Santiago's Way continues to be all. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u203	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Socialists' Parliamentary Group, Mr Pérez Seco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u204	Thank you, President. Counselor, by following where I finished my first intervention, on the master plan of the Santiago Way that corresponds, there are some executional data; and I was wondering and you didn't answer me. I don't know if you'll answer me now in the closing of your audience. It seems interesting to us to know that data. And if I didn't get it wrong, I think they made a contract from a consulting firm to find out about those performance rates. Because, as you well know, I, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, have raised a number of questions about the execution rates. And they answered me to just one. I asked which was the number of health incidences by way in the years 2015, 2016, 2017 and in the first half of 2018, and specified by municipalities and dates. And the response of the Board, so fast, is literally, "It's not possible to provide that information since the information systems of the Galician Health Service do not record if the person attended is a pilgrim. When this specific code is not available, it is not possible to facilitate the number of care taken over these same years." So my question is, why would we put that execution rate on the strategic road map? On the other hand, it has already been mentioned before all opposition groups took to the Commission 6 different initiatives in which we denounced the bad state, the shortcomings, different tranches of different paths. And in addition, the experience we have confirms that, if they were in perfect state of review, as you were saying in the first intervention, these roads, including shelters, routes, signs, etc., more visitors would have, they would pass through them and they wouldn't divert the roads through other alternative routes, as the spokesperson for the tide would say. Many examples of this are, therefore, the urbanizations of shoes, the alteration of historical itineraries, the bad or confusing signage in many stages, the maintenance of the cleaning of weeds — silvas, ortigos, etc. — because, if any path is not very transited, because after a year that road closes and people have to look for other alternative routes. The firm is also very unequal, which provides for the stumbles and falls of pilgrims, and there are accumulations of debris in some stages. And there's the number of hostels, which you've already talked about now being built. So, Counsellor, in Jacob 2021 and in the following years, on the various routes of the Way of Santiago, pilgrims make these routes for different motivations: the spiritual, those motivated by a singular experience, that of the pilgrims who only care about the cultural heritage or that of any other kind. But once she passes through Galicia through these roads, Junta would have to try to get all these, or the vast majority of them, back as tourists to spend more time and visit, obviously spending more time on her stay. And vice versa: that the knowledge of Xacobeo in Galicia that have other tourists, such as those who come to the sun and the beach, make them also spend part of their time visiting Santiago as a goal of the roads, but also any other municipality where there is any event of Xacobeo, thereby increasing its economic impact derived from the event. We believe that the scarcity of these synergies of cooperation that we find in the promotion of Xacobeo among all the actors who interact in their promotion and activities causes inefficient and uncoordinated actions to exist in many cases. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. Pérez Seco. You have the floor for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Chao Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u206	Counselor, anyway, if I were more careful, I'd understand better. He's used to passing. And, Mrs. Romero, phobia tourism, no. Criterion, we have criteria, we defend tourism but not to the weight, no more and no more. We defend tourism that is not only of quantity but also of quality, a tourism that contributes to strengthening our economy and serves to defend and claim our material and intangible heritage. And that also enables those towns and places that are being deserted because of the policies of the People's Party. Every year, 80 villages in Galicia are abandoned. According to the National Institute of Statistics, there are 2,028 villages that have no inhabitants. In many other peoples we find only one or two people, usually of advanced age; so we hope that abandonment will continue to grow over the next few years. A responsible tourism policy should not ignore this fact, but bear in mind it very much. Tourism cannot be just an opportunity for a few towns and cities at the same time as the rest of the country bleeds. That is why we are betting on moving forward towards a tourism that is unseasonated, decentralized and takes much account of rural areas. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. President, there's a constant noise...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u207	Please keep quiet! Please continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u208	But there is a fundamental issue that should also be the subject of any debate on tourism. Are we really facing a strategic sector for Galicia or not? You, Counselor, said yes, without doubt. But we believe that, before responding positively to this question, we would have to clarify whether we are faced with an activity capable of generating employment in both quantity and quality and at the same time induce it in other economic activities. So it happened historically with industry, automotive, naval, craft, fishing, slate, granite, alternative energies, etc. But that's not what happens to tourism, practically unable to generate indirect jobs. As a matter of fact, it can't be obvious that tourism in Galicia is very focused on summer months, with temporary contracts and very low wages. On the other hand, a very important part of the tourism that reaches this country is of backpack, of very short stays and with very low consumption. With these characteristics should we talk about the strategic sector? Before we give it up for granted, we would have to give a quiet debate. We think that tourism is an activity that should often be rethinked, both to avoid its harmful effects — to turn public spaces into a nightmare for residents, for example — by placing measures such as tourism taxes on the table, regulating the theme of apartments — systematically opposed to — as well as to optimising the economic benefits by seeking to increase resources and bet on improving working conditions. Truly quality tourism beyond the slogan; not elitist tourism, but quality tourism. And, not only do we say that, according to the opinion study on the impact of tourism in Galicia of the Union of Consumers of Galicia last year, 84% of the people surveyed consider that there are massive tourist destinations. 81.5 % says they are in favour of implementing measures to control the flow of tourists in certain areas of the country. It can be done and it must be done. The sector needs stricter regulation as regards the management of public spaces, the number and quality of establishments, the protection of historic areas and natural spaces and, of course, the conditions of employment. This counsellor isn't being done. We could talk about the Cyes, the Cathedrals beach, the Cebreiro or the Toxa's boiling water, by putting some of the most recent examples that have been carried out in the newspapers; some of the examples where you know well that "the most and most" is threatening to ruin everything. We need, Counselor, Dialogue and Joint Thought before we also establish on our land the monoculture tourism, which has shown such bad results in other territories. We have to start by questioning whether this is where we want to go, because, as I say, in places where it has been groundless, applauding the increase in figures, the desert that remains at the end is disastrous. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u209	Thank you very much, Mrs Chao. On behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Romero Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u210	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. Mrs. Chao, you accuse the counsellor of not listening. You didn't hear anything at all. He's still denying that we're getting a deseasonalization, constantly denying it, when he's given the data. It's impossible. As the counselor says, they always start from different premises, and it's impossible to have a serious debate. Of course we have different tourist models. Ours is convinced it's giving very good results. I don't even want to imagine what Galicia would be like if you were to rule in all these areas all these years. Touristly, nothing would have been done. Nothing was done nine months ago in the previous Xacobeo 2010, because they don't really believe in it. They don't believe in the Way, when it's precisely the Xacobeo and the Way that allows us to project into the world the 365 days of the year. All he did was change a logo, Mr. Counsellor, with the money he was supposed to introduce a logo that was already known worldwide, and on top of it plagiarizing him to the Confederation of Ourense Entrepreneurs, because it was very similar. Their policies would be directed to boost the quantity, not the quality, as this government does. Few sectors have changed both in the last decade and in the tourism sector. It's a lot of what's been done, but it's also a lot of what's left to be done. Many are the challenges you face in a changing global context. Clearly, we are facing a cycle change, we are attending a new stage in which the reactivation of Mediterranean destinations and their return to the global market with aggressive offers to try to recover the lost market does not benefit us. I remember how they linked precisely this loss of the Mediterranean markets to the success of the Government's tourism policies, not far from reality, because what changed, Your Honor, was Galicia's tourist model. Today is a model of quality, diverse, sustainable, competitive, unseasonated, peaceful, internationalized... but it is true that we have been able to take advantage of these circumstances because we have put into practice the right policies, and today we are in a better position to face these great challenges, with the arrival of high speed and the celebration of the Xacobeo. That's why we rejoice, Counselor, for this attendance. You didn't bring the tourist data to the House to boast of them. No, Counsellor, you have brought here the essential to achieve these results: planning, competitiveness, singularity, sustainability, balance, professionalism, quality, internationalization... We're told that we don't keep plans, that I'm wet paper. The strategic plan, the 2020 Tourism Strategy, the thermal plan, the Santiago Road Director Plan, the Santiago Road Accessibility Plan, is being implemented. It has just presented the Tourism Housing Improvement Plan, which directly affects quality and will boost the competitiveness of the sector, training and quality — especially in those companies and in those smaller establishments. And it should be borne in mind that these companies have implemented an equality or training plan, something we have come to claim in this House. That's why we applaud this plan, because it's going to improve accessibility and removal of architectural barriers, increase classification and raise its category, improve the air conditioning that allows energy saving, will allow the beauty of the contour and the renewal of furniture equipment. We also consider the "Galicia knows" strategy very correct to promote recognition, protection and dissemination of enogastronomic culture and position Galicia as a leading destination in international gastronomy. It will serve to promote sustainable tourism, based on local and seasonal products, and to enhance the landscape and people in our rural areas. And very linked to this will be the next Rural Tourism Plan, so that it will increase the tourist supply, create synergies with the primary sector and enhance our rural sector. And already regarding the organization of Jacob, Counselor, I think he said everything. So, I'm done, Mr. President. And I encourage you, Mr. Counsellor, to continue working on this line that has worked so well over the years, strengthening us as a more competitive and high-quality destination, which allows us to debut in 2019 by strengthening its deseasonation process, since hotel demand has grown in January almost two points, reaching the highest level of the last eleven years. There are more travelers who spend more time in Galicia, 1.7 % more, while in the rest of the state it drops by 1.4%. In parallel, hotel rates increased by 2.3 per cent in January, leading to hotel establishments improving levels of profitability. So again, the figures of the Greek tourism are good, look where you look. Counselor, continue like this, because of course we're going the right way. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u211	Thank you very much, Mrs. Romero. The Councillor for Culture and Tourism, Mr. Rodríguez González, has the duplicity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u212	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, Mrs Presas, we have different models of the Galician Nationalist Block and the People's Party, fortunately, I would say. Having different models is neither good nor bad in itself. But I think that, fortunately, Galicia has been betting for years on a model more similar to what it proposes and defends the People's Party. And I always have one question left, one question that I put to the air: what would happen in Galicia if they were implemented and we were ruling according to their models? It would really be very interesting to make a projection to see what would happen in Galicia if we were ruled over the last ten years by the Galician Nationalist Block. Of course, Galicia wouldn't look like anything today. And I think that this hypothetical image that we would have would, at least — as it were in a soft way — be quite sad and quite, to some extent, worrying. In any case, you're talking about the rural tourism plan. Don't worry about it at any time. In a very short time you'll come here, don't doubt it at any time. And I've already advanced a measure, and I've already made progress on the classification of accommodations based on quality service parameters for rationalization of scales based on the quality of the accommodation itself. Don't worry that, like these, there are many other measures that will make it possible to improve rural tourism in Galicia. Obviously, there's a lot left to do, there's a lot of work to do. Yes, it has improved considerably. I think it's undeniable the improvement Galicia has had in general, but particularly the one with tourism. There's certainly a lot left to do, there's a lot left to do about disstationalization, about profitability, about employment, very much. But it's also no less certain that it's very difficult to deny it. He said the spokesman of the Socialist Party that the pilgrims to a certain extent should be ambassadors from Galicia, to a certain extent. He said it with similar words. I think they are, and this is not just a perception that can be correct or that can be wrong. This is based on data, in this quantitative case, derived from a study that you did in this case to USC, which gives us some data that I think are very interesting. This data tells us that 98% of pilgrims recommend experience. Two out of three pilgrims intend to repeat, as well as pilgrims as visitors, tourists, and more than 75% of the Greeks very positively appreciate the presence of walkers. I think this is about a tremendously empathic product, a product of success. Obviously, I believe that Mrs Chao — with all due respect — lives in a virtual world. You make a speech, repeat it, and think it's true. Home!, destabilization could be stronger — and we work on it — but 60% of tourists arrive outside the summer period. It could be stronger, no doubt, but you do not deny me that the rate of destabilization of tourism in Galicia is very important. And, of course, you're talking about a "bag tourism" I think with a certainly demeaning tone, with a tone they lack about it, if I may, to the thousands of employees in the tourism sector in Galicia, both of businessmen and of self-employed people, and to the workers on the other hand. I think it's a bit demeaning to quantify the effort of so many professionals with that simple backpack. Because if you looked at the data and didn't talk about a serious speech, you'd realize that the qualitative variables that define Galicia's tourist model are greatly improving in recent years. Look, his backpack tourism had income in the last year around 300 million euros. With data closed in 2018, travellers and tourists visiting Galicia spend more than on average in Spain. Would you like them to spend more? Of course, but they spend more than in the middle of Spain. The average cost of domestic tourists has grown from 2017 to 9%. It has increased hotel profitability by 2.6% — i.e. the business profit, which is very positive for the profitability of economic activity. The average tourist stay grew by 3%, exceeding the Spanish trend. And as I've already told you, travelers and tourists spend more on Galicia than on the middle of Spain. That's what you define as backpack tourism. Finally, you also say that tourism should be regulated. In some respects yes, but it doesn't seem to know that in the case of the Cyes or in the case of the Cathedrals, which you literally quoted, there already exists an access regulation system. You said you should. It's done, it's done, and I'm telling you for your peace of mind. But, in any case, and already to finish, Mr President, I think there are issues that are difficult to understand, because they criticize us for one thing and criticize us for the contrary. They're frankly very hard to understand for themselves. We saw here a balance, a balance of facts, a positive balance, and above all a balance that somehow places tourism, and also everything that has to do with Santiago's Way, on one of Galicia's economic and social strategic axes. And it also gives the feeling that there is a confusing speech, because on the one hand they criticize that there are many tourists, many pilgrims, and on the other hand they criticize that there are not many pilgrims or that there are not many tourists. It's a truly contradictory speech and, at least, curious. In any case, we have a tourist model, we know what we want, we've made a lot of progress in recent years. We count on the 2020 tourism strategy, which has been strengthened in recent years. We take and present new lines of work, the Plan MAT, the new rural tourism plan that will be launched, the strategy "Galicia knows." We have a quiet model, which is based on natural resources, cultural resources, gastronomy, which is responsible, which generates wealth, jobs in the territory, and is also committed, committed to the territory, committed to the environment and committed to society. With which, really, there's a very remarkable, tremendously remarkable job in a very committed business sector with the country. We have a very good public-private collaboration, and we are also working and designing, with as much intensity as possible, the celebration of the new holy year, of the Xacobeo 2021, which we understand is a great opportunity for the country. In the end, ladies and gentlemen, what matters in good politics is the task, and leaving the country better than you found it. And I think in that sense, both at the general level and at the level of tourism activity, Galicia is doing so much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u213	Thank you very much, Counselor. Change in agenda development
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u214	We move on to the next point, which is a change in the agenda already communicated to the spokespersons, and we move on to interpellation 5.1. Interpellation by D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Da María de la Concepción Burgo López, G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the Government's criteria on the legislation of the
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u215	To make an inquiry, Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u216	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. Good afternoon, Counsellor of Culture and Tourism. The truth is, I don't know what would happen if the tourist model were the opposition groups, and I don't know -- and I'd rather not see myself on that stage -- what would happen if Mr. Casado were the next president of the Government of Spain. And that's what this interpellation is about, although obviously directed to the field of education. I also know that the Government responds in solidarity, and also, in your case, it responds with full knowledge of the substance of this inquiry. As you know, the Statute of Autonomy of Galicia, in its Article 31, determines that the regulation and the administration of education in all its scope, levels, degrees, modalities and specialties in the field of its competences is fully within this autonomous community. In September 2018 — last year — the President of the People's Party, Mr. Pablo Casado, advanced what the five foundations of his reformist project would be, which would be presented at the national convention of his party, including that the State should regain competence in education if some autonomous community did not act faithfully in this matter. And he literally said, "We can't live with the endogamy that an autonomy selects teachers in their language, because it's to support a system of indoctrination that goes against our children's own future." This deep thinker and analyst of the education system left, in addition to this, other pearls that I wanted to share with the honourable members of this House. For Pablo Casado, education is a developmental band of the whole nation — and we can agree there — and it has called for quality training. In particular, and at that time in Asturias, he attacked the current Government for deciding "where parents have to take their children by a postal code," simplification that strips the track. They were literary words of Mr. Married. When it says "Post code", I understand that it refers to the zoning necessary to arbitrate students' admission to public and concerted schools. He also said he was asking for a free and quality education so that Asturias' children aren't studying just harrows or fries. I suppose, if I made those statements in Galicia, I'd say "horrors and children." What happens is that it's also true that in the case of Galicia I wouldn't say it right now, because the People's Party is ruling in this autonomous community. I insist, it's deep reflections that necessarily illuminate the path towards highest quality education. But he didn't stay there. He said it was only necessary that there was no explanation in Spanish for materials such as gymnasium, labs, etc. Gymnasia! Would this man, this gentleman — sorry — be educated at some point in his life to know that gymnasium has been called "physical education" for more than forty years? Is that the message of this deep analyst that we have as the main leader of the opposition right now? [[Applause]] Gymnasia, hone them and fry them; hone them and kids. Deep! You will agree with me that this is worrying. But, well, the assertions like the previous ones call into question not only the ability of different self-governments to properly manage their competences in the field of education, but also to introduce their own language — from which communities, like our own, have it — as an element of social rupture. And this is the reality behind this speech. As we see, Mr. Pablo Casado's statements, which lead the People's Party, pose an unprecedented threat to autonomous communities in the educational field, among others. I know that you will tell me that in the last call of oppositions to published education last week, you maintain the same requirement of knowledge of the Greek language for those people who aspire to be teachers or teachers officials in this autonomous community. I know that. The problem is not what is being published right now, the problem is what can become of what is deduced, with not much analysis, from Mr. Casado's statements. But the problem is that the current reality of the People's Party puts us on a stage where rights that we considered to be unquestionable, realities that we considered out of any party debate, are back to camp as if they were an inquisitive order in political debate. And, in particular, the People's Party, Counsellor, is particularly sensitive to linguistic policies, as far as you can get a short-term voter. It didn't matter to break the language consensus that has already reached since President Fraga's governments on the Greek language and, in particular, on his transcendence in teaching. Mr. President of Galicia, Mr. Feijóo, said in May 2011: "We don't want a galley of resistance. We need an expansive Welshman to lead the multilingual project we're going through. We need our children to keep the language of their parents and grandparents so that it can also be one of the languages in which our grandchildren speak." Well, very well, "Galicia, Galicia, Galicia." Mr. Feijóo said, "We looked around and we found a lot of people who didn't want a language that was isolated but a language that united." I suppose that with that of "many people" he referred almost exclusively to the many, many, members of the Galicia Bilingual collective, the same collective that, when the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia set up the foundation of the famous Decree 79/2010, he reminded him — and I will quote the statements of Galicia Bilingual at that time, I will quote them quoted them, quote them by the source and quote them in the original language and, therefore, in Spanish—: "Galice Bilingual reminds Mr. Núñez Feijóo that he has agreed to the Presidency of the Union and has largely supported himself in the controversy raised by the decree adopted by the Bipartisan Government. At that time Mr. Feijóo promised..."—we quote textually—"that the language in which the subjects are given, which are those of the texts..."—this phrase is also to analyze, "trumpy subjects are those of the texts", that is, if they have texts they are trunks, in the end... well...— "...the ones of the teaching material, the most important ones, should be chosen by the parents; therefore in that first about registration we will ask them that question, and that question is linked to the government." [[Laughter]] Fortunately, the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia imposed some sense and removed all that part concerning which parents could choose the language in which their children were to be educated. "He says Mr Feijó that consultation with the parents of children on the mother tongue of their children will no longer be legally binding but will be decisive. Similarly, he claims that the decree will be amended to remove from the text the possibility that students may use the language of their choice orally and in writing. But, in line with that, he says he will ask the teachers for flexibility." End of the appointment, so, I close you eat. That's what Galicia Bilingue said. At that time — and I am not going to analyze now, because I have no time, the goodness that has brought this decree of plurilingualism to the use of Greek—it seemed that nothing would happen. And it's okay! We know the government has a plan. We don't know which one, but there's one, like the little ones. There's a plan! Let's see when they dig into it and let us know who it is. But Mr. Married very recently — these statements were of September 2018 — two weeks ago, he said he was going to present a language law, because he relegated his own languages to optional use and raised the Spanish to vehicle. "In full precipitates the PP leader has assured that this initiative is already being drafted in his electoral program in an expanding way to the entire state." So, if you get to Moncloa, the co-official languages would become a merit but not an exclusive requirement. And the problem is not whether we are talking about civil service — which is, of course, what it is! — the problem is that, according to his statements, he said he proclaimed the need to regulate the Spanish, on the basis of Article 3 of the Constitution, which states that all Spanish people have the duty to know it and the right to use it, in four areas: administrative, public employment, signage and education — teaching, Counsellor. Therefore, on the basis of this whole relationship of facts, which are properly documented, which I have not just invented, I ask you if you consider that statements such as those of Mr. Casado are acceptable, if you think the Greek Government that the existing conditions on knowledge of the language of the Greek language in the systems of access to the teaching public service are indispensable. I insist, I know that last week's call...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u217	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u218	Yes, I'm done, Mr. President. And I ask you if you think those statements are supposed to be some kind of indoctrination in the school population. I mean...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u219	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u220	...if you ask teachers and teachers to speak in English and to know him...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u221	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u222	...is indoctrination of students. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u223	Thank you very much. The Councillor for Culture and Tourism, Mr. Rodríguez González, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u224	Good afternoon again, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Álvarez, I see you very worried about Mr. Married, very concerned. And the truth is, before you answer your questions and tell you what the People's Party has to do, let me tell you, Your Honor, that your intervention — like choosing this initiative — seems to us very clumsy, very opportunistic, preventive or may become a bit out of date and melancholy — speak of Galicia Bilingue, speak of the year 2009 — and, if they spare me, meaningless. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Because you just recognized that a very few days ago a summons were approved for teaching squares in this country and, as I know, it didn't change anything at that time. And you say, "No, no, it's okay. With which let me see here a manifest political intent, a very clear use of education as an excuse to generate other debates, and a debate — if I may — artificial that is not in schools, is not in the houses of the Greeks and is not in Galicia. [[Applause]] On the contrary, we think that in Galicia the use of two languages is not in any case a problem, rather I would tell you that, on the contrary, we are a model. [[Murmurs.]] And we are a model of harmonic cohabitation, where they live in balance and freedom two languages, where they don't persecute anyone for speaking either of the two languages. [[Murmurs.]] And maybe in other autonomous bilingual communities, unfortunately, you can't say the same thing. [[Applause]] And that's what you have to consider when you try to generate an artificial debate with an intentional intent. Look, you know that Galicia's language model in education, applied to education, works perfectly. We're not going to talk about who broke the consensus in the fragusist period at the Standardization Plan level, of the Standardization Law. It doesn't make any sense, the Greeks have tried it many times, you know the Greeks all who broke, by the pressure of their partners, those consensus. [[Murmurs.]] Now, does this have a translation into the education system? Look, Galicia is the autonomous community of Spain where there is a greater knowledge of the co-official languages. The biggest one!, it's indisputable. And we are, within the scope of the Pisa reports, the autonomous community that has a reading level in the most important bilingual field. That speaks of coexistence and that speaks of the harmonic use of languages in our society. And, of course, you get here and try to twist the words of the president of the People's Party to create discord and generate a fictitious speech. Interestingly, you did not say a few words that Mr. Casado himself said about Galicia's linguistic model: that was a model for exporting to other autonomous communities where, unfortunately, it is not. You know how well I am that these expressions are intended for other autonomous communities. You, your party — I say "you" rhetorically — are sure that you are not in favour of the use of the language that is done in the Catalan educational model — I mean the Catalan language. I am sure you cannot be, as a representative of the Socialist Party, in favour of the Catalan educational model in the field of languages. And if he is, I'd like him to say it publicly. Because there is no bilingualism in that area but the language is used as an element of political confrontation. Used to split, used to separate. And I'm sure the Socialist Party can't endorse that perverse use of an identity sign and an element that must never be used to confront, which must serve clearly to unite and communicate with us, and, what's more serious, generating social cracks. And I think that, in that sense, it would be very interesting that our model, which is a model in balance — which guarantees full knowledge of the two co-official languages marked in the Statute, which respects the rights of both a person who wants to speak in Spanish and a person who wants to speak in Greek — if he is extrapolated to other areas where this is not so, because this favours coexistence, favors harmonic coexistence. I think that would be the best example we could give as Greeks, tell some parts of our territory how it can be done and how it can be done well, using both languages in harmony, in coexistence, in balance, with respect, to unite, never to separate and never to generate discrepancies. You ask me about the educational skills. An answer to a question of pervadance, of course, in Galicia we are going to comply with the law, the Constitution, the Statute, the different educational laws, the decree of plurilingualism. How are we not going to do that? We must achieve respect and application of the legal framework and, secondly, we must manage education according to our own peculiarities. And I'm going to tell you one thing: in Spain there is an educational system that is supportive -- it has been for many years -- that fosters territorial cohesion, where there is a general legal framework and a specific framework for each autonomous community that must, in some ways, apply it to the specificities of each territory. But it's also no less certain that there's a margin of improvement. And both the state and the autonomous communities could coordinate better and we could work better to reduce certain inequalities that exist in the education system, that exist and that cause inequalities in children and children, students. And that's the main problem we have to deal with. And by the way, the Socialist Party did a little favor to the education of this country, to the territorial and social cohesion of this country, when Pedro Sánchez arrived at the Government Chief of State broke the State Covenant for education. The breaking of the State Covenant for Education in an absolutely partisan way is a sambenito that will clearly hang on the Socialist Party for the inability to assume the existence of other models. They got them out of a simple pen. And I know many significant representatives of the Socialist Party who at that time felt ashamed of that measure. Because breaking the enormous collective effort that autonomous communities, of different parties, and also the state had done by the Education Pact was really something that will remain in the debt of the Socialist Party. And, of course, you're talking about indoctrination. Look, we'll never use either language or teaching as a tool for indoctrination. In other autonomous communities, unfortunately, it is done this way. It's also true that in Galicia at one time there was someone who wanted to put the three-year-olds singing the hymn. That's also something that's in somebody's debt, but we don't want indoctrination or taxation, what we want is... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u225	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u226	...convivion, tolerance...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u227	Quiet. Mr. Rivas, please. Quiet. You're not in the use of the word. [[Balbordo.]] Quiet. Here again another Member has been speaking and the rest has shut down, so now listen to the adviser and, if they do not agree, use parliamentary techniques to present initiatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u228	Well, that's our linguistic model and our educational model. And I can clearly tell you that it's a model that society demands as a positive one. We're not at one end or at the other end, we're at the center, where the vast majority of citizens, the Greeks and the Greeks understand that this is the model that makes sense. We have said this on many occasions: the People's Party, which has been the hegemonic force for many years, and will continue to be, and which best represents the democratic interests of the Greeks, is for a simple reason: because we want Galicia, but we also want Spain. We are Galeguists, absolutely Galeguists, but we don't give up being Spanish, we don't understand that they are contrasting realities, they're complementary realities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u229	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u230	And this is the majority feeling of the Greeks and that's what the People's Party reflects, and we defend the Greek because we speak in Greek; we do it. By the way, in the Socialist Party, some great leader is rarely heard in English.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u231	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u232	In a bad English yes, but you hardly hear him speak in English.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u233	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u234	And, as I said, our priority clearly is to keep the law and maintain a model...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u236	...educational language that has shown that guarantees success and, above all, guarantees...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u237	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u238	...equality and coexistence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u239	Thank you very much. Mr. Álvarez Martínez speaks on the replica round.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u240	Thank you again, President. Counsellor, it is absolutely unacceptable that the opposition should come to speak to Parliament on politics, where did you see it? [[Murmurs.]] You share a certain tendency to over-adjective with Mr. Casado, who, by the way, turned into trending topic the term "felon," because it must have been the term most sought after in Google those days to see what he was referring to. He just missed calling me tafur. But, well, nothing happens either. [[Murmurs.]] Listen, will you by any chance remember if any member of the current Government of Galician Union was protesting along with Galicia bilingual? Because, of course, if we have someone who manifests with Galicia Bilinguale and then is a prominent member of the Government, perhaps, in an induction flare, we are able to concatenate one thing with another. [[Applause]] I insist, you have to be very clumsy, cheaty and loud, but maybe there's a connection between Galicia Bilingual -- the year 2009 -- and what's going on right now. And look, Counselor: I haven't come here to talk about the present, I've come to talk about the future, I've come to talk about whether the Government of Galicia shares the statements of the president of the National People's Party, of Mr. Married; that's what I've come to ask. I know there's no change in the order of language regulations in Galicia right now. But do you share, because it is a certain risk if this man reaches the presidency of the Government at some point — or without coming to the presidency of the Government — that it is acceptable to put the language of an autonomous community as an element of confrontation? I mean, you've got to get in the way of these, be Catalans, Germans, Basques, so much of me! They have autonomous governments with the ability to decide; there are mechanisms and they have already begun if the deviation of the legal order makes it necessary to act in a certain way. But I'm not talking here about either the Constitution, or Article 155, or other things or intellects, I'm talking about concrete statements, an explicit intention made by this gentleman. You told me that the statements would be sent to an autonomous community that is not Galicia, which is a model and Western beacon of competition and coordination and I don't know how many more things — languages — for all of Spain and part of Western Europe and part of the civilized world as well. Great, great. It is because among all of us we came to this frame; it is also true that there was someone who broke it at a certain moment in a decree — I insist — that it was rejected, the difference of another who seemed to want to create three-year-old soldiers — as you seemed to give insight into its intervention, didn't you? — but that it wasn't travelled and had no problem in its implementation until you arrived — I insist — with some counselor speaking in favour. You talk to me about the PISA Report and tell me about knowledge of the English language. And why don't you tell me about the reports on the level of use of the Galician Academy or other bodies with which we can agree or not, in the sense that they can have some kind of political affair? But, in any case, there are academic institutions that have done studies that show, Counsellor, that the causes of the loss of linguistic and linguistic competition, especially among young people, is related to Decree 79/2010, of multilingualism, and that is an element of regression in the advances that have been experienced in the matter of Greek language. That's not worth it, is it only worth the positive? Don't you evaluate any of the negatives that cause that decree? Is that indifferent? Is it indifferent that someone is threatening us and saying that, if autonomous communities want to, they can also use their own language? They want it! Like, "they want to"? But what stage is this? It's a power: here we'll all speak Spanish yes or yes and, if they want, we'll speak another language. Those are the spirits who deduce from this lord's statements, and that's why I'm asking you; I'm not asking you for anything else. Look what I'm asking. You can, in your round of closure, criticize...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u241	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u242	...Pedro Sánchez, criticize the socialist government, criticize the state pact... one day we can talk, we can do a monograph and we can also talk about when Mrs. Cospedal, today politically defended, vetoed a pact with Mr. Gabilondo, at that time the Minister of Education, because there were elections. We can talk about everything you want. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u243	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u244	I've been talking about years, not months. Whenever we want to do a monograph on this subject.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u245	Thank you, thank you, Mr. Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u246	You dedicate yourself to -- I don't know -- insulting, but...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u247	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez, that's it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u248	...I insist: you have told me, if possible, the questions posed to you in the inquiry. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u249	Thank you very much. The Councillor for Culture and Tourism, Mr. Rodríguez González, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u250	Mr. Álvarez, you know perfectly well that neither you nor I have dedicated ourselves to insulting. I tell you to look forward, don't look at the past; take out that melancholy that's carried on. Do not speak of 2009, speak of the present; speak of why the Socialist Party of Pedro Sánchez broke the educational pact. [[Murmurs.]] Tell them sincerely and explain to many members of their party, absolutely disappointed, why the Socialist Party broke a pact that Spain was very important and very necessary, absolutely necessary. [[Laughter]] And look: the truth is you're trying to generate a debate -- as I said before -- that we think it's false and it doesn't shut up in the Greeks. Look: our language model — I repeat — is a success. There was, for many years, a situation of coexistence and consensus, and at a particular moment rachouse; you will know why they broke it, with which intentionality they broke it, but from there it was rebuilt with a decree that was difficult to get forward, but which allows what the education system has to do, which is to guarantee knowledge. And, fortunately, this decree guarantees virtually full knowledge, the greatest in history in the field of knowledge of the Greek in the population at school age. That's something you can't deny, and do it in harmony, do it in balance and do it respecting both languages. And, of course, you ask me two very specific questions: which we consider from the statements, I suppose Mr. Casado, which proposes the State's recovery of skills in education on the assumption that there is always a lack of loyalty, and they ask us about the existing conditions of knowledge of the Greek language. The second one I've already answered, and you've already said so: the public job offer is very clear and very accurate, and you know it perfectly. Now about the first one, and you're from the educational field as I am. We're not talking here about assumptions, we're not talking about what's going to happen, what's going to happen; here we're talking about realities and I'm asking you for your opinion as a member of the Socialist Party, whether you're in favour or against what I'm going to tell you next. Look: are you in favour of a particular case of an autonomous community — in Catalonia, because these statements are oriented towards Catalonia — around twenty teachers charged with incitement to hate in class? [[Murmurs.]] Do you agree? Will you agree that nine teachers were charged with pointing out students and students who were children of civilian guards? [[Murmurs.]] Does this act seem normal to you? Does it seem normal to be the teachers themselves who signal the children in a classroom for speaking one language or for speaking another? Does that sound normal? Does it seem normal in many centres — in more than 30 centres — to take minors without permission from any of the parents to political demonstrations? [[Mr. Rivas Cruz: Yes, my parents and I do live it. Yes, we live it.]] Here politics is done within parliaments, it's not done in the classroom, and that's a reproach I'll always make. Do you think it's normal -- part of it, they're on social networks -- some videos where some teachers are telling their students, are they teaching them to write a series of pre-school slogans? [[Murmurs.]] Are you in favor of that? Because the first question you ask is this, as you know perfectly well. There are hundreds — even hundreds — of complaints from parents and mothers who democratically want their children to be taught, in addition to the Catalan language, the Spanish language. These are statements that highlight and put on the table the importance of the Welsh educational model, a model in coexistence, a model in harmony, that does not generate friction and that we should export; we should make an effort to make them understand that our model is a positive model. [[Murmurs.]] And look, I think this line we've been keeping in recent years is positive for Galicia, because it doesn't generate friction, it doesn't generate intolerance, it generates coexistence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u251	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u252	...and earn respect, and that's what we have to put on the table. And if not, if we go into sterile debates, purely interested debates and debates about what would happen in the case of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u253	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u254	...we can end up seeing as something normal what I just described, which is really, tremendously serious. We must guarantee the rights...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u255	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u256	...of all the Greeks and all the Greeks to be spoken in the language I wish...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u257	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u258	...and we also have to ensure equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u259	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u260	And Galicia, fortunately — a second, Mr President — is a model of coexistence, and at the social level and at the educational level we should be proud that we are able to have an educational model...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u261	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u262	... stable, positive, that doesn't generate friction and that generates a lot of cohabitation in our centers and in our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u263	Thank you very much, Counselor, time is up. Let's move on to the next initiative. Non-law proposal from the Group... [[Mr. Fernández Leiceaga asks for the floor.]] Yes, tell me, Mr. Leicega, why do you want to use the word?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u264	Yes, according to Article 77.2. Counsellor indicated that singing the anthem was a sample of ideological indoctrination, and I would ask him to read article 1 of Galician Symbol Law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u265	He doesn't say anything about that 77.2. He says he can ask for the reading of rules or documents.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u266	Yes, yes. I ask you to read article 1 of the Galician Symbol Law; that's what I ask you to do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u267	All right. We continue, because it is up to the President of Parliament to decide whether it is appropriate to read an article asking for a Member or not. And in this case, I think it was very clear what they were all referring to. So we continue with the non-law proposal, if you agree. Well, if they're not, I'm sorry, because it's up to me to make the decision. [[Balbordo.]] No, that's what the regulation says. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I ask you to respect all Members and also the Presidency, so those acts that you do do do do do do not correspond to this House. No, they don't match this hemicycle. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You know what I mean; then, we'll leave him there. We moved on to the next non-law proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Alberto Pazos Couñago and eight other Members, on the request of the Government of Galicia to the Vigo Council to return to the consensus reached for the amendment of the Law of the Metropolitan Area of Vigo and the fulfilment of it, as well as the fulfilment of the convention signed on metropolitan transport ensuring the same rates for all users irrespective of their place of origin
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u268	This motion for a non-legislative amendment was tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Losada Álvarez; the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Bará Torres, and the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Mr Cal Ogang. [[(G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez, through his spokesman and in the light of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal.Amendment of amendment.The text of the resolution should be replaced by the following:"The Greek Parliament urges the Council of Galicia to:1. Promote the effective entry into force of the Vigo Metropolitan Area by withdrawing the contentious resource submitted by the Galician Union over its constitution, which I have assumed to be totally paralysed.2. To join the consensus between the rest of the political parties in the metropolitan area, which assume most of it's government, to develop its implementation.3. Respect their full autonomy with regard to the functions which by law is entrusted to the Vigo Metropolitan Area, without any kind of interference, interference, interference or pre-condition by the Autonomic Administration.4. That in the area of metropolitan transport, the Autonomous Administration shall bear the costs directly linked to its exclusive competence in this field.5. Facilitate access to metropolitan transport to Gondomar municipality, as has been repeatedly demanded, ending in its discriminatory treatment with this municipality.6. Establish the Vigo Metropolitan Area immediately after the municipal elections of the next month of May."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. Xosé Luis Bará Torres, through his spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal.Amendment of amendment.The text of the resolution must be replaced by the following: "The Parliament agrees to urge the Council of Galicia to resolve the discrepancies with the Vigo Council with regard to the agreement signed on 6 July 2016 for Vigo's integration into metropolitan transport, by the procedure referred to in clause 10 of the aforementioned Convention."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[G. P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr. Marcos Cal Ogang, through his spokesman and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, presented to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal.Amendment of amendment.The text of the resolution must be replaced by the following: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to, once constituted the new municipal governments of the Vigo metropolitan area, work in the search for a new agreement between the Self-Government and the Town Councils."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u269	To formulate the non-law proposition, Mr. Paz Couñago has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u270	Thank you very much, President. The truth is that I started the day talking about the Transition, and I really appreciate Mr. Álvarez's intervention, which also brought me back from those discussions of the Transition, when some distinguished socialists didn't have any trouble calling a government president "the Mississippi tafour", which would, of course, be intolerable if a candidate from the People's Party did. That's intolerable! That is intolerable because this is the sole power of the socialists, of course it is. [[Applause]] Anyway, as long as you continue to consider Mr. War socialist. Look, let's go to the subject that brought us here, because the truth is that it also allowed me to anticipate the matter. He went to hear of loudspeakers and I knew he was talking to me about the Vigo Metropolitan Area. On February 22, 2015, the Galician Union — representatives of the Galician Union — and the 14 municipalities of the district of Vigo reached a historic agreement to unlock the effective deployment of the Vigo Metropolitan Area, which was intended to be the first metropolitan area of Galicia. He did so by promoting the adoption of Law 14/2006, which amended Law 4/2012, of the Metropolitan Area of Vigo. A first law — to me a law that had many more advantages than disadvantages — that it was true that it had aroused controversy by adopting only the positive votes of the People's Party. But we have approved this second law after reaching an agreement which has been reflected in this brief document that will allow it to be read. He said the 14 Town Councils and the Galician Council "manifest that once the text is presented which collects the agreement on the terms of the amendment of Law 4/2012, of the Vigo Metropolitan Area, will begin its processing which will be conditioned to: 1. Presentation and approval of competent municipal or municipal bodies. 2. Complete agreement of the fourteen municipalities on the incorporation of the Vigo Council into the Galician Metropolitan Transport Plan, without this incorporation means no increase in the expected arrival, to the Galician Union or to the other municipalities, or limitation of any of the users." [[Mr. Pazos Couñago shows you a document to the members of the House.]] He added the last paragraph: "Once these conditions have been fulfilled, the procedure for amending the legal text for adoption by the Council of the Galician Council, and for subsequent referral to Parliament, will be initiated." Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is, despite what the Government itself said in a gesture of good faith, the Council of Galicia did not wait for these issues to be met and was anticipating the handling of this agreement from the good faith — as it said — to facilitate the arrival of the Metropolitan Area Law as soon as possible. The points have been fulfilled. First, in fact, the 14 Councils referred to the agreement to which I have just read out, in particular, in thirteen plenary agreements in thirteen municipalities, and in one — in Vigo — by an agreement of the Government's Board, because the Vigo Government decided that it was not necessary for the rest of the opposition groups to participate in this agreement. That agreement was settled in a law, a law that has been dealt with in this parliament and a law that, for those who have lost their mind, I must remind them of it, has been unanimously approved by the House. The difference from the previous one was unanimously approved by the House: each and every one of the parliamentarians who were part of this chamber was in favour of passing that law. In case there was any doubt, the Vigo Town Hall enthusiastically joined the passage of that law, only to see the photos of that day in the press, with a Knight exhibiting the victorious grape, because we finally managed to unlock the Vigo Metropolitan Area. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago shows you a document to the members of the House.]] An agreement which, for the first time, granted Vigo the capitality of an autonomous supramunicipal territorial entity — for the first time in its history — and an agreement broken by the institutional disloyalty of the mayor of Vigo, who was unable to comply with the agreements signed. Because, from the very moment when the agreement took place, Mr. Caballero has in no way made the consensus into imposition, to find excuses of all kinds to breach the agreement and to become the prototype of that politician who had defined Woody Allen: what finds a problem in every solution. That's what Mr. Knight does. First it was found that there were technical difficulties and was dizzy for months with which there was a programming problem for the cancelers. Of course, there was a problem with the cancelers: that I didn't want to comply with the agreement, which was the next step, to refuse to comply with the terms of the agreement I had signed days before. Some terms, by the way, that were exactly the same as those approved for the rest of Galicia, for all Galicia, lordships: The Pino, Touro, The Bath, Trazo, Boqueixón, Vedra, Orders, Pontedeume, Neda, Valdovino, Baleira, Friol, Hill... Finally, countless Greek councils participating in this agreement, including the cities of Coruña, Lugo, Santiago and, recently, of Ourense. Ladies and gentlemen, after this he gave a new lap of pig, which was the confrontation with the neighbours of the metropolitan area, establishing very clear differences: the price of the metropolitan ticket was 0.86 for the vigues and 1.32 for anyone who wasn't from Vigo. And by taking one more step, he started accusing the non-wigs of claiming to travel for free at the expense of the vigues, as if the users had not paid their ticket, as if they had been paid by the Vigo Town Hall. No, Your Honor, they pay the users. In the midst of all this talk of dispropositions, a shameful attempt — we all remember — on 1 December 2016, to force the constitution of the Vigo Metropolitan Area against the criterion of who legitimately presided over the constitutive session and against the reports of the Galician Consultative Council, which reported on the obligation to properly appoint two representatives of the municipalities of Gondomar and Moaña — who corresponded to the PP and granted them to other groups — and, in addition, on the necessary and essential effective incorporation, in a prior manner, of Vigo to metropolitan transport. This unprecedented situation of maximum abuse forced the various councils to seek protection in the courts, and these, in successive declarations of a precautionary nature, suspended the establishment of the area, in addition to preventing the Vigo Council from segregating access to transport subsidies according to the applicant's home. The mayor's response to these statements was surprising: first he abandoned the Galician Metropolitan Transport Plan without waiting for the final resolution, a curious approach by those who believe that he is assisted by legal reason, and the second — which is also very new in Vigo — was to blame Feijóo; this is what he loves. It's the socialist mode: if Justice doesn't give the reason, Justice is questioned; if the advisory bodies of the institutions don't give the reason, the advisory bodies are questioned, and if neither of these things is done with it, it's Feijóo's fault. This has been like this for a long time. Look, we've got enough examples, I'll put some of them: what do the courts say by judgment that the Cunquerier is free to pay IBI? "Chief insists he'll charge the IBI to the Helmet." [[Mr. Pazos Couñago shows you a document to the members of the House.]] What does justice say the Vigo Government can't make appointments to certain officials? "The Vigo Government will continue to appoint chief officials to the finger despite the sentence." [[Mr. Pazos Couñago shows you a document to the members of the House.]] Hey! Who accuses a concierge for a matter of hiring lights and so on? That's a matter, simply, of envy that they keep us from outside. And for desperate cases, we have the Feijóo clause. May I be paralyzed by the constitution of the Metropolitan Area? It's Feijóo's fault. If the case is very desperate, it must be increased. Is there a conviction for the plug of Mrs. Carmela Silva's sister-in-law at Vigo Town Hall? So it's already the fault of Feijóo and Rueda; here we have to add, because the fatter the ball, the more people we have to bring the collation. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago shows you a document to the members of the House.]] And of course, while all these things happen, one has to ask himself a question: what will happen when the final ruling on the Vigo Metropolitan Area and the Vigo Metropolitan Transport comes out? I think today we have to ask ourselves a question: what's going to happen then, are we going to abide by it or are we going to choose the Cerceda model, take the sentence to plenary and vote on it? If we say the sentence is fine, it's passed and if we don't, we don't listen. Socialist model! [[Applause]] The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that while these little things are going on, the Metropolitan Area is still stopping and the neighbours are deprived of the advantages that come from the creation of this metropolitan area. Metropolitan transport does not spread all its effects, which basically pay the vigues, who continue to bear the most expensive urban ticket in all Galicia and lose annual savings per family of up to a thousand euros. And in the meantime, the Town Hall continues to increase payments to the concessionaire.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u271	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u272	The latest increase of 1.6 million euros. A great deal for all the beams.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u273	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u274	We therefore — and I am finished, President — believe that the time has come to stop blaming those outside, to seek cheap excuses and to seek new consensus instead of meeting the old ones.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u275	Thank you very much, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u276	And, therefore, we ask that there be a minimum of reflection and that we can among all of you walk, definitely, the Vigo Metropolitan Area that are waiting so long for all the citizens in that area. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u277	Thank you very much. You have the floor by the BNG Parliamentary Group Mr Bará Torres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u278	Thank you, President. The truth is that it is quite pathetic that the People's Party has to come here, to Parliament's rostrum, to oppose the Vigo municipal government; it is really pathetic. And I don't know if the spokesperson for the People's Party came here to do merits to go on the next People's Party candidacy to the Vigo municipal elections, if he's doing merit; to see if Mrs. Muñoz hears it and gives him an opportunity there in the candidacy. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] This PNL is like polar bears: it's been hibernate. What's happening is that polar bears are about six months in hibernation, and this LNP has been two years. It was registered on 3/3/2017 and has already been discussed in this plenary session. The truth is, they have no expiry date for LNPs. And now, curiously now, just in March, rescues them from forgetfulness. I don't know why now, in March; I don't know if it's because March is two months before May and because there's about one date, which is May 26th, and that's why it reminded the People's Party to bring this debate here, in a clearly opportunistic and electoral way. This is absolutely obvious, because all they want with this debate is to try to rake up a few votes there, around the Vigo area, to see if they're convinced someone to vote for them in the neighborhoods. The opportunism and electoralism of this proposal is clear. [[Murmurs.]] We, in any case, want to take advantage of this debate to denounce the cause of this situation described here, which is that the People's Party and the Socialist Party boycotted the creation of the Vigo Metropolitan Area, they liquidated it shortly after it was born. The first metropolitan area of Galicia, which actually took a lot of work and many years to build, fifteen years of turn and debate, laws after laws, and six months ended it. They ended it because it's another episode of that confrontation, that party struggle where the Socialist Party and the People's Party are installed. And they don't care. It doesn't matter to you, in order to prevent any project from benefiting an area in which 440,60 thousand people live. And here's the theme of metropolitan transport, there's the theme of water supply to Vigo and its area, fighting on the Cyes Islands, fighting for the urbanization of AP-9, fighting for Celta. Anyway, it's all good to try and get some kind of cut. And public transport is the worst example of this lack of cooperation and lack of institutional loyalty, which we have also highlighted with regard to the debate on Marisquiño, which was another victim of this lack of institutional loyalty. And, of course, here the reason for this difference, theoretically, is the discrepancy in the application of the transport agreement. For, in the agreement itself, the procedure for resolving discrepancies is laid down, which is the application of clause 10, which is settled in the courts, if there is no agreement, the interpretation of the agreement. I don't know, two years have been paralyzed with this, it has also led to the paralysis and burial of the metropolitan transport area itself, because you don't want to solve this matter, because you live better in confrontation, it's going better for you, and so we're constantly attending the demonstrations of this confrontation. Of course, they come here now and bring this debate and this proposal to try to wash their faces, to blame the Socialist Party, to blame the Vigo Council of all evils, when there are also responsibilities of the Galician Union, who has been banned and who has put the Vigo Metropolitan Area down with their actions. And that's why the BNG brings here a very simple amendment, and it is that clause 10 provided for in that agreement applies and that the courts decide in any case how this agreement should be interpreted, and above all what we ask them to do is to stop using neighbouring as hostages, as hostages to their lulles, their struggles and their partisan interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u279	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. You have the floor by the Socialists' Parliamentary Group, Mr. Losada Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u280	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Article 1 of the Galician Symbol Law of 29 May 1984 says: the flag, the shield and the anthem of Galicia symbolize their identity as historical nationality. I think it's little subversive, frankly, but, well, it's true that the level of subversion each puts it where he considers it. [[Applause]] Mr. Pazos, look, I don't know very well who he was referring to when he was talking about gossip, but, if he meant who he thought, what he never did was walk on a yacht with a drug trafficker through Vigo's creek, never, never, never!, he never did! [[Applause]] Therefore, absolutely proud. By the way, about discussing Justice, I suppose you remember when the People's Party said that the Gürtel plot had been mounted by the minister Rubalcaba. Remember? Don't you remember? Well, I think it's a good example of the discussion of Justice. Look, in "In search of lost time," the protagonist resembled himself with a madalena for almost twenty leaves, and the truth is that his beloved since she ended up forgetting him, because he was looking at stopping the madalena. And you here are absolutely enamored with a fact that annoys you enormously, which is that you are about to be electorally and politically irrelevant in the Vigo Town Hall, about to be politically irrelevant in the Vigo Town Hall. [[Applause]] And as you do, Mr. Pazos, I understand that you come here to do municipal politics, because the People's Party will not have concelers in the Vigo Town Hall to defend your political positions. Summer, summer. Look, the Vigo Metropolitan Area covers a political space that has had results in the municipal elections, which you certainly know, Mr. Pazos. The PSOE had 93,663 votes, i.e. 45%, and the People's Party had 31%. So I'm no longer talking about 17% and 7% of Vigo, because of not hurting sensibilities, I'm talking about the whole Vigo metropolitan area; I repeat again: 93,600 versus 66,000. And you certainly know, Mr. Pazos, which was the trend of your party in Vigo Town Hall: to fall between 2011 and 2015 by 53% the number of votes; I repeat: to decrease by 53% the number of votes in Vigo Town Hall between the elections of 2011 and 2015. Because, Mr. Paz, you know what's going on? It happens that Vigo's citizens are not fools and they know exactly what the political position of the People's Party is on this issue. They know that you tried in 2012, when you passed the first law only with your votes, that either in the executive power or in the leadership power in the Vigo Vigo Metropolitan Area had been at the same time as any other municipality in the area, as you well know. And they had to pass this data, that is, this 53% fall in votes, so that Mr. Feijóo and Mr. Rueda actually reconsidered their position and therefore changed this situation. And then, when they saw that it meant a loss of political power that was important for the Galician Union, they did something that was in their hands to undo. Hey, why did they go to the courts? Remove the appeal in the courts and the Metropolitan Area is put into operation immediately. By the way, why is the operation of the Metropolitan Area conditional on one of the competences and not on the other? Why is it conditional on the operation of metropolitan transport? By an ad hoc law, made by you, precisely to block the operation of the Vigo Metropolitan Area, because they knew that Vigo and the vigues and the vigues would not pay an exclusive competition from the Galician Union, and it's good that the board and the municipalities pay. If the Council of Ourense and its mayor want to pay, it's very good, but the Council of Vigo and its mayor won't pay exclusive powers from the Council of Galicia. And by the way, you have all the support of the Socialist Party to do so, you'd only be missing! You, who say they're going to lower taxes. But hey, what are you talking about? Do you really believe that citizens are not aware of this situation? And by the way, in the Metropolitan Area itself, there's no more expenses for the Galician Union and for the municipalities, except for Vigo's, who has to pay, subsidize the tickets for the metropolitan transport.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u281	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u282	It's over, Mr. President. As Mr Bará has said, there is a method to solve this, which is the litigation-administrative; there is a solution to the problems in the metropolitan transport agreement.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u283	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u284	And by the way, in the second paragraph it says that the compensations of the Galician Council for urban service will be made by the first urban stage, and that is what the Vigo Council accepts...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u285	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u286	...what appears in the agreement, do not certify the Board's accounts by lowering taxes and asking...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u287	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada. Time's up. [[Applause]] Mr. Losada, this is not about being subversive or not, but Article 77.2, to which your spokesman referred, determines that it is the presidency to which you consider whether or not to read the article. So I thank you for your timely... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I see a lot from up here, a lot. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal Ogang.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u288	...of institutional disloyalty, I don't know what you call to bring an initiative to the Galician Parliament with the only objective of exhausting the Vigo Council, because it's the only objective of this initiative, because you know perfectly that this initiative will not serve anything at all, it won't unravel the situation, it won't solve the problem. It is entirely legitimate for the People's Party to have the position you stand for, but bringing this initiative here is only useful for advertising, for campaigning and for making wear policy with administrations that are not of their own color, and you know it perfectly. You know this initiative won't trigger anything, but it's one more, again, another more, and it's no longer surprising anyone that the People's Group uses this one-time and exclusively to carry out electoral campaign and wear-out campaign to administrations they don't govern. This PNL is another of your campaign against the Vigo Town Hall, where you have your representation. I will not venture as much as Mr. Losada, I will not talk about the future, but from now on you have representation, I am the first force of opposition in the Vigo Council, and this initiative the logical thing is that they defend it in the plenary of the Vigo Council, which is where they have to defend this initiative. They're absolutely useless here; as I say, to make wear policy, and you know it perfectly. If you want to bring initiatives to urge and question the various municipalities of the cities of Galicia, you could one day also bring an initiative to discuss the Council of Ourense, the only municipality in the seven cities that has not been able to approve a single budget, and with many shortcomings. But you have already brought initiatives from all the cities of Galicia, except Ourense, because you use this plenary to wear out administrations that are not of your own color. Many initiatives were brought by Vigo, Coruña, Compostela, Pontevedra, Ferrol and Lugo, but they never brought any of Ourense, which speaks very clearly of what their intentions are. But all the initiatives that you bring to this plenary -- not only this one, the other LNP, too, and the two questions, the four -- are initiatives to carry out electoral campaign and wear campaign, and in this particular case, on this initiative, they are equally incoherent, given that this leads them to the point of conflict where they already know they have no meeting, because the consensus or agreement of what you are talking about has already manifested both the Galician Union and the Vigo Council that interpret it differently, and that's already on the table, and that's already right now and it won't move. So going back to the point of conflict is not absolutely good for solving the problem. It's incoherent also because you do it two months from the municipalities; obviously, two months from the municipalities won't solve this problem, they won't reach that agreement, and you know it. And it's also incoherent because Vitrasa also ends her concession, and therefore as part of the firm, because it doesn't make sense to resume this right now. But, as I say, this is not just this initiative. You bring another one in which the Government of the State urges the Deputy Police Unit to increase, also with the intention of tearing down the Government of the State, because they could bring a PNL to demand the transfer of powers, so that since the Galician Union could have the capacity to act. But you don't want to be able to act, you just want to wear off by an electoralist interest. And the two questions that you bring are coming with the same objective. They bring one about the plan of promotion for the Atlantic freight corridor, because when you ruled in the State Government the State Government, the People's Party, and did not ask Galicia to be incorporated into the commodity corridor, as they moved it from European instances, where they said there was no request from the Government, you brought no initiative here, you shut up, and when we betrayed initiatives for the government to act, they voted against. And bring this initiative now with the only interest in exhausting the Government of the State. And they bring another to make equal propaganda about progress in equality. You could bring an LNP to urge the Government of the Union to increase its policies of equality. So it would be useful and if it would be useful for something, but they just bring up a question to be able to campaign propaganda, because you don't want to solve the problems, they just want to make propaganda. We, as if looking for solutions, propose to them a replacement amendment, which if we understand that it can solve the problem, which is an amendment which says that the Galician Parliament urges the Government of Galicia to, once the new governments are constituted — because it makes no sense now to do this, we will have to wait until the new municipal governments are formed to sit down to find a solution in the Metropolitan Area of Vigo — work in the search for a new agreement — because they know this does not solve the problem. So if they want to find a solution, they urge the Government of the Union to start conversations for a new agreement and to do so between the Self-Government or the Town Councils, because we also understand that it doesn't make any sense that is part of a private company's firm. We understand that the signature must be between the administrations, and then we talk about concessions, but there Vitrasa paints nothing in the firm. We bring them a serious proposal, which can serve to solve the problem, because what you usually propose, as usual, is not absolutely for nothing. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u289	Thank you very much, Mr. Cal Ogong. On the part of the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr Pazos Couñago has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u290	Well, starting with something positive, I'll start by agreeing with Mr Bará: it must be the complicated list thing for Mr Cal to propose us here today as a spokesperson for the People's Party. In any case, we thank him very much for telling us about the initiatives we have or do not have to present. It's very good because I know that you, on the other hand, have a huge interest in what the municipalities are discussing here are those of Tui, Mos, Sanxenxo, Round it, Palaces, Ourense... [[Murmurs.]] And that's why he comes here today because he caresses us what you do every day in every commission. But, of course, that's what we used to talk about: there are things that are only allowed to the left. [[Murmurs.]] I want to reassure Mr Bará too, don't I? I'm a shocker, Mr. Bará, I'm from Roundup. Home!, nobody told me nothing to go on any list outside my council; in any case, man!, I think who was number one on the list at Congress and didn't go out, and who was also on the lists, right? of his council and they didn't want it either, should worry less about my position on the lists and worry a little more about his, Mr. Bará. [[Applause]] And look at one thing: I think those who were in hibernation were you. Look, if you're on the agenda, you know, of what's going on in this country, you should know that the Law of the Metropolitan Area envisaged it was that, according to the outcome of the award of the transport lines, they were incorporated into the Metropolitan Area. And that's what's happening today in Galicia, and that's why you have to bring this here, because this is urgent, because you're losing an histó-ri-ca, historic opportunity. But that doesn't matter to you, because here we are. You have a concept of the curious confrontation, because we ask you to fulfill a commitment that is signed — signed, gentlemen! — for everyone. See if you're signed by everyone that even Mr. Losada, to weaken my law, you've had to refer to 2012; from 2016 you didn't say anything, it's a very curious thing. And, of course, it says: why is it conditional on the agreement to comply with this point? Man, we wake him up for fourteen Town Councils and the Galician Union! But I, if you like, will give you a copy of the deal. It's just that among the firms is that of the beloved leader, I promise, that I didn't fake it. [[Laughter]] And, of course, I don't speak because I'm Vigo's or because I'm going to go on a list. I'm talking about it because I think I'm the only German -- I've had that privilege -- that was at all the meetings of unlocking of the Metropolitan Area, in all of them!, and I know them first-hand. So, of course, it is very good that you refer me to the dispute, but it would be much better for you to accept the outcome of the dispute. And tell him one last thing -- and I'm done with it now. Look, I think you have to have a little respect for the political opponent, for everyone. And, therefore, to call an irrelevant group of 20 percent of Vigo's representation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u291	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u292	...it seems to me to be a misunderstanding of respect. To make it the voice of a group that represents 17% in this House seems to me like a coat of hair. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-03-12-DSPG105.u293	Thank you very much, Mr. Pazos. We'll stop the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning.
