ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. Eva Solla and Alberto Núñez Feijóo — at least today — were justified. Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u2	And now I also submit to the House information on the request for the adjournment of Question 5.1 of the agenda, which is an interpellation of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea — I think it is — It's from Marea, isn't it? Yes, it's from En Marea. And in this case it is done in accordance with Article 73.1 of the Regulation. And the alteration of the agenda is for the adjournment of the interpellation. [[Assentment.]] You've got a feeling. So, perfect. So we're starting with point one, legislating texts. Comprehensive discussion of Galicia's Rehabilitation and Regeneration and Urban Renewal Bill
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u3	This bill has been tabled in full by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. For the presentation of the bill, Mrs. Ángeles Vázquez Mejuto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u4	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. We are bringing to this House today the project of which will be Galicia's Rehabilitation, Regeneration and Urban Renewal Act, thus responding to the commitment made by this government to the current legislation. Any legal text which is debated and put to the vote in this Parliament is very important, but I believe that this Rehabilitation Act has a plus of relevance, as it is a pioneering text and it will be the first law of this kind with which Galicia is going to count, being in addition to the first communities to regulate this matter specifically and exhaustively, because it is a law that is designed to speed up processing and to encourage the recovery of historical helmets and also rural nuclei and because it is born with the objective of promoting between the Greeks and the Greeks the culture of rehabilitation. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that all the groups that we represent in this House we agree that Galicia needed a rehabilitation law, because there is no greater deprotection for housing, for our old helmets, for our rural nuclei than their abandonment, and because we want to make a Galicia more attractive to live, to work and also to visit. And we want to do this by facilitating the recovery of the already built, promoting awareness of the importance of the rehabilitation of housing and promoting the economic, social and demographic dynamization of Galicia. We are faced with a law that is one more step from the Galician Union in the position in the value of our territory, an issue in which we have been working for ten years and which has had numerous milestones. The first of them, the Coastal Management Plan, in 2011; the Land Management Guidelines, also in 2011; the Land Law of 2016; or the Galician Landscape Strategy, of 2017; with two other great milestones such as the Autonomous Basic Plan and the basic plans for the municipalities of less than five thousand inhabitants. This long journey, logically, would be incomplete without a new law that responds to the need to dignify the landscape and value traditional architecture, while at the same time achieving that these spaces recover and become centers of economic activity; a law that fits within the board's commitment for rehabilitation as a fundamental tool in housing policies and as an efficient, sustainable solution, but also in the future. So this year we are looking at the budgets for a total of EUR 36 million, which comes to be 38% of the budget of the Galego Institute of Living and Solo. Our goal, ultimately, is that housing rehabilitation is becoming more and more attractive to citizens and, at the same time, meets these new needs of a modern and advanced society, as well as the measures taken in this area to make them as efficient as possible. So from the very first moment, we were aware that it had to be a law developed with the highest consensus, and we have demonstrated it. We know that only in this way will we be able to achieve its objective and beyond that it lasts in the long term. In fact, we're looking for consensus from the very first steps. For his elaboration we opened up a process of participation. We have held a dialogue with all sectors involved and with all social agents. We wanted all those who wanted to make approaches to the text to be able to do so, and that participation was more than fruitful. In fact, we have incorporated into the text that we are presenting today 42% of the allegations that brought us in during the consultation process prior to the hearing of the text. We subsequently refer the law to the Economic and Social Council for its assessment and dictate it to me. And in this procedure, I tell you that almost 74% of the allegations received have been accepted. Today we want to complete this process. It is a process of dialogue, it is a process by listening to the various political groups represented in Parliament. And all those observations that are intended to feed and back-up this law will be welcome. I think this law is so important that it is worth making an extra effort to reach consensus. We want it to be a law for all the Greeks and for all the Greeks and the Greeks. What we are bringing here today is a text that responds directly and in good time to the three main objectives that we have set out in its preparation: the reduction and simplification of obstacles and procedures in the process of rehabilitating — it is essential — the creation of new management figures that facilitate the impulse of these actions and the introduction of new financing measures and — as could not be otherwise — new sanctions. Our main goal is to make it easier for the rehabilitation of housing both in historical and rural areas, thus prioritising rehabilitation in the face of new constructions, as the president of the board said last January when the law was referred to the House. To do this, we propose two different areas: on the one hand, the rehabilitation of buildings, on the other hand, regeneration and also urban renewal. With the aim of reducing possible obstacles to the main innovations in the law, it includes simplifying the processes and procedures necessary to carry out rehabilitation actions, provided they do not affect protected values. Thus, the text includes rules for direct application that will apply in all areas with protection in the 300 municipalities. The intervention procedures are simplified in the dwellings located next to Santiago's roads. Supposed to be granted direct licences by the municipalities, for example, for works of cover change, for exterior carpentry, in facades or inside buildings. And it simplifies the processing of timely planning changes, achieving a reduction within the time limit of 40% of the time. In addition, to expand the recuperable housing park, it is easy to purchase real estate when its owners fulfill their rehabilitation duties. Thus, Junta and the municipalities may expropriate ruinous or half-ruined buildings for about 50% of the land ownership rights. However, this will not apply to those people who could not be rehabilitated because of economic and personal circumstances. Finally, public interventions for the recovery of damaged areas will be encouraged and aid to municipalities and individuals will be stepped up to promote rehabilitation, renewal and urban regeneration. New management figures are created. The law that we present today before Parliament reinforces the current management figures and creates new ones to boost rehabilitation. In fact, the figure of the integral rehabilitation areas (the so-called ARI) is sharpened, enhancing existing ones and giving them wider content to the actions to be performed. The network of rehabilitation offices is established. The Rexurbe areas, areas of urban regeneration of autonomic interest, are also being launched, which will generally affect the historical nuclei classified as BIC that are particularly degraded, or because of their singularity or deterioration, and need a special performance. In these areas you will need to have a dynamisation plan that makes a path sheet to follow. This instrument, which will be approved by the Council of the Union, looks at the area of action from the economic, architectural, heritage, commercial and social perspective. The law also creates areas of special need for rehabilitation (the so-called ZER), designed for specific buildings or for a set of them when it is necessary to perform urgent action or equipment of special relevance. In addition, Rexurbe centres are being set up, which will aim to centralize action management and facilitate public interventions by both individuals and promoters. But, as I said at the outset, the law not only focuses on cities and historical helmets, but also promotes the rehabilitation of rural nuclei, always seeking greater prosperity for our rural environment. And do it through different tools. On the one hand, the creation by the municipalities of the municipal registers of abandoned nuclei; on the other hand, facilitating rehabilitation actions, eliminating obstacles; and on the third hand, simplifying the procedures for the purchase of ruined housing. The law also includes, as could not be otherwise, measures to promote the financing of rehabilitation actions, enabling the combination of different types of public funding. On the one hand, direct actions by the Galician Board, state and European funds, funding programmes with financial institutions or call for aid for individuals and promoters. In the rehabilitation financing measures, the Rexurbe Fund, which consists of interest-free loans to projects submitted by the municipalities in which an area or area of Rexurbe is defined, and the canon of abandoned real estate, a tribute from the Autonomous Community on buildings declared in state of abandonment within the Rexurbe areas. The revenue obtained by this canon is intended to finance actions and dynamisation measures within the scope of which they are included. Those citizens who cannot meet their obligations will be exempt because of the lack of economic resources. Through the Rehabilitation Act, we also seek to contribute to the fight against feism, especially in our historical helmets. For the first time, a specific sanctioning regime is established to fight against those painted, the so-called graffiti, produced in historical buildings and protected areas, including fines ranging from 300 to 150,000 euros, depending on whether it is a minor offence or a serious infringement. The purpose of this legislative novelty in painting came first to be dissuasory; first we must prevent, but it is true that then we also have to typify and punish. And on the other hand, we focus on the positive impact of rehabilitation. In short, this law aims to eliminate all kinds of barriers that can be from the legal, administrative and management point of view, simplifying the procedures, those procedures that required both the promoters and the municipalities and the owners, and that we have seen but that we did not finally step in, with an active consciousness now on what will involve the rehabilitation of our homes. Since rehabilitation is a tool that becomes a real engine for the development of its environment, we have to push it and it can't be any other way than regulating it. It responds to the needs of the population's housing, allows to preserve the built heritage and contributes to diminishing impacts on our environment, and undoubtedly also brings countless advantages, many benefits. They know, for example, that for every million euros destined for public aid to individuals, in the case of rehabilitation, more than 3 million euros is induced investment. But 200 jobs are also created, and around all of this, it's 1.6 million euros in taxes and also contributions. That's why since the Galician Union we consider it a key tool to be able and legally to facilitate and enhance the recovery of the already built one that allows Galicia to continue to evolve with its own identity and be a state agent in the field of rehabilitation. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we are very aware of the importance of the Law on Rehabilitation, Regeneration and Urban Renewal for our community, for our municipalities, for the promoters, for the owners of buildings, but also for those people who decide to go to an old helmet. But there are new needs and, therefore, we have to get the locks out of the way. Because participation is paramount, and it is paramount on the part of all agents — so we have come to do — but also on the part of all political groups. Now our desire, my desire, is to seek and achieve the highest consensus in this House, because I think we all want to get as much agreement as possible in a law that will be directed to take one more step in the position in the value of our territory. It's a law of the future, it's a law of Galicia, it's a law of all. It's a law that will facilitate the recovery of the built heritage, from that legacy that we've been left. There's no worse deterioration than abandonment. It's a law that will facilitate the recovery of heritage, a law that seeks to convert degraded nuclei into sources of economic and social life. We no longer focus on urban rehabilitation, but we also want dynamism, we want life in old helmets, in rural nuclei. It's a law that wants to regain our identity and prosperity, a law of the future. Ladies and gentlemen, we are convinced that this bill is what Galicia needs from the present but also Galicia from the future, and that it will help us lay the foundations for a more orderly, responsible and, above all, more sustainable future. Therefore, as an advisor if I would ask the various political groups to make the greatest effort, an effort that has already been made — many allegations have been made, many contributions have been made. In the end, the result must be that beautiful Galicia where to live, where to be, but also to be able to visit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u5	Thank you, Counselor. The defence of the amendment to the full refund of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Torregrosa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It seems to us that what this bill transmits, as soon as it is studied, is a complete lack of will, of what a law must wish, in our understanding, to provide legal form to the solution of a situation in which there was a regulatory vacuum, taking into account the previous legislative framework, in a clear and simple way to provide a service to the citizen. None of this appears in the bill that we are discussing here, but it does exactly the opposite; that is to say, create a confusion in the already chaotic journey of laws and regulations that have occurred since Law 2/2016, the ground of Galicia, and its implementing regulation in Royal Decree 143 of the same year; a law that has been well modified following successive adjustments to tax and administrative measures in Laws 2 and 9, 2017, in Law 3 of 2018, in this same bill and in the new regulation that will replace 143, which is already taking place in parallel to this same bill, and Law 3/2016 and 5/2017, of public emergency projects and the implementation of business initiatives. This dispersion and normative confusion, the product of constant improvisation towards concrete interests, seriously impairs legal security and heritage and urban integrity in our country. As we have already said, under an axillization of bureaucratic procedures, we are opening the door to extract the rules of protection from our heritage. Nor does this law respect the current Law 5/2016, of Galician cultural heritage, nor Law 8/2012, of Galician housing. After all this set of laws, which are changing the measure of their own interests — since it is clear that the debate in this House does not exist, neither reflection nor self-criticism — we find ourselves with this legislative pearl. Since our parliamentary group we have already presented to the Commission an initiative on the preliminary draft law on what was going to happen: that a law was being prepared in which the basic objective is to mobilize, even with forceful measures, towards private management the built heritage, which we remind them belongs to the whole of the Greeks and the Greeks. And his duty, as a government, is to protect him and not to do business with him by degrading him and selling him to the best bidder. You just said that you're very interested in listening to the recommendations and that it has to be a law of consensus. It's true. So we already expose our refusal to face a frontal attack on the survival of the architectural heritage in historic centers, where it does not respect the management and allows the occupation of the public and subsoil soil, we allow changes in the urban structure, defined by an increase in edificibility and volume, contravene in historical centers the need for the special action plan referred to in Law 5/2016. The standard of direct application of the scheme of protected buildings proposes determinations that will apply to buildings included in the territorial categories of goods defined in the Galician Heritage Act, its protective contours or where it is mandatory to establish special protection plans that prevail over general planning, PXOM or autonomous or development basic plan, including the approved PPRIs. Only individual BICs and full-protection BICs are excluded from these NADs. On a voluntary basis, I want to tell you, Counselor, that little or nothing, as far as it's going to happen, are important the paintings. By setting an example, instead of encouraging pedestrian traffic, free dissuasory parking and public transport, it is intended to allow the use of the basement in historic centers, when most of Galicia's historical sets have already been eliminated. At that moment, in the committee, we had already asked for reflection and responsibility before what was being proposed, a real barbarity. The answer from his spokesman was that he was a preliminary draft and that the debate would already be held in full. Really? I wish you'd take advantage of something that's exposed to the amendment to modify what you're proposing. And the way of summarizing it, it's a law that benefits private investment, with measures that allow us to skip the laws of heritage protection to make the supply even more attractive; a law that does not regulate the mechanisms of citizen participation aimed at reaching the greatest possible consensus for urban regeneration and renewal operations; a law in which the abandonment of historic centers is no reason to promote housing policies towards citizenship, something that absolutely does not contemplate their implemented budgets. No concept of empty housing or relocation of neighbors who can leave affected by social rent plans or rehabilitation or adequacy aid for social groups who, while still wanting to stay, cannot cope with the cost of updating housing. There is no protection for current inhabitants. Expropriations which may reduce the selling price of the real estate to 50% of its value, which can be enforced forcefully even without there being bad housing conservation, and in which the Public Administration itself, instead of having an equal position or privilege, at least in the possibility of acquiring the immovable saying for collective and social use, leaves it relegated by privileged private investment, and, in cases of forced sales, may only acquire the real estate after two bids, after the offer at half price, where companies and private investment have privileges. There is no deep work to regulate the situation of rural nuclei beyond the sale of the property built to the private initiative. Like you said, to remove obstacles, to sell, to sell, to sell... Only in order to illustrate, I would like — as we have recently felt so close to our state referent — to the Basic Law, Law 16/85, of the Spanish historical heritage, which specifies, among other things, the obligation, in accordance with the Constitution, of the administrations to guarantee the conservation of the Spanish historical heritage, as well as to promote the enrichment of it and encourage and protect the access of all citizens — in different articles. "The administrations of the state" -- he adds -- "will protect the advance goods against illegal export and police. " It seems to us, therefore, that this bill is not only completely insensitive to the historical and cultural value of the rich, diverse and already fragiliized architectural heritage of Galicia, and more than a law of rehabilitation, renewal and urban regeneration of Galicia, looks like a place to be ready to go out into the market of goods. As we have already said, gentlemen of the Government, and since you are conservatives, you should at least prove and assume your responsibility with facts that leave no more misfortune to generations to come. They don't care who they sell Galicia, they only handle fake statistics. A single legislation is essential and that in no case does this law — as we present in our amendment to the whole — make the protection of the heritage invisible. Life in cities makes people; we, foreign investments and financial groups. The people who already live in cities are the ones who have to be helped to stay alive. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Torregrosa. Round of the other parliamentary groups. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u8	Good morning, Counselor. This whole debate seems to us to be a good opportunity for a substantive debate on the situation in which we are and on the opportunity or necessity of this law. For BNG, the first thing we have to do is note the failure of the economic, urban and land management policies in Galicia. You talked to us here about many laws, and most of them are not developed; for example, the land management guidelines and the landscape strategy are not effective, and they are standards that have been adopted for many years. All of this, this legal vacuum, this non-compliance with the law and these fundamental policies that led to the abandonment of the territory, the depopulation of rural areas, the degradation of urban centers and historic centers. And this has been produced by specific policies that have been enhanced and promoted, speculative policies, exclusive and discriminatory policies, divisive and destructive policies, with the proliferation of the city model and urban areas diffused against compact ones. These policies have led to the expulsion of the people from the city centers. But it was economic and urban policy decisions that developed governments, in most cases, of the People's Party. This has a lot to do with, for example, the proliferation and promotion of large shopping centres, which weaken local trade and traditional trade. That was supported by the policies of the People's Party. And they are also performances such as those of the dormitory cities, such as those of the dormitory neighborhoods, such as those of the large urbanizations, which create great impacts on the landscape, the territory and the mobility. This is the model he's gone to, and now they're complaining about the situation. This has been promoted and has responsibilities. You have a lot to do with that, just like the abandonment of rural areas, the loss of services in rural areas or the dismantling of basic economic sectors of the rural economy; all of this, in addition, encouraged, promoted, with laws such as the Predation Law. The second question of this substantive debate that we want to bring here is the failure of urban policies and housing, speculative policies that have brought forward the private business about public interest and people's rights. Interestingly, they do not apply their sacred Constitution. They were speculative policies that resulted in an excessive, abusive, unmeasured and artificial increase in housing prices, both for sale and rent. Now we are watching that blob of rent that is being powered and promoted by concrete policies, including the state housing plan. We are watching, in these years, the big feast of the bank and the investment funds around the speculation of housing. Instead of intervening in the market from the public authorities and from the Galician Union, nothing is done. And there's the situation of the empty dwellings, with the failure of the empty housing program of the Galician Union. Even though you blame the municipalities, it's a fundamental fault in the planning and the idea of the program itself. We have seen in recent years how public spending has been reduced in housing in the state — in Galicia we are in the queue of Europe — or how investment in public promotion housing has been reduced or the low budget execution of housing rehabilitation and quality programmes. And, of course, now, in the memory of the bill, we are talking about the exhaustion of that model, the limitations of the construction of new housing, the priority of intervening on the built against the new construction, the importance of the regeneration of urban and rural spaces and the rehabilitation of old buildings. But, of course, all this is not done because they didn't. They've been ruling for many years, and now they've come to us with that mantra of rehabilitation and urban regeneration, which was already in the housing plans of 2013 -- in the state -- and also in the plan of 2015-2020. In principle, they were talking about axis 2 — rehabilitation of housing and urban reorganisation — with the same objective, with EUR 133.82 million that we don't see in reality anywhere. The problem is that they have an absolutely reductionist and limited vision also in the law, by prioritising actions in the urban environment, urban situations, and not comprehensive actions from an urban, social, economic and environmental point of view. And here are also the examples and models that we can compare. There's also the model that led the BNG to the cities where he governs, the Allariz model, a small town with a large historical center. There's the model of Pontevedra, a city with a large historical center. Here are the results with towns and dynamic, lively historic centers, with activity, with traditional trade, with leisure activities, with cultural activities, with dynamism, with vitality, because it was affixed by urban centers, its vitality and its dynamism. And in view of that is the model of the large commercial areas, of the large urbanizations on the outskirts of the cities. And, of course, you also arrive here with this bill and with a People's Party program that has many unmet promises, because you were talking about the Plan Regurbe program with the forecast of acting in 500 buildings with direct public intervention from the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo, in 1,500 homes and in 350 commercial locations. And you were talking in 2016 about the rehabilitation of 10,000 homes in historical rural helmets — 10,000 houses in historical rural helmets in this legislation!—. We are in 2019, where is the balance?, where is the result? You announced that you were operating in 16 homes in the historic barracks of Betanzos, Lugo, Mondoñedo and Ourense. They don't match our figures, the results are bad, they're poor. And that's not to mention the partisan use they're doing. You have a lot of school on this issue, in your previous work in your Rural Council, about the favor treatment, the preferential treatment, the governments and councils of the People's Party. In this context this law emerges, without any diagnosis and previous study. And in this sense, Counsellor, I recommend that you at least look at some neighbouring community, because here beside Castela-Leon did the duties and did the things before. He made a law in 2014, he made a strategic plan, the community has a rehabilitation and urban regeneration strategy. You guys here what you've been doing these three or four years ago was fighting. He went to fight in Galicia's board to see who was in control of this issue. And there was a confrontation, there was a very hard battle. Because, of course, Mr. Faixóo told us in 2016 that he was half a government working on this law. It took them quite a long time to put it forward with all those confrontations and those fights. Because the Council of Culture, which has the competences in heritage, in 2016 announced, and then made a strategic plan to dynamize the historic helmets of Galicia. It was going to be the solution to this issue and it was on its way because it didn't even participate in the Housing Council in defining that plan. And now what has been demonstrated with this process is that the Housing Council took the rents, took control of this issue, going over the Culture Council, the Directorate General of Heritage and even the Directorate General of Urbanism, because what it does is to step over and pass over the legislation on soil and on cultural heritage, which is torn apart and annulled with legal insecurity that we'll see where it leads. Let us hope that this intent will be halted, that they will reflect on all these issues and that they will avoid the outcome that can happen if you really go ahead with this model that you propose in this law; a law in which economic interests on social issues prevail, which leaves the door open to the speculative business of housing through rehabilitation and urban regeneration. This is the truth that it is not new because it was already collected in the state law that the People's Party has made and which leads to a certain risk of expulsion of residents and traditional activities from the processes of entrification that we are seeing, because it does not pay sufficient and necessary attention to social factors, to factors that have to do with exclusion, poverty, social vulnerability, to the difference of other rules that have been adopted in the state. For example, you foresee return and real estate measures that are authoritative, that are not mandatory. They should be those mandatory measures. And they opt for punitive and sanctioning measures in the face of positive stimulus measures, providing for forced expropriation — where is that People's Party alarming about the bank of lands that would steal the land from rural people?—and with measures, I have to tell you, Counselor, of dubious effectiveness, as the canon of buildings in a state of abandonment in the slums that will have a lot of management difficulties and that has an absolutely ridiculous income forecast—you put it in memory, it's written there. Do you know how much you plan to enter the first few years — because you plan to declare ten reurb areas in the first few years —? It's worth 83,000 euros, which, by discounting the bonuses, and I'm not telling you any more management expenses -- because this canon is going to have more management costs than income -- so we'll finally stay at 78,000 euros. I don't know if it's necessary for this trip. And we're going to the hard core of the law, which is what predicts the privatization of public spaces with the excuse of solving accessibility needs and energy efficiency; that's what predicts the occupation of public spaces for this type of action and also, by the way, that it is contradictory to the Law of the Land and the Law of Heritage, which excludes this possibility, as a general rule, must be provided for in a special plan of action and in the catalogues of historic centers and spaces that have special protection. So how are you going to solve the contradiction between two laws — or between three laws, in this case? Look, it states that any changes to areas of special protection, such as historical sets and cores of ethnographic and rural interest, should only be made through planning figures. And you're going over the rules of cultural heritage and the law of the ground and you want to do it this way of imposing these actions. And also, with regard to the general deprotection of cultural heritage, they leave the door open to the destruction of the heritage, lowering the standards of protection of the built heritage and also the possibility of altering the plot, excluding the maintenance criterion of the urban plot, which is a fundamental element of historical memory, of historical heritage, of cities. I don't know if you realize the gravity of this thing. I don't know if you realize it, and if you read, for example, the allegations. Because you're talking about consensus here and what they collected. I don't know what percentage of allegations. But there were many very representative entities that went precisely to this hard core of the law and that you didn't give them any case. By no means, you have heeded the General Directorate of Cultural Heritage itself. His report doesn't appear anywhere, curiously. In a law that substantially alters fundamental elements of the Cultural Heritage Act, does the General Heritage Directorate have nothing to say? And you don't have anything to say, either, the Galeg Culture Council? That's funny, isn't it? Let us hope, of course, that in the process of processing the law, in the parliamentary process of the law, we will have the opportunity to listen to all these people, to see whether you really, now, with this law, decide to open the doors of this Parliament, which is a procedure which provides for the regulation, and listen to all those sectors that have been told, just like many council representatives, that it could not be, that this was very dangerous for the destruction and preservation of the heritage. Here, of course, you are nothing conservative. Look, this law, in addition, as we told you, has a significant deficit in social participation. And I'm not just referring to what I just said, in the sense that they haven't taken into account very well-founded views from sectors that have much to do with housing, heritage, protection and heritage conservation. And in addition to its development, its planning and its management, the law has a significant deficit in social participation and involvement. I'm referring to the measures provided for by law. You are focused on administrative coordination as well as administrative agility. For administrative axillization, anything is worth. We can go over municipal plans, through protection plans, through autonomic basic plans, by applying express law, if necessary, to break up what is needed; even to make private apartments in historic centers. Demental when cities are moving in the opposite direction and there are, in addition, alternative solutions and measures for that subject. Of course, the BNG advocates the need for a trend change, not these partial, cosmetic and surface measures. We think the law creates shortcuts for the privatization of public space, speculation and destruction of heritage.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u9	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u10	...which violates the legislation — which is very recent, in addition to two years — of a sectoral nature, which is a law which does not count on the resident population, inadequate, insufficient, biased, without that consensus that we have told you, that it needs a profound review. And therefore BNG will vote in favour of the refund amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u11	Thank you, Mr Bará. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u12	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. To make progress, it is not enough to act. We need to know how to act. That's what French psychologist Gustave Le Bon said, and it coincides very much with the feeling that today as a group we want to bring to this House. Because if we're asked if we need a law that will put in place measures to improve processing and speed up the rehabilitation of the heritage, we'll say yes. But if they ask us if we agree with the current approach to this bill, I'll be frank and answer them no. Because, despite sharing the motivation, the formalization of this law, we believe that it is much better and that it needs to channel its meaning in what we extend that should be redirected. It is a bill that at no time, at any time, in its explanatory statement reflects on the impact and impact of policies carried out so far. And it's not a minor matter, because it's obvious that if they were successful they should have avoided the very wording of this law. And we do not want to focus the debate on complaints, but it is very important that we properly acknowledge our responsibilities. Because this law speaks, and much, of the responsibilities of the Greeks and the Greeks, but little of the political responsibilities. That's why it's important to note here that this law appears to cover a totally non-existent void, and that's not the case. Because it is a law that is born or should be born to complement and not deny or contradict other laws that already exist, such as the Law of the Land, that of the cultural heritage or that of Galician housing. Laws, by the way, that were shown to be incapable of protecting our heritage more and better. And so much so that this Rehabilitation Act literally affects them and rides on many of them, complexing their application and adding further confusion to the process of processing licenses and acting on real estate or public spaces. But let us also state that if current laws were unable to regulate urban and rural actions on our heritage effectively enough, it was not so much as not to count on the precise mechanisms, but because of the lack of political will to do them. One example is the functioning of the provincial Heritage Services. The case of the province of Pontevedra is perhaps the most serious, where the reports took months, even more than a year, and which caused the dissembling of many and many Greeks, who see how these delays were added in turn to processing times in local administrations, already in itself long. And the answer to this problem could have two ways: either equip more personnel and media these services, or free them from burden and competence, and opted for the second. The municipalities thus recover direct control to grant licenses on protected properties or in areas of protection. And this decision doesn't have to be bad in itself, but surely it should be accompanied by economic departures to provide more means and personnel to enable us to cope with the new burden of work. Once again, we see how the Galician Union invites and the municipalities pay. [[Applause]] And we don't say so, Mr. Feijóo himself said, who recognized and believed that this law would allow 30 or 40 percent to be lowered by the files that the Autonomic Administration will have to report; a percentage that will be the result of municipal services and will increase that workload. Because here we have to make one thing clear: that a file doesn't go to Heritage in any case means that it doesn't report from the municipalities on the basis of its specific protection. To say or to make this believe is wrong to inform the citizen. As it is also wrong to report not to take into account that many of the issues that appear in this law, such as ARIs, energy assessment reports, Rexurbe areas, Soares Log, the cooperation fund and many other things, already exist, with more or less success but already exist. In any case, this law is only plasma and collects it in a common document. And in matters like this and many others, since our parliamentary group we see the obligation to pass this law as it is today presented by a cowardly law. And I know it might look like a hard adjective, but I assure you it's just descriptive. A cowardly law because, on the one hand, it abandons to its luck the work of constant vigilance of the protection of the heritage and, on the other hand, to its own citizenship, to which — and we think it wrongly — it blames itself in many of its articles of the present state of the built heritage and even the state of disrepair of many public spaces. A law that therefore gives its back both to citizenship and to its own heritage. And not only that, but his writing is plagued by a worrying ingenuity, especially when the state of abandonment of the heritage is very generalized. It cannot be understood as an anecdote and fruit of the carefree attitude of a few, it is a symptom of something much larger. There are full streets in towns and cities with a degree of very sharp abandonment. But to think this is because there are ten or twenty owners who have been mutually encouraging deliberate abandonment is naive, very naive. Let me give you an example: in certain streets of the old helmet, for example, of Pontevedra — that city, on the other hand, deserves prizes — degradation is maximum. And what's going on later? For the use in this case for nighttime leisure in that area has led many of its streets to be considered hostile territory for families. Many had to leave because their homes were invisible. And what is the solution to this law? Sanctions and even expropriating them. This doesn't seem to be an exercise too empathic with Greek citizenship. Ladies and gentlemen, degraded areas or buildings are due to the inaction of years, they are due to a crisis that has caused the lack of interest and financial capacity for their rehabilitation, they are due to the loss of urban quality and services, they are due to the lack of substantial aid for their rehabilitation, they are due to the necessary progress in the search for opportunities, they are because of the difficulties in handling the licences and also the high investment of them. This law therefore has a clearly deceived gaze of a Galician who, let us be clear, never did what was not allowed; a Galician who attacked the landscape and the territory where it was left; a Galician who did not always protect itself, right, where it was not valued; a Galician who walked away and left the countryside because the opportunities were also there. A Galicia, ultimately, that can't and must not be blamed, but understood and supported. [[Applause]] That's the great nuance that this law, in our understanding, has to collect and redirect. A law that understands that it is essential to mediate an agreement between Heritage and Citizenship, but that as in every agreement everyone wins and no one feels that he loses, because at the time that happens this law will be condemned to failure, as much as other laws have been before. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is one of the debates in which we should focus our parliamentary effort today. And we have to do this because this law has a sanctioning and guilty burden from our very controversial point of view, so that if we don't solve it we believe that it will frankly have this law — as I tried to explain earlier — of pure political hypocrisy. Because the citizen's involvement and commitment is not achieved by the coup d'état. Sanctions print fear, limit and condition, but what they'll never get is overcome disabilities. And many of the people who don't rehabilitate are simply because they can't and can't even understand to do so thoroughly in areas that have lost all their attraction to live them with quality of life. That's where the administration has to get involved and reach agreements that restore not only the buildings but life in these areas. And the help that exists today does not contribute particularly to this issue. Because many buildings need comprehensive rehabilitations, and the maximum aids given today are 12,800 euros; which in some cases can be, at most, 10 percent and in many other cases, in a high state of degradation, not even 3 percent of the total. That's why perhaps the budget execution data of recent years in terms of rehabilitation were so poor, about 20 percent of non-execution. Planting canons as an incentive measure, therefore, does not seem to be the right one to motivate citizenship. And if these also don't think fairly, the danger of feeding inequality is maximum. And at that point this Socialist Party will never stand in favour. We don't understand that one can actually punish some owners for the state of abandonment of their properties and not others, for being in areas considered less strategic or of interest. From our group, we believe more in positive measures and incentives, even if there are legal mechanisms already in place to demand the restoration of structural security and the maintenance of buildings. So let us be aware that there is a social reality that has been going through a lot of difficulties in recent years and even impossible to sell their properties too, when there is no demand, and to which attention must be paid and accompanied, but never drown. And that's why it's so important to pursue the balance of equity by maintaining, on the one hand, Galician urban and rural heritage, which is the ultimate object of this regulation, but not forgetting that it sustains a Greek citizenship that is not homogeneous and with very different realities, but that we understand globally that it cannot be considered — I insist — guilty of anything. They are often indirect agents of the urban process, affected and conditioned decisively by the misappropriate policies that led to the abandonment of historic centers and our entire heritage. It is true that this law can hardly say in municipalities where these bad policies have annihilated practically all the heritage, but many others who have been accompanied in good planning time are in time to preserve and preserve their rich heritage. This government will have and must decide why model bets, if you want to leave legacy like that of Mr. Telmo Martín in Sanxenxo or bet better by the legacy of Mr. Gerardo Estévez in Santiago de Compostela. This is the time to commit to conveying to the citizen the importance of appreciating and valuing the heritage. Nothing is collected in this law about it, and it seems that it should be taken into account. We need to raise awareness of the heritage and the importance of keeping it and keeping it as a cultural asset of special value beyond economic value. And in this sense, we are very concerned about the message that launches this law, because we share that we need to develop tools that allow the axillization of the materials of works that affect the heritage, but — I insist — always with the maximum of the cautions. And this law is sickened by the dangerous interpretation of many articles, which appear to be designed only to lower the cautions; a question that leaves the participation of the Galician Board very much in delinquent. I would like to point out how serious it is in Article 40, in which it says, on the one hand, that the determinations affecting the buildings set out in Chapter V, Section 1a will prevail over those established by the PXOMs, the autonomous basic plan, development planning and approved catalogues prior to the entry into force of the law. And it also says, "special protection plans which are transmitted after the entry into force of this law, exceptionally, may exclude from the application of some of these rules actions on certain real estates, plots or streets, provided their need for specific reasons of protection of cultural heritage is thoroughly justified." What this article says is as much as saying that this new law may be that it protects many cultural goods, and we know it. What is in all light is a real disincentive, because it is recognizing the vulnerability in which many immovables will be protected. It is the finding that this law opens a door to deprotection which may be very difficult to close. Is it more, if we put ourselves in a situation, if this option were to be applied, how long would it be between the situation of exposure to the loss of their cultural values of a real estate, plot and land and the drafting of a special plan? [[Applause]] Well, it wouldn't be less than two years at best. And that means that in two years a lot of things can happen; it's enough to get a previous license on the basis of this new law or it would already be subject to it and, therefore, the consequences could be already irreversible. A law which, as I said before, does not look back, which from the beginning considers heritage as a brake on activity, and forgets that beyond certain flexibilitys it must, in any case, dominate the preservation of the values that grant certain buildings or spaces to be considered cultural heritage. Galicia must have made it clear that its unique and differentiated heritage must be placed on that balance, on equal terms with the needs of citizenship, but never below. This would be a mistake that future generations would never forgive us, because losing a heritage is losing an identity. And while much of the strategy of this bill goes through the downside of the concept of property protection, it also lowers, and much, its value. In the different expropriatory formulas part of a supposed discount that can reach up to 50 percent less than the tax value. Something from our group we consider excessive. It doesn't seem very justified or even in cases where management costs are assumed to lower the value of properties to such a point. It's a clear road open for many private investors, which could simply be done with these properties so sensitive at low prices, whizzing almost the concept of seizure of real estate. And, to finish, we believe that this law has left aside two questions that are and should be much more present. On the one hand, and as the urbanist Jane Jacobs had already predicted by the 1960s, there is no urban intervention that today can be done aside from the perspective of gender. It's bad times for equality and gender perspective, of course. [[Fourteen minute pause motivated by the interruption of power supply.]] He said there is no urban intervention that today can be done aside from the perspective of gender, especially when we talk about urban regeneration. [[Murmurs.]] It is precisely in the renovation and regeneration operations of the cities where we must bet on a bet for urbanism with a gender perspective. [[Applause]] But not only since the financing of activities that guarantee the presence of women or conciliation measures, but also in the modification and adaptation of urban elements that have conditioned mobility and the modes of use of cities and villages; not only women, but also the whole collective traditionally dependent... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u13	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u14	...of them, as are dependent people, children or children. And finally, given that this law must collect less accessory and much more powerful rural regeneration policies, an introduction that seems to be done with footwear and that it should provide many more solutions than the mere purchase and collective sale of dwellings in abandoned nuclei, here too it is necessary to promote transversal measures to conquer the fixing of rural population and, gradually, to be reoccupationing and contributing to a sustainable and non-traumatic and forced recovery of the Greek rural heritage. The Socialist Party, therefore, is aware of the importance of this law to complement others who have proved themselves incapable in time, will not oppose its processing, even if it does so from abstention to this amendment of return, convinced that it is necessary, that is yes, to reorient this law; to mainly abandon the cowardice with which it was born and look back with humility to learn from mistakes, correct them and avoid them in the future. We hope that this will be possible, because it will mean that the rights of citizenship and the cultural values represented in the built heritage can be understood, especially in a Galicia that needs, and much, of both. For our part, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Castilian.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Good morning to the guests and guests of the benches. Mrs. Pierres, I'm starting with you because it was the last time I spoke. I don't know if what I read was the resistance manual of such a Pedro Sánchez, because, of course......comes with the mantra of all time, i.e., he speaks... calm down, man, that nothing happens. [[Murmurs.]] We have to talk about everything, and we are discussing precisely. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He speaks of the level of execution of budgets in the field of housing of the Union: he always comes with the same mantra of twenty percent, and he hasn't yet found out that it's eighty-four percent. [[Murmurs.]] Look: from twenty to eighty-four goes one sixty-four percent, one sixty-four percent higher. So something is reading bad, because they don't know, after repeating it many times; they're wrong. Comparing Sanxenxo to Santiago is like comparing Rome to Lugo. [[Mr. Castineira Broz pronounces words that are not perceived due to an electric cut.]] ...when they applauded before, they applauded him when the light went out, before he hardly got it. I mean, it's the same thing. [[Laughter]] And look, with all due respect, I say it to former mayor Gerardo Estévez, but with money on the spouts as there was to rehabilitate the historical helmet and send the Thursdays to the perimeter councils, so anyone makes housing policies. By the way, the same ones you're doing in Vigo. Look how many Thursdays are in the center, both Santiago and Vigo, to see what you think, if those are the policies of the Socialist Party. But it's the same thing. [[Murmurs.]] I wanted to begin, frankly, by saying that on November 7, 2017, with fifty-nine votes from the BNG, the Socialist Party and the People's Party groups, an initiative, on the proposal of the People's Group and with amendments from both the Socialist Party and the BNG, to bring to this parliament a law of rehabilitation. And the curious thing is, now comes the Rehabilitation Act, in addition, in the guidelines that were marked here, essentially in the amendment of the Socialist Party, and now it's criticized for bringing a Rehabilitation Act to this parliament. Well, even then In Marea had abstained. In his allegation — because it really is the only amendment to the whole — they speak of a liberalizing, privatising law that subordinates the public to private interest, etc. I expected more, even; after how they act and the populism of the Lords of En Marea, I sincerely thought it would be even more. But it must be said that this is not true. I don't know if you're thinking about moving from Vallecas to Galapagar or what you're thinking about, if that's speculation, privatization and things like that; but, of course, that's not what this Rehabilitation Act brings and proposes. The project that we are discussing today here facilitates interventions in the field of rehabilitation and urban regeneration and renewal. It gives public administrations, not private entities, public administrations, the planning and impulses of the public administrations, and establishes the guardianship of when private or private companies operate. There's a guardianship of the public administration itself, with which it's not, at least, what you're saying. And in that sense, Title I of the law clearly collects who is the initiative of actions and, in any case, the direction of the process, which is to the public authorities. And, of course, in addition, it especially protects the owners included in the areas that are demarcated. What are you talking about? Unprotection, speculation? Where? If much of the law is dedicated precisely to protecting residents and owners from the areas they demarcate; and then I will talk about who the initiative is about etc. So I don't know what they're talking about. "Disprotect, deregulation and add confusion." I believe that the confusion is really in the groups of the opposition benches, especially those of En Marea; they have such confusion that they don't know what to deal with. And even those of the PSOE don't know if they meet the north or the south; they don't clarify. But, of course, that's the confusion they have, and they think that in every group and every place there's the same confusion. No, look: this is an exquisite coordination between the general Directorates of Urbanism and Heritage and the Galego Institute of Living and Solo; exquisite coordination, and it's the fruit of this bill. Look, I'm going to read to them, because I think it's not, at least, doubting participation, the broad participation that this bill had in order to get here. For example, the College of Architects — which I suppose both Mrs. Julia Torregrosa and Mrs. Pierres know well — in her allegations she makes, begins by saying, "It is a matter of positively valuing the preliminary draft that makes a number of considerations." By the way, considerations that, for the most part, have been admitted to and included in the project. And to the collective saying, like the rest of those who have contributed to this law, from here on, from the People's Parliamentary Group, we thank them for this intense but logically important work. Or to the Fegamp, because we talked about the municipalities, but the Fegamp also expresses — the first one that says — that the preliminary draft is worthy of the favourable look. This law is being applauded, as are the municipalities as well as the professional or collective schools involved! What are they talking about? So they read something else, as I told them, possibly Manual of Resistance. So he took us the wrong way. They are talking — as I said — about the lack of protection and of regulatory confusion. Look: there is no normative confusion at all. This law culminates in normative development in the field of interventions in the territory. Along with the other laws, it culminates and closes — so to speak — the circle — which, at best, the Lords of En Marea and We can like —; that is, it closes that circle, in some way, by regulation in the interventions in the territory. It regulates in detail the actions on the built heritage, complementing the other regulations and, in addition, expressing the importance given to a matter as sensitive and specific as rehabilitation. Yes, we do it with a specific law, because for the People's Parliamentary Group, for the Government of the Union and for the People's Party rehabilitation is a subject of special sensitivity and specificness and deserves a specific law for that; by the way, as I said, applauded by many collectives, both professional and otherwise, or by the councils. They're talking about the situation of homeowners' defence, that we're not talking about relocation and that we're not regulating citizen participation. I'd say it's totally false. The law, as I have said before, makes special reference and sets out the guarantees and protection measures for the whole of residents in a defined area and, in particular, for those who do not have the resources to perform rehabilitation. They are exempt from any kind of canon and any obligation on owners who have no means to perform rehabilitation. So I don't know what you've read, because these topics are clearly specified. We're talking about totally different bills. Logically, this will be specified in more detail when it is done by the municipalities, which are the ones that have to take the initiative of the rehabilitation, delimitation or Rexurbe areas; they have to specify in greater detail each action that is going to be done there and therefore the economic and social situation of the owners that are affected there. This has to be included in that plan, which should be given in the delimitations. They speak and create a big problem for you. Article 15.4 of the privatisation —din — of public space, i.e. of generating parking lots in the basement of equipment areas. Look, that's a very demanding need, precisely, for users and residents in historic areas. To live in historical helmets, we need services: access services to new technologies, supplies, cultural services... services of all kinds, but also parking lots, which are also services. Are you telling me that in order to rehabilitate historical helmets, you don't have to provide services? Is that a problem? Provide quality of life for residents who live in historic helmets, is that a problem? No, if we really want to regenerate and revitalize historical helmets, we have to provide them with all kinds of services. And, moreover, it must be regulated by planning, yes, Mrs. Torregrosa, there is no contradiction whatsoever; and Mr. Bará, who spoke before, no contradiction whatsoever between the law of the ground and this law. It has to be included in planning and for timely cases where there is no alternative. I think we have to read things, or say them, because they certainly read them, but logically they say what they're interested in manipulating. He speaks and even says he attacks municipal autonomy, invades municipal competences. On the one hand, they are asking the municipalities to be more involved in licensing, to be given more license skills, and to be criticised for giving them. I think we have to be clear. In its own proposal adopted in November 2017, it was one of the questions that were asked, precisely: to transfer to the municipalities more competences, and here they are transferred; they do not invade the powers of the municipalities, however, give them more competences. Because the Town Councils, for the People's Party, of course, and for the People's Group, are older, and the technicians of the Town Councils are no less than the technicians of the Union. Or are they different and less capable for you? Because it makes you feel that way. Well, look: no, don't invade city councils' competences or attack municipal autonomy for nothing. In fact, neither Fegamp nor the various municipalities that made claims to the project and contributions — such as Lugo, Santiago, Ferrol or Vigo — mention that municipal powers are being invaded or that municipal competition is being attacked. What a chance for you to see what doesn't see all the municipalities! Well, I think I'd at least put it in doubt. From the rehabilitation areas — the Rexurbe areas — logically they criticize that they have been controlled since June. Listen: the Rexurbe areas — I think this deserves a special paragraph, because it is the creation of a very important figure for the rehabilitation of historical helmets — are proposed by the councils and approved by the Council of the Union, as it cannot be otherwise, because they carry funding from public funds — funding from the Union — and therefore have to be approved, because it is a expense. And, logically, there must be a follow-up commission; there would only be no need for a follow-up commission as to how the public funds are intended and processed. Are you saying no? What's the matter with the follow-up committee? Because they said so. No, that's how it's established, and the municipalities are the ones who are going to do the delimitation and the field study with the special plan. Yes, a special programme that has to be done for the dynamisation plan, for the area, and clearly analysing in that strategic document the economic, architectural, heritage, commercial and, of course, social perspective so that it can be revitalized. And so we have to provide these centres that are created, the Rexurbe centres, which are the management offices of this Rexurbe Plan, which will be equipped with multidisciplinary staff to logically encourage the revitalization of these historical helmets; and, of course, funded sixty percent with funds from the Galician Union. Because we have to talk about a law that has an important economic memory; no one has talked about economic memory, it doesn't matter. Because here we were used to, at the time of the Bipartite — and I had the fortune of being rapporteur of some of the laws that came here — we missed — and so we said clearly — an economic memory, because the rest, many times, are offered to the sun. Here you're forecasting over one hundred and thirteen million in three years; that's economic memory, and you have to say that. Of course, if we want this to work, we have to budget it, but the Union has a forecast in that direction. And we're talking about that, of the twenty-six historical helmets declared BIC right now, you could be able to create sixteen Regourbe areas to act on over 9,000 buildings -- something more than seventeen thousand dwellings, it's estimated -- and I think that's a very important prediction and action that should be applauded. And logically, I don't think it's any problem for the municipalities to license directly. The three hundred and thirteen Galician municipalities in various performances will be able to license directly in those cases where there are no protected elements; yes, they can give them, why not? Now there's the heritage circular itself, which already authorizes them to a large extent, but it's collected in the law, and they're going to be allowed to expand and expand. And if this law provides for the joint use of portals with a maximum of three buildings, and this can be regulated in special plans and plans. But that's a necessary demand, because, in many cases, buildings are so narrow and so little entity that it's impossible to put up an elevator or comply with accessibility regulations; by the way, a demand that we demand from here to the Government of the Union in the proposal that has been approved: improvements and taking into account the accessibility of buildings, energy efficiency and other series of plugins that are included and contemplated in this law. The regularization of plots, which is also said, but is not read all: the regularization of plots when they have been distorted, and can be regularized to return to the original state. It changes a lot, I think it's all the opposite of what you said, all the opposite! And add plots: yes, to meet precisely accessibility or habitability. Of course, multi-educture set projects are allowed to create common spaces for that set that can be rehabilitated. We think that's a positive issue, why not?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u17	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u18	Yes, I'm going to finish Mr. President. I just wanted to tell you, to finish, that we are at a time for the debate; precisely today the deadline for filing allegations to the articulated. I hope to count on all of you for these presentations and this presentation work with the various contributions that groups make to reach the greatest possible consensus and thus achieve the best possible law for all the Greeks and the Greeks. Because of one thing if we're sure about the People's Party: in the field of rehabilitation, it's very important to look at the past, but with your eyes on the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u19	Thank you, Mr. Castineiras. Now I want to greet the students and students from the Valle-Inclán centre of Pontevedra. They're ESO room students. Welcome to Parliament, as well as to the teachers who accompany them and accompany them. And now yes, replica of the amending group. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Torregrosa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u20	Listening to your voice, Counselor, and seeing your arguments, we see that, of course, there can be no consensus in this law. Of course, a law of rehabilitation is necessary, but as a complement and respecting the criteria already set out in existing laws, not leaving aside the Law of Heritage, the Law of Housing and the Law of Land. If your voice is dedicated only to making shocking remarks by the opposition parliamentarians, devaluing critical reflections on this legislative barbarism, you will hardly stop doing what you always do. It's a barbarism, it's an absolute disrespect! What happens is that you want to make political measures and political propaganda about things, and, unfortunately, the real analysis of the opposition partners, who do our work, is to see the truth behind all these policies, which are propaganda policies. But behind it there is a use of the assets of the heritage, which remain unprotected, and which belong to citizenship, to the Greeks and to the Greeks, who have the right to continue living in the old helmets and which have the right not to benefit the policies of the Government of the United States to large companies that want to invest in private parking in historic centers. But can you read the law? Which is what we did. So — and I continue — I think you really do what you always do: do not argue in front of a table so that the opposition and all of us can bring our concerns and make the most of it for citizenship, but always go directly to the direct economic beneficiaries, lobbies that push them to make the most of the land. Interestingly, the same autonomous administration — its own — that does not allow coastal councils to administer their public spaces now will allow the administrations to take direct responsibility for the municipalities, which have neither the means nor the budgets to ensure the necessary valuation of these spaces of common cultural interest. I don't think they're listening to the demands of the collectives. I really don't think so. I think they only listen to monetary value, the value of lobbies and economic value; they leave the heritage unprotected and a lot of people who are going to live and who are currently living in these old helmets, and they leave unprotected all the heritage that is not specifically catalogued, even though it is in spaces that must be absolutely protected, because Galicia's architectural and territorial peculiarity is very fragile. And you've seen how, little by little, and thanks to the policies that you're doing, we've got less population in rural areas and less population in old helmets, which are dying for lack of help, for lack of oxygen, for lack of budget support and for lack of policies and strategies that you don't have to be able to get out of this situation. And since they don't have these strategies, what do they do? Leave it, directly, as they do with everything—as they do with health, as they do with education—; what they do is they go directly to private capital, because they believe that private capital and economic regulation will solve all the problems that you have the responsibility to solve, because for that you are the Government of Galicia. That's why you're politicians: to create strategies and frameworks so that things go not as the market wants, but how it's best for everyone, for all citizenship. And that's why we are: to remind you of what your obligations are. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Torregrosa. Debate taken into account by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, organ of supplementary transfers to Galicia in the area of traffic, vehicle traffic and road safety
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u22	The spokesperson for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga, to present the bill.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u23	Good morning. This presentation has a certain component of janja vu, because we have done something similar in 2008, which gave rise to a debate in which we unanimously approved a text which is identical to what we are presenting today, and this has been brought to the Congress of Deputies. There, unfortunately, we did not have the echo we should have had, given the unanimous position of the Galician Parliament, and this proposal was rejected. Today, again, we start this procedure, which is a long process, as you know. And I could do the same intervention I did here ten years ago or at the Congress of Deputies a little later. Arguments are significantly similar. Only allow me to indicate that this is — let us say — the use of Article 155.2 of the Constitution. We're using a constitutional forecast, a transfer that has its complications, because it's an exclusive competition from the state. But in this article 150.2 it contains that, when these exclusive powers, by their nature, are susceptible to decentralization, it is possible to do so through an organic law. But for this organic law there are different procedures, and one of them, which is the same thing we used in 2008, is that the Autonomic Parliament urges the Congress of Members to take that bill into consideration. This is what we're doing. I remember the intervention of the spokesperson for the People's Party at that time, who said that this was the constitutionally most orthodox way. Well, we're using the constitutionally more orthodox route. This is the way, this is the way that we now open, that will take your time and that I hope this time, the basis of insist... also in the case of AP-9 we must insist. We know that it is necessary to knock the doors at that time when they have, for some reason, a position that allows them to be frank. Then we'll try again. And let me briefly explain the reasons that were already in the year 2008 and that they are still alive today. This is a law that wants to improve the living conditions of Galicians and Greeks. It is true that, if we were to get Congress to take this position of Galicia into consideration, we would approach what is a wish that has not long expressed the President of the Council of Galicia and that we share: that our competences, the competences of Galicia, come closer to those of the Basque Country and Catalonia. We're in this, we want this to be true, we really want to do it. And taking this law into account, if it reached the Congress of Deputies, it would allow us to move on that path. We think it's best for Galicia. But it does not come up with that approach to the competences of other autonomous communities to defend the virtuality of that law. If the law wasn't useful, if it wasn't allowed to better manage this competition, if it wasn't allowed to improve the lives of the Greeks and the Greeks, it wouldn't make much sense, simply by homologating with other autonomous communities. We are in favour of this law, too, because we believe it's a useful law, it's a law that allows public policies to develop more effectively. We all know that Galicia has a higher road sinequality than the average of the autonomous Spanish communities. It has a road sinisterity that has fallen a lot in recent times — it's true — but it still has a much worse comparative position, for various reasons: We have a dispersed population, with a very high number of secondary roads, which generate a daily displacement for very different reasons — of work, leisure, medical consultations, bureaucratic procedures... finally, for all the reasons that we can imagine—which make these secondary roads very crowded with pedestrians, bikers, pick-ups, vans, tractors or other agricultural machinery, which they must do, in addition, every day of the year or many days of the year in order to make their life more comfortable, in a context, in addition, in which the public transport that unites these populations with these leisure or work centres is very insufficient. We also know that we have an aging population, but that, because of that scattered population, you need to use your vehicle, and often you live alone and the displacement in your vehicle is absolutely bound to meet your vital needs. We know that we have a car park that, proportionally to the rest of Spain, is a little older, too, and this makes accidents more likely and increases the number of accidents. We know that we have a complicated orography: this is a country where the lines have names and the curves have numbers; this is the type of country we have. I remember going to Our Lady when I was a boy, and we were looking forward to the arrival of Caldas, because it was the only consistent line that was on the whole route from Our Lady to Vigo. [[Laughter]] I mean, this is part of our geography. We have a country where the climate also makes it difficult to travel, as the valleys manage many days covered with fog and the rain makes the roads more dangerous. In fact, if you miss it, the days when it starts to rain are days when it usually increases the number of accidents. This is the situation we have, and, of course, this is not changed by transfer, it's not about changing this. Many of these parameters are hardly modifiable in the short and medium term, and some of them aren't even. We do not have the capacity, from the public point of view, to act on these elements. But the fact is that public policies can be modulated to fit these circumstances, and that's where we should look. Road traffic and safety is one of the areas where Spanish public policies have been most effective in recent times. We have managed to substantially reduce the number of deaths, the number of deaths and the number of injuries, but Galicia always appears above, showing the same slope descending but always far above the Spanish average. And it is in that distance between us and other similar autonomous communities in which we must act, through public policies that — I say — may have a very significant short-term impact on the number of disasters and the number of preventable deaths. Our youth has one of the main causes of death in traffic accidents, but the highest, and there we should have a special sensitivity. I'm not giving too much data, let me just have two. In the last year of my reference, in Galicia there were 104 people killed in traffic accidents; in Catalonia, 185; in the Basque Country, 31. Of course, if we make a comparison by number of inhabitants, because we are in 38 dead by million inhabitants and the Basque Country in 14, and this is happening again in recent times. The Basque Country has been managing since 1993... or before — Catalunya since 1993 and Basque Country since before — its own competences in traffic and road safety. I don't mean that Galician management will allow us to go straight to the level of the Basque Country, but we could try to substantially reduce that gap. To modulate public policies in this case, in terms of traffic and road safety, to adapt them to specific conditions in Galicia, should allow them to be more effective and partially reduce those preventable deaths, and I think we should all be in this. The spokesperson for the People's Party, Mr Puy, also said in that debate — and I share that position — that it is not essentially an ideological issue, it is not an identity issue, but it is a question of rationality, of the rational distribution of powers, of power. I continue to think that this is the case, and therefore I propose that they vote in favour of this bill, which initiates a long procedure. In order to complete your proceedings, you must accompany a sufficient amount of the Autonomic Police. There's a competition parallel to this but it has a different procedure, which is the transfer of powers from the Autonomic Police, with hundreds of agents who would live in Galicia and who would be responsible for developing traffic skills. For that we do not need Article 152 of the procedure in Congress, we need a negotiation in the Joint Transfer Commission, between the Government of Spain and the Government of Galicia, which can be produced in parallel with this procedure. The procedure we started today is not going to succeed — we are in the electoral period, then I will talk a little about it — in the very short term, we need a year and a half or two years, and at that time we should also be able to negotiate the expansion of the functions and the agents of the Autonomic Police using the corresponding article of the Galician Autonomy Statute. So we can do both processes in parallel. Today I propose this because it is the most prolific, the most complex and the most time-consuming. In the few minutes I have left, I would like to devote some arguments to the context in which this debate takes place. First, the proximity of the next general election. I think this is a chance, I don't see it as a problem. The general elections are subject in Spain—it is not necessary to say—to uncertainty about its results—there is always, but in this case certainly more than ever—so they place us—he said the other day in a press round—in which the American philosopher John Rawls called—I used it metaphorically—an "original" position, where we have a veil of ignorance, we don't know what's going to happen. I mean, we don't know what government we're going to refer this initiative to, what Congress is going to refer this initiative to; what government will be, what the composition of Congress will be, so we should be able to make today the decision on this bill and when it comes back here for its final consideration, without tactical considerations, without any calculations on whether the People's Party will have to be defined because it's a majority or the Socialist Party doesn't know that... We don't know what's going to happen, we act in favour of Galicia's interests, regardless of any tactical consideration, because that's what the veil of ignorance gives us, would allow us to do so. So this is going to photograph them more, there's no tactical considerations. We believe this is a competition that must be exercised by Galicia, and we believe it in this situation or in a different situation, so we will vote in favour. And we would ask everyone to act on that line. And the next consideration, and last, has to do with the debate in Spain. I'm a firm defender of the advantages of the autonomic model, but I think that's not just to say, but to prove and exercise it. It is a model that is being attacked by the School of Centralism and the Caribdis of Independence. Some say it's just passed out to the autonomous communities, that the state is discarnated, that it can no longer be weakened and therefore nothing to give up competence to the autonomous communities. And in view of this, I say that autonomous communities are also state, and therefore a transfer of competences to autonomous communities means -- if it is made in a constitutionally viable way, by agreement of all -- also strengthening the state and not weakening it. [[Applause]] And secondly — that I have little time — I think the best example we can give to the independentist world — in this Catalan case — is to show you that when there is agreement between all groups, when there is cross-sectional and non-political blocs, the autonomous state has enough plasticity to adapt to the needs of populations that, as in the case of Galicia, form a unique people with unique characteristics. And this has great value, because it means that we don't let ourselves be blocked by vetoes from any of the extremes, that we firmly believe in the possibilities offered by the Autonomic State, and that we're willing to put them on the table and defend them clearly. We need to make a radical defense of moderate ideas, such as the defence of the autonomous state, because this is the best guarantee that we are able to face the risks and dangers that threaten us from different places. And this is what I propose to you today to do: that we maintain the positions of those we have already been in the debate of the year 2008-2010; and those who were not as such, I'm sure you will have the sensitivity to completing Galician competences, in an area, in addition, in which we can, undoubtedly — i.e., I think we must defend the policies of the Directorate-General for Traffic, the actions of the Civil Guard and the other bodies involved in this — to be able from the proximity to make a more effective management of traffic and road safety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u24	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Now we greet the second and third students of the ESO of the centre of Moncho Valcarce, of the Bridges, and also the teachers, who accompany us today. You are welcome to Parliament. Mr Bará, of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u25	Thank you. How much I like to hear here the name of Moncho Valcarce, a fighter in defense of our land, of our territory. Welcome to the student of the institute of the Bridges that accompanies us in this plenary. How many Monchos Valcarce needs these days! [[Applause]] It's about the transfer of traffic skills and road safety, and the truth is, I don't know how to qualify, I think it's a real paradox. We are debating the admission of a law which has already been passed by this Parliament, unanimously on 8 April 2008 — certainly on the initiative of the BNG — the Law on the transfer of traffic, the movement of vehicles and road safety. Ten years later we argue the same law again with the same wording, there's no copyright here, and one might wonder why. Why are we, ten years later, debating the same law? Because Mr. Leicega, who was the protagonist of that part of history and also is now, hasn't told the whole story, hasn't told it all. He said that "unfortunately we didn't have the expected echo," this is a very smooth way to tell what happened. The reality is that that law has not entered into force, competition has not been transferred, because it has been vetoed in the State Parliament by the Socialist Party and the People's Party, it must be said so clearly. [[Applause]] The Socialist Party because it voted against, and the People's Party because it abstained, and if it did not abstain, the law would be passed. Neither do you, Mr. Fernández Prado. [[Mr. Fernández Prado speaks words that are not perceived.]] What you see here is something I don't know if you're alone: that if you vote one thing here and another in Madrid, we've also seen it in the AP-9 case, right? It's the exchange of papers in the state parties according to the convention... according to the convention, no, according to the order in Madrid, because in this the delegations here in Galicia, the branches, don't count anything, who sends it is Madrid; in any case, they use Galicia as a currency of exchange. Mr. Leicega also told us that Euskadi has very low figures of road sinality and mortality. Of course, because he has the competences in traffic and road safety, which we could already have since 2010; because he also has a police officer; and because he also has a different funding than we have and he has ways to have better roads, better investments and a whole range of issues that really matter on this subject. So this is really a story lesson. I should also like to remind you who voted — besides the BNG, who voted the same here and the same in Madrid — in favour of this transfer, I don't know if they are alone: the PNV, ICU, the Republican Left of Catalonia. I don't know if they miss BNG's alliances, so, with this information, who was at that time in favor of the interests of our country. This theme is the need for Greek nationalism in Madrid, for its own political forces that have no obedience or submission to foreign interests, and many more, in addition. History repeats itself, and the same thing that has happened to the transfer of traffic, we have lived it and endured it in recent years with the whole debate and the whole process of the transfer of AP-9. Three years lost because of the People's Party, which vetoed the process, through the Government and through the Bureau of Parliament, of that transfer. And after the admission of the proceedings, after the veto by the Government of the Socialist Party has been lifted, it will remain in the dry dock again. And this also has responsibilities because it's been two and a half months and they haven't been able to process it through a single reading emergency route. [[Murmurs.]] It's a shame I'm going to Congress today when there's no material time to deal with it, it's going to be a new frustration, and this is responsible. You have to say it, you have responsibility. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, there were other options — good, of the People's Party and of the Socialist Party —. If there was a real willingness to transfer AP-9, they would sit in the Joint Committee on Central Government Transfers, agree on the conditions and set in motion what is already agreed on in that law. But there was no will, Mr Feijóo made it clear in public statements in this Parliament that he did not want the transfer of AP-9, which was not worth that law. And why do we want transfers in the area of traffic, traffic and road safety? Because it is a fundamental competency to fight more effectively the crusader, the dramatic reality of traffic accidents, which are real human dramas, social dramas, and which also have very high economic costs for our society. The reality is that the figures in recent years are extremely worrying, and much more so the figures in 2018 and the evolution in recent times of accident data, data from people injured. It's a figure that doesn't usually come out on headlines, but there are thousands of people injured, with permanent sequelae for life, which are also terrible dramas that have to suffer. Also the increase in deaths by pedestrians and cyclists, or deaths in cities — a figure that also appears little in statistics and have increased in recent times — in urban nuclei, which increased from 17 in 2013 to 32 — almost double — in 2017. And here -- let's say it -- there are successful experiences in cities -- in a particular, internationally awarded city -- that have to be taken as a reference to avoid this terrible drama of people who die in the pedestrian passage in our cities. This we believe should be done with the highest institutional and social participation, with all means, all competences, with the leadership of the Galician Union, which must sit on the same table to all administrations, to all social agents, to fight with the greatest effectiveness and with all means this drama, and also with a new road safety plan, which our country needs. For the People's Party — it has been shown in recent times — that is not — I say — a priority, no urgency, no relevance. He said this after adopting in Commission 1 a BNG initiative which proposed that Galicia be equal to the maximum achieved by Catalonia and Euskadi. And at the end of a week, he was disillusioned with what he had adopted, he withdrew from what he had voted for, because he stood at the orders of the People's Party of Madrid, of Mr. Casado; because he stood at the orders of the centralist agenda and would react to Mr. Casado. And that's not strange, either, because we already know that Mr. Feijóo is able to modify his agenda as President of the Union to go to a centralist, Spanishist event called by the People's Party next to the ultra-right. That is what Mr Feijóo cares about the agenda for the presidency of the Union! That agreement was a mirrorism, after a few days the People's Party was again submissive, helpful and also coherent, perfectly coherent and transparent. What the People's Party has come to say is that it would do the same thing it would do over the last ten years, i.e. not claim or achieve any state competition. I'm looking for a transfer chip in ten years! Now they say that the transfer of competition is not a priority, that it is not a guarantee to combat road-trafficking more effectively. The truth is, you're more centralists and more Spanishists, even than those in Madrid, compete with the ultra-right. We, of course, consider this to be an essential transfer and that it must also be accompanied by the development of the Welsh Police. We already have a law of the year 2007 that hasn't developed, and it hasn't developed because the People's Party Government hasn't. So we're here before we have no traffic competition, nor do we have the development of the police itself; an administrative, judicial police, with competences also in citizen security; an integral Welsh police, not that successor who call the autonomic police, which is not even such a thing, is a unit of the police, the state police, with a suit and with a stamp other than the police unit, but nothing to do with a deployment — as was foreseen — of 2,400 troops. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, our vote will be in favour of admission to the proceedings of this bill because the BNG has also registered a similar one. In any case, we do not know on the part of the proposed group whether it is an amendment amendment — not in this case with forgiveness of sins. We call for coherence and consequence; let it not be a new ridicule, let it not be a new deception, let it not be a new frustration like the one suffered in the case of AP-9, as in the bill which was approved by this House unanimously in 2018 and which was put down in Madrid by the group that now proposes it in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u26	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u27	They have therefore been lost eight years, and this — I say again, even if it bothers — is responsible: they are called the Socialist Party and the People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u28	Thank you, Mr Bará. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u29	Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the En Marea Group will vote in favour of the admission of this bill and, of course, we are particularly curious, on the one hand, to hear Mr Leicea when he concludes this speech and to explain the contradictions of the Socialist Party in this matter; and we are particularly curious to hear the intervention of the Group of the People's Party, of the militants of Galicia. We are going to support this process for different reasons. First of all, to comply with the agreement of this House, of the Greek Parliament, of April 2008 — as Mr Bará has already explained — the date on which many of us were not here but if we knew it. Since he didn't do it when he had to, see if eleven years later we were able to comply with this House's agreements; an agreement like so many, which is not met, in institutional respect and in compliance with the holy grail of the Constitution and our institutional order. Mr Feijóo, Galician top militant, primarily as President of the Union — because in Galicia, according to them, he is ruling for Galicia — and his team of mega-makers, however, did not move a finger to comply with this House agreement. Maybe in 2007 or 2008 the story was very different from 2019. In 2008, the spokesperson of the People's Party, Mr. Jesús Palmou, who defended his position on the initiative of Mr. Bará spoke, endorsed the proposed transfer law and attacked the PSOE because they did not facilitate that transfer from the Government of the State — and he did so rightly. And then, when Mr. Rajoy arrived with the excuse of the crisis, despite the recovery, he didn't seem so ugly enough not to comply with this agreement, there was an excuse already. That's what the political schizophrenia that guides them, that causes them to be defending positions of interest and contradictions that have no basis for their conviction or ideology; therefore, they're bluffing, making or defusing or standing depending on whether they're in government or opposition, and not just the People's Group. It's really singing, it's very singing. They came to Junta, and Rajoy to the state, and they totally changed their posture. To see today what a surprise they have and how they go according to the surveys, the orders they have from Mr. Married or the crates of their new allies from the right ultra... This is a very serious issue, and our second reason for supporting this initiative is the data of charity in Galicia. Last year, 2018, came — as has been said — to 104 dead and killed on the Greek roads. From 2008 to 2018 1,278 people died, not counting the thousands injured with life-threatening sequelae. Since 2011 the number of accidents with victims has increased by 40%, clear statistics that since 2011 have not ceased to grow. It's data showing, on the one hand, the failure of the Feijóo Government and its super megastores, the efficient ones, and their evil done in Galicia; and in the state with Mr. Rajoy, who were very close to Gürtel and other needys. You don't understand, if this is beneficial to the Greeks and the Greeks, if this transfer is beneficial, why Mr Feijóo — who agreed in 2008 and voted in this House — did nothing, why they didn't move a finger to comply with this agreement almost eleven years later. And we don't understand why the Socialist Party — as it has already been said — then vetoed this initiative in the Congress of Deputies along with the People's Party. Maybe it's sovereignism and independence, a question that puts people's lives at risk. You should explain it the same way right now, already in 2019, to Mr. Rivera and Mr. Abascal, to see if you influence more on Mr. Married than they do. And they don't defend Galicia and the Greeks and the Greeks to mice; neither according to the question of turn nor the squire they can come in turn. And I hope Mr. Sánchez has made it clear, too, and I apply exactly the same rule as you. The interests and needs of the Greeks and the Greeks have been too often on the road, their competitors on the right, their new alliances, their demoscopy... we hope that the Socialist Party will do something different than what it has already done. And yes, they should stay on their way, but they should stay on their way over such serious ideologies, and do the right thing and the logical thing for the people of our country. I hope that they will not enter a new collapse and that political campaign schizophrenia will not make them forget what they voted for in Commission 1st, who voted to have the same powers as Basquedi and Catalonia and claimed them. What if Euskadi and Catalonia already have this competition? Isn't this enough for you? I think it's a clear outrage! Because budgets are fundamental but not as you understand them but to improve the lives of the Greeks and the Greeks in their use, as well as the transfer of competences. Therefore, political decentralization, the transfer of competences and self-government, especially in matters as sensitive as this, the matter of trafficking, which, as it has been said, directly affects the quality of life and the protection of traffic by roads, both in vehicles and pedestrians, is a very serious matter that should be given due attention. This self-government, this transfer, has the object of improving the living conditions of the Greeks and the Greeks and protecting their lives through specific public policies for our country in this case on trafficking, and that, as you will understand, is neither independence, nor rupture of the state, nor anything at all; that is pure common sense and thinking of the people we want to rule here in Galicia. In Galicia we have our own idiosyncrasy as a nation and as a country, something that is positive, that is valuable and that needs to be treated differently. We have a different climate, with much more rain, chills, winds, temporals. There is a geographical dispersion with a high rate of depopulation and a great aging in some territorial nuclei that need to be addressed in a concrete way. A type of secondary roads that increase the dangers to the citizenship they pass. If we increase the dangers for the normal transit of the Greeks and the Greeks, we must take measures, and that is why it is essential to have our own instruments and tools, the Greeks, to save the lives of the Greeks and the Greeks, and not to suffer the consequences for what remains of their lives. Not only to collect money with fines, which we already know is that they serve as deterrent effects, but that much more can be done with competition, awareness, information, training. We need instruments and tools in the form of public policies that are adapted to our reality, to our needs. Adapt public policies to the territory, yes, to the nations we live in within the Spanish state. Don't be afraid to say it, that even your blessed Constitution recognizes it! We have distinct, specific characteristics and needs, so it's so important to have public policies to choose from. The streets of Madrid, Andalusia, its territory and its orography have nothing to do with the Greeks and the Greeks, absolutely nothing to do with it! And if we want to improve people's lives and save their lives through management, prevention and all these issues that depend on having their own self-government, then let's do it to avoid these human dramas. It's something you can solve, improve people's lives by anticipating the problems that exist and that we already know through public policies. Recognizing this, gentlemen, it's called plurinationality. This is what this type of proposals, measures and laws are called: self-government and decentralization of competition policy. And we are what we stand for: a multinationality designed for people, for people, for the Greeks and for the Greeks, not for money, neither power, no tactics, no bad marketing, no flags, no flags! This is solving people's problems. That's why we didn't change the poll out of the way, according to what a certain ally says, when he was caught by a slash, we kept the same thing. Tell Mr. Marriedo, and passing by to Mr. Abascal and Mr. Ribera, that this is very serious, is the life of the citizens. And it was found — as was said — in Euskadi that having a political decentralization, having this competence and making appropriate public policies — the Basque Country has similar characteristics to the Greek territory and so on — that the rate of claims has been reduced. So, if this is good for everyone, we hope to be moderate and voted in favour of this transfer, which we are eleven years late and the Greeks and the Greeks believe we deserve something different. Let everyone be clear in their positions and don't say. Say it but do it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u31	Thank you, President. Good morning, Your Honor. Let me start by telling you what our position in the field of transfers is. In the past, the president of the Union himself, I think, clearly exposed the position of our group, but I think it's not wrong to repeat it, given how distorts any of the opposition groups. We fully defend the Constitution, the Statute and the autonomous framework. We aspire to more and better self-government, according to our constitutional status of historical nationality. We reserve the right to assess whether Galicia should assume any competition that is transferred to another autonomous community. And we want to move forward in defending our real and useful self-government, according to an orderly plan and setting priorities. Precisely for that, we need to be clear about the real priorities that Galicia has but also take into account the political opportunity. It doesn't seem the most appropriate to raise this demand at a time when independent groups in Spain are generating major territorial tensions, unless you want to mix with some concession to separatists and serve as an alibi. Besides, they do it right after the board proposed that the central government prioritize those transfers, wanting to mark a different agenda and different from that of the government. Forgive me, but the agendas mark the parties and governments that win, not the losers, who choose to do so. [[Applause]] It seems more of a party interest, Mr. Leicega, to give Sánchez a hand instead of defending Galician interests. And, within this defense of Galicia and our self-government, we will not fall into these smoke curtains of the socialists to hide unacceptable budgets which, in addition, were also endorsed by En Marea. [[Murmurs.]] The position of the Union, of this group, and also of our spokesperson — which you have remembered — remains the same as ever. We do not give up the aspiration to the maximum competitive ceiling, similar to what is marked for any of the historic communities, and we are in favour of demanding new transfers to Galicia whenever they are useful and whenever they improve management; in addition, always with a prioritisation that must establish the government chosen by the Greeks. And for this, first of all, we have to talk about financing; no new competition if it is not equipped with the necessary funding. We're in favour of this traffic transfer, we've already said it and voted on it on several occasions, but we're also saying that this can't be a smoke curtain to avoid prioritising other more urgent and immediate needs that are transferred to the central government. And what are these priorities? Priority one. You need to complete the autonomic police staff. We have 400 agents where there should be 500; these 100 agents are an immediate emergency. By the way, a similar situation occurred in 2012, when the People's Party ruled, and 140 new troops were covered, and 64 were consolidated. This is what we have to do. First, complete this autonomous police; by the way, it is devoted to such important issues as fire, theft or violence. We're going to talk a lot about this whole macho violence. We know that what cuts human resources to fight against this macho violence in Galicia is the Government of Mr. Sánchez, the Government of the Socialist Party, who does not cover those hundred squares that have already been requested on two occasions by our Vice-President of the Union to the Minister of the Interior. Priority number two -- we've talked about this quite a lot, I think, in this legislation -- the transfer of AP-9 at no extra cost to the Greeks. I mean, Mr Bará, you can't be at any price and paying more than the rest. And we've already said so, transfers yes, but let's go over that round business that the Socialist Party signed 1 percent cumulative in the beaches a few years ago. Why don't you focus your AP-9 efforts without those extra costs? [[Murmurs.]] AP-9 is a door for the following transfers. That's why we've talked enough and we can keep talking. Priority three. Let us pay the concessions to the independenceists of the Government of Sanchez, I think it's also an important priority! A fall of investments endorsed and signed by En Marea, by Mr. Pablo Iglesias with the signature below with the Anagram of En Marea; an unprecedented fall, the worst budgets for Galicia that are remembered. A downturn in investments of 20% and only 27%; while Catalonia raises 57% of investments, 210 million euros. What's his name? This is the way the Socialist Government has to pay those favors and pay those negotiations for going on in Moncloa, 210 million. When the government budgeted 8%, they sucked; the People's Party Government arrived, it went up to 11% territorialized and they were bad; and now you go back even lower, to 6%, and they want us to applaud. No, Sanchez's debts to the independenceists don't have to pay them to the Greeks. Priority four. That compensation is paid to those we have the right to be an autonomous community that manages well and responsibly. We speak of EUR 85 million per year in the period 2018 to 2020, a total of EUR 255 million. Look, this was already included in the 2018 budgets. We want the 2018s to be paid and the 2019s and 2020s to follow. The key to improving our self-government, gentlemen, is not having any more competence to have, but to exercise those that are held with solvency and guarantee of the future and with the budgets to which we are entitled and we are committed. So by correcting a few bad budgets for Galicia, transferring AP-9 at no extra cost to the Greeks, completing the autonomic police staff and paying the 255 million compensations, it's the way to start talking about self-government, gentlemen of the Socialist Party. And that can be done already from the Government even if it's in function. But, against this, what we're seeing over the last few weeks is a battery of proposals for new transfers after years of forgetfulness. And they do the same -- they did remind them -- that with their votes in the past they prevented approval -- I don't know if it's out of a bad conscience, they already told them. I'd be transferred today if I hadn't voted against the Socialist Party. The People's Party did not object — if it did not oppose, Mr Bará — it was the majority votes the Socialist Party had in Congress that prevented in 2010 that we had now passed this law and already in operation. And it's not the first time. Let's remember that in 2007 the Bipartite also opposed the transfer of AP-9; in 2008, despite voting this, the Socialist Party stopped this transfer in Congress; in 2011 — the president remembered it the other day — when the new list of drugs was made, the Socialist Government was opposed, and he was taken to the Constitutional Court, because he said that there was an invasion of state competence. These are self-government! And now the Socialist Party wants to teach us about self-government, when what you're doing is simply cutting our self-government through budgets and creating a smoke curtain to hide these unacceptable budgets. Or else — which may be the other solution — that we serve as an alibi to open up other transfers that were previously denied and give cover to those twenty-one points of Mr. Torra. Mr. Leicega, tactics are from the PSdG, not from the People's Party. What brings these things to cover others is the Socialist Party, we didn't bring them to us. I have to finish, I don't have much time to talk about road safety. We have already been moved to an important issue for Galicia, indeed, the rapporteurs in the Committee on Road Safety, which, unfortunately, is not panacea either. If it is true that the issue of road safety has multiple factors — some more important ones, which have been mentioned here —. Of course, you take the year 2018, which is the worst data; you get from 2011 to 2018, when Galicia is the third community where the sinisterity of all Spain is most underestimated. And in 2017 — it collects the data from 2017 — it's the one that has reduced the most sinisterity of all Spain. It takes a period of ten years and you'll see there's no direct topic, because Galicia, without having the transfer, has done better data than many of the autonomous communities you name. In conclusion — and by the end of it — our position has not changed. We say what we've always been saying. We defend the Constitution and the Statute of principle in the end; also included Article 27(25) of the Statute of Self-Government, which takes up this competence. We believe that the most appropriate thing the Government is doing is prioritising these demands. So precisely because we prioritize and defend this Government, we believe that these priorities must be set. Traffic transfers are yes, but first commitments to AP-9, autonomic police personnel, money already recognized in the state's general budgets of 2018 by good management of Galicia, and some budgets for 2019 that at least recognize what was already in 2018.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u32	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u33	I'm done, president. Although, of course, you know that these things will be done by the next Government of the People's Party from June onwards, I tell you that we will defend the police model defined in Galicia, that it will take on trafficking and that it will not diminish any other functions that the State plays in Galicia through the National Police and the Civil Guard. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] So we're not going to obstruct the law process, but we won't forget to demand what's urgent. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u34	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. Replica. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u35	I would like first of all to thank the BNG and En Marea groups for supporting this initiative. I expected it to be like that. Anyway, as I'm asked to explain what's going on, because I want to tell you very loudly. We, in Galicia, defended in 2008, continue to defend today and defend throughout all this time that we must manage traffic and road safety and that we must complete the police. [[Applause]] If they tell me, can you assure me that at the Congress of Deputies...? [[Murmurs.]] I'm telling them no, I'm telling them openly no, we're going to try. In any case, what I perceive in the current Government — in the Government which is not yet in office because Parliament is not yet dissolved — is a sensitivity to the development of the autonomous state far superior to that which has replaced, and therefore we believe there is an opportunity. Because when there is a negotiation with PNV of 33 competences, we say that this is the opportunity for Galicia to move forward. And in politics you have to have the convictions and you have to have the ability to take advantage of the opportunities that you have; and this is one of them, so we present it. I understand there's an electoral situation that makes many of the words finally have that goal of marking a position of their own. Surely, many of you would like us not to have these autonomous convictions, but we have them, we have them! [[Murmurs.]] We are in favour of expanding self-government. Expanding it within the Constitution, with the rules laid down in the Constitution, because it can be done. And we're gonna keep trying. I can't thank the People's Party for their position because, besides, I don't share it, I don't understand it. I mean, there was the same situation in 2008 and 2010, the same situation!, and before they said yes and now they say no. The president of the Union and president of his group said three weeks ago that he wanted to reach the competence level of the Basque Country and Catalonia, and now they vote against starting that path. That's the part that I didn't understand. Look: in the debate of the state of Autonomy of 2018, only four months ago, we adopted with its support a motion for a resolution saying, "Take all possible political action" — one of them is to pass this law — "to achieve the maximum in the quotas of self-government for Galicia in accordance with the Constitution of Spain". If this law we are presenting is not to comply with the motion for a resolution that you voted in favour, they will tell me; and they do not, however, vote in favour. [[Applause]] And why is that? Well, after all this, I think the clearest explanation is the press headlines that have been read in the last few weeks. "Married wants more power for the state." "The leader of the PP warns"—was reading or ABC— "who will not support "one more transfer"—warning or leader of the PP— "and opens a process of decentralization", "recovering competences in education, justice, health and prisons". This is the political program of the People's Party. You fear that if this situation happens that you say, you have to tell Mr. Married that we want Traffic in Galicia, when this is the political position of the People's Party, that is, they're preaching to the People's Party in Madrid. And I think it is reasonable for the People's Group in Congress to make its own decisions, but not to contaminate what we have taken in the Galician Parliament, because in the end what Mr. Casado is doing is importing into the ranks of the People's Party, which was a party up to this moderate moment on that land—moderate on that land compared to what is yet to come, what we are seeing—the Vox's political programme in relation to the state model. And this doesn't seem to me to be the best solution for Galicia; here we are, without a doubt, another folder. And I know it's an electoral calculation -- we'll see it -- but possibly the citizens, when the original and the copy are presented, will prefer the original. We'll see. Finally, Mr. Fernández Prado, you speak — I've noticed because you've called me a lot of attention — of "ten years of forgetfulness." [[Murmurs.]] No, the years of forgetfulness are from the People's Party. ; there was no transfer — no transfer! — to Galicia ruling with an absolute majority here and with an absolute majority in Madrid. [[Applause]] There wasn't... no, no! There was no transfer; there was no attempt to get any more transfers, Mr. Martín Prado, and that's what you have to explain. All these things I'm proposing we'll have a chance to discuss them. We're going to set priorities because we're going to bring here some initiative to set priorities for self-government as well, and we're going to discuss it. But, in any case, it's independent of this, because this goes another way. In order to obtain traffic, an organic law must be adopted, because Article 150.2 must be used; therefore, this is complementary to everything else, complementary. You have to make the decision: either you bet on maintaining coherence, claiming a level of competence similar to that of the Basque Country and of Catalonia, keeping what your president said three weeks ago and keeping what we approved in the debate of the state of autonomy only four months ago, or praying to Mr. Casado's designs, which is ultimately leading to a broader scope what Mr. Santiago Abascal has put forward. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u36	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u37	After the debate on the legislative texts was closed, we proceeded to the vote. Close the doors, please. We begin by voting, firstly, on the amendment to the full refund submitted to the draft law on rehabilitation and urban regeneration and renewal in Galicia. We vote. Voting the amendment to the whole, upon request, of the G.P. in Marea, to the draft law of rehabilitation and regeneration and urban renewal of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 37; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected as a whole.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u38	When the amendment is rejected, the project continues its processing. We now vote to take account of the proposed legislation of the Socialist Parliamentary Group in Galicia. We vote. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, organ of complementary transfers to Galicia in the area of traffic, vehicle traffic and road safety. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; abstentions, 37. The voting is positive. The adoption of this bill is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u39	So that it doesn't happen like this time in Extremeura, it's approved here. In Extremadura there was a confusion that time voting. So this will follow your process in the appropriate commission. The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. We move on to item 2 of the agenda, of appearances. The opinion of Mrs. Counsellor for Social Policy, on his own request, to report on the general lines of action of his department
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u40	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good days. I am today confronted with the plenary session of Parliament in Galicia to take note of the general lines of action which the Social Policy Council will follow at this new stage. I hope to be able to transfer to them what will be the priorities of the social area of the Greek Government towards the next decade and, as I come to this chamber, I do so with full confidence that I will be able to get out of here with the clearer ideas that I have come up with thanks to the new perspectives, suggestions and constructive criticisms that will be formulated by your lordships. Everything we are today is due to those who came before us. No public representative should overlook the fact that the institution he represents is the inheritance of those who came before and a loan to those we are now, and it will be the legacy we leave to those who come after us. That's why I'm convinced that the best way to start this intervention is by thanking my predecessors' commitment, heel and vocation to the Social Policy Council, which today form part of this parliament. I'm talking about Beatriz Mato and José Manuel Rey. [[Applause]] Because we haven't always had a budget that grows every year; this year 2019, five percent. We haven't always had over seven hundred thirty-one million euros to invest in improving the quality of life of the Greeks and the Greeks. We haven't always had a climate of social peace where agreements and consensus are more than punctual discrepancies. We haven't always had the numbers of centers and staff squares we have today, nor the experience we've been building up all these years to meet the challenges of Galicia. If I can be here today to meet the challenges of efficient and useful counseling, it's because of the work Bea and José Manuel have developed; thank you very much. They both know better than anyone to talk about the social area of the Galician Union, it is necessary to do so with humility and realism. With humility, because, much to our sorrow, continues and there will continue to be gales who we are not yet able to give them the answer they need, and with realism, because the aspects that we still play in improving cannot alter the achievements that we have been achieving. The Social Policy Council is not an area of great numbers, it's an area of own names. Names like Balbina's, the employee number 60,000 who was attended here in Galicia; names like Arturo's, Eugenia's, Violet's and Juan's, people I've known in these first few months as advisor and who are the best incentive not to ever remove the towel. Ladies and gentlemen, building a better Galicia is everyone's responsibility; from the social institutions, from the municipalities, from the businesses, from the Galician Parliament and from the Union, it works every day to get a community that cares for the best of its own. The duty of the Greek Government is to order these efforts, oriental, and make the force of the commitment of the Greeks and the Greeks always impact on what they need most. That is why we need more consensus, more desire for dialogue and more social perspective, because the challenges that today bring us today are common for all: to move towards a Galicia, where the difficulties still confront families who want to have children become more consensus, more desire for dialogue and more social perspective, because the challenges that bring us today are common for everyone: to move towards a Galicia where the difficulties still confront families who want to have children become easy; to move towards a Galicia where the birth of a poor and disadvantaged and disadvantaged family is not a life sentence for life, but a circumstance that can be overcome; to move towards a Galicia that brings new people closer to the new people the opportunities they deserve, because our community does not deserve to lose their talent or their potential; to move towards a Galicia that gives them second opportunities and that gives them second chances and in which the wrong decisions of a life have turned back behind, and in which social exclusion is only a temporary condition; to move towards a Galicia with our greatest people; to move towards a Galicia which we have the greatest right, which they have the right to give us what they should give and the right to give and the opportunity to give and the opportunity to give and how we have what we have what we have what we have what we have what we have better better better better better better better better better has has has what we have I trust, with all sincerity, that all groups will subscribe to these objectives that we have set ourselves. I'm also sure we'll know that we don't have to start from scratch, because we've been moving a lot of this way together. It therefore touches on the path proposed by the Social Policy Council to move us towards Galicia that we all want. This route begins from the beginning, from the moment a family makes the most important decision in its life: having a child. We who are mothers or parents know that when a child reaches our life, it's to change everything. There are also certain circumstances that begin to change: there are a lot of expenses that we didn't count on before, and then we have to restructure the family economy, and above all, that all the time we spend with our family starts to seem insufficient. So the first major objective of the Social Policy Council is to give families who decide to have a child as much support as they need; support which translates into more economic benefits and more conciliation resources. Never before in Galicia's history have there been as many facilities as today for people who decide to be mothers or parents. In 2019 there are more than twenty-four thousand public squares of children's schools, twice as many as there were in 2009. In 2019 we have a ratio of coverage of children's schools of forty-two percent, twice what we had in 2009 and nine points above the European Union recommendation. In 2019 there are sixty-one children's homes offering three hundred and five child care squares in the smallest municipalities in all of Galicia. In 2009 there was none. In 2019 there were already four hundred good caretakers, which allow a caretaker to contract on time in the face of possible unforeseen occurrences, such as a child's illness. In 2019 we have granted more than 40,000 cards Welcome — one thousand two hundred euros in the first year of the baby for eighty percent of families — and support up to three years for families with lower incomes: six hundred euros for the first child, one thousand two hundred euros for the second child and two thousand four hundred euros for the third child. [[Applause]] The Greek society is increasingly bubbling up those people who decide to expand their family. So at present we have one of the highest fertility rates in the last two decades, which, of course, does not mean that we can get satisfied or stop working. I believe that all in this parliament, on the other side of the Chamber, we can agree that the demographic situation is, today, the biggest challenge for the future of Galicia. It's more necessary than ever that in this matter there are no party trenches or electoral interests, and that we all settle together for Galicia to be the best place to be born. Within a few months I will go up to this same forum to defend the Greek law of demographic impulse, which at this very moment is developing the Council of Social Policy with closer proximity to the entire Government of Galicia, following the master lines which unanimously marked the Galego Observatory of Demographic Dynamication. In this observatory, all political parties, trade unions, universities, business organisations, social entities, local administration and general government are represented. Ladies and gentlemen, the law of demographic impulse will be born with the vocation of being a law of all, incorporating the perspectives of all and climbing a long-term horizon. And so, I think that what Galicia expects of us is that we know how to put aside these short-term considerations and that we draw forward a law with the same unanimity that the Observatory has achieved. I assure you that in the articulated you will not be able to see the color of any political party, only the blue and white of the flag of Galicia, the community that is playing their future. The German Demographic Impulse Act will introduce to the administration a new way of working, measuring the impact that each decision has on demography. Today I would like to move forward one of the measures that will include this legal text, an initiative that will result in a reduction in the volume of paperwork that families have to present when they request the support of the Public Service. The law of demographic impulse will introduce, for the first time in Galicia, standardized family income, which will serve to homogeneize the income level of each home. In this way, each family will have the same treatment on the part of the entire administration, and conditions will be valued in the same way as numerous, single-parent or disability families, among other things, instead of each line of aid putting the family economy in a different way. This new legal text will improve the efficiency of administration to make it more friendly to families, in addition to contemplating other measures that we will introduce over the next few weeks and consolidate the work done in the last decade. Galicia will continue to add new public squares both in the thirty children's homes that will open between 2019 and 2020 and in the child's school that will open the new course in Vilagarcía, where they will be built in Redondela, in Chapela, in the Snows and in Paderne de Allariz, and in the expansion of two centres in Cedera and in Arzua. In total, we're talking about 300 new public squares that will be at the disposal of the mothers and fathers of these municipalities before the legislation is over. Galicia will continue to strengthen resources at the disposal of families with timely conciliation needs. In this same year, we broadened the bond of care to pay also the service of a ludotec. By 2020 we will continue to improve this service so that the Greek homes have a genuine child-oriented home-help service. And Galicia won't forget either of the children and the children who are in a state of disarray to feed them. To round them up, in these years we have improved the quality of the service offered in the protection centres and, in order to focus on them the government's political action, the 2020 budgets will be, for the first time, children's budgets, which will assess the impact of public accounts on children and children in Greece. The Galician Union is also aware that in order to reverse the demographic challenge, it is necessary to give new opportunities for the young people of Galicia to work and form a family in our community. The data invite us to a moderate optimism: the youth unemployment rate dropped in 2018 by 4.8 percent and has been at least since data was recorded, the number of under 30 years of age who are working has increased by four percent and our migration balance is positive, since there are a thousand and eight hundred young men and girls coming out. This does not mean, of course, that this situation is idyllic or that we can stop working for our youth. We're aware that there's still a lot left to do. Therefore, within our competences, the Social Policy Council will continue to work to enrich the life plan of younger people. That will be the goal of the new 2019-2021 youth strategy plan, which will be approved in the first half of the same year. This plan will seek to meet the needs, concerns and priorities of young and young gales, who are much more heterogeneous, diverse and with much greater potential than some want to make us see. We will talk about youth and entrepreneurship, because the ideas of young people in Wales can — and can always — enrich the economic and cultural fabric of our community. We'll also talk about youth and the rural environment, because our farming has many opportunities for the personal development of younger people, and younger people have ideas and training to grow our farming. And we'll talk, like not, about youth and Jacob 2021, which is the biggest event that Galicia has on the horizon, and where young people and girls will have much to say to make it the best Holy Year in our history. One of the secrets of the hatching of Jacob and the paths of James was knowing precisely how to update and renew his style and his soul. And in order for Galicia to offer again a Holy Year that surprises the whole world, it is necessary for young people to come to their ideas, bring their impulse and their values. These are also the values that characterize Galician volunteers, whatever their age. Volunteering puts a face and heart at the very best of our land: solidarity, altruism and work for others. Galicia is the most supportive community in Spain, with more than 8,000 volunteers and active volunteers. For them and for them, we are the only Autonomous Community and the only European region that believes voluntary action with a certificate approved and valid throughout the continent, and for them and for them, we will continue to launch voluntary programmes aimed at responding to the great needs of our people. Ladies and gentlemen, the Galicia we want must be a community that supports and sustains those who for some reason have been left behind. Galicia advances, and the whole of the Greeks, whatever their circumstances, must be able to move forward with it. One of the greatest achievements of this legislation in the fight against poverty has already been approved by the Council of the Council of Galicia. I'm talking about the Social Inclusion Act development decree that will raise the risk count from four hundred and fifty to five hundred and fifty. The progress that has been made in this decree is not in the quantitative field, but, in particular, they affect the qualitative field. We start with two convictions: the first, that the best social policy is access to the labour market, and the second, that the starting point of the struggle against social exclusion must be to guarantee the right to housing. Risga improvements respond to these two perspectives. Two new steps are introduced, the integration and the transition to employment, to encourage people receiving Risk to train and do work practices and to be able to match wages and benefits, so that they don't fall into the divergent economy. It allows people who are not unemployed to access the Risk, but who do receive very low wages; it increases the rent supplement for families with children; it introduces the possibility that two people who perceive the Risk share housing to reduce expenses, and it improves compatibility with other social inclusion aids and social rent bonus. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the myths that caricature Galicia as if it were a land in ruins, there are unquestionable facts. Made as in the last ten years it has increased by sixty-seven percent the budget for the fight against poverty; facts like that, since 2009, tripled the amount to finance Risga; facts like the Single Social Agenda that we signed more than two years ago with the social entities and with the Greek municipalities, and of which we have already fulfilled the ninety-six percent of the measures, and done as the offices Reconduce, opened in 2013, which have already dealt with more than two hundred cases of defiance. As a result of the government's commitment and the improvement of the economic situation, today the incidence of poverty is receding: the number of highly-needed families has been reduced by 40 percent in the last year, from 4.1 to 2.4 percent; the AROPE poverty risk rate is four points below the national average, and the average income of the Greek households is in their maximum quotas since there are data. But the path of the Social Policy Council to social inclusion does not end with this decree. As for the rest of legislation, we will continue to work for families who are in social exclusion or are at risk of suffering: we are designing a care plan for homeless people who will respond to the needs of this collective and that we will present in the coming weeks; we will give you a new impetus to dialogue with all the Greek municipalities and poverty-fighting entities; by this year 2019 we will start updating the objectives of the Single Social Agenda, and we will introduce a new certification so that the Greeks and the Greeks can know that companies are working more for the social inclusion of people at risk of poverty. Ladies and gentlemen, the steps that Galicia takes towards the next decade can't turn its back on two collectives of enormous importance: older people and people with disabilities. One in four Greeks and Greeks is over sixty-five years old, and over one hundred and twenty-five thousand people of working age have some kind of disability, so part of our collective success over the next few years will depend on how we know how to respond to their needs. It would be unfair to note that in the last ten years there have been significant improvements in the care of older people and people with disabilities: improvements in the commitment of the Autonomic Administration, for today the Galician Union is dedicated to the dependency of 300 million euros, more than triple in 2009; improvements in the coverage of the dependency system, because today we have over sixty thousand dependents attended, four times more than what we counted in 2009; improvements in the public care network for older people, because today we have over seven hundred thousand nine hundred public residence squares, one and two percent more than a decade ago, and over three thousand three hundred center days ago, the triple that we had ten years ago, and also improvements in the care services of people with disabilities, because today we have over five thousand four hundred public squares, one and five percent more than a decade ago. All these advances do not prevent us from seeing that we still have many great challenges ahead. One of the most important is to ensure that all Galicians and Greeks have the right to choose freely how to grow older. Each and every one of them has a situation, has needs and has different preferences, so the services they provide cannot be the same. Each older person is an active subject with all the right to choose how and where he wishes to be cared for, and the duty of the Galician Union is to provide services of the highest quality, in sufficient amount and with the variety necessary to respond to their demands. For the people who want to grow older in their home, we will continue to strengthen the home aid service, which has already multiplied its extension by ten over the last ten years. For people who want to grow up in their parish, by 2020 Galicia will have sixty houses of the largest that will provide day-to-day services in the smaller municipalities of all of Galicia. For people with moderate dependence this year, regulations have been extended to accommodate cohousing, groups of apartments with common services for older people. At the same time, we will bet on two programs that will carry services to the door of the older people's home: the dinner at home, which will continue to bring up a menu for each day of the week to more than one thousand three hundred people throughout the entire Galician geography, and, from the next few weeks, the RedMay project will also bring up services of ophthalmology, physiology, personal support and attention to alzeimer to twenty small municipalities in our community. The Union will also continue to ensure that many people can become older freely through public services to finance the services that each one chooses. As we have already made progress, several types of dependency benefits will experience significant growth this year: the counties to help a caretaker who belongs to the older person's family will increase by about ten percent; the counties to fund a personal support assistant to persons with disabilities will increase by about fifteen percent, so Galicia will become the Autonomous Community most committed by this service, and the counties to pay a place of residence will increase by about twenty percent for grade 1 and grade 3 and seventy-five — an unprecedented increase — for grade 2 units. I can announce to you that the order that will regulate all these increments is already very advanced, so nineteen thousand Galicians and Greeks will see their dependency provision increased from the April payroll. In this measure we will invest 10 million euros, 10 million euros that will help improve the economic situation of 19 000 dependent people. [[Applause]] In addition, we will continue to meet the opening of new public centers of larger ones, as we have done all the legislation, and there are the evidences: the centre of the day of Curtis, already in operation; the day center of the Poor of the Caraminhal, already in operation; the day center of Maceda, already in operation; the day center of Cambados, already in operation; the day center and residence of Artexo, already in operation; the day center and residence of Vilardevós, already in operation; the day center and residence of Roundola — in Cesantes — already in operation; and the day center and residence of Paradela, already in operation. All these centers are the best way we can take advantage of our word, and our word is that in what remains of legislation we will also open the homes of major and day centers in Baleira and Foz, the day centers in Cuntis and Mine and the day center of the Intergenerational Center in Ourense — which will open its doors this very Friday — which will assume that, over the next few months, the public offer of care to the elders will be strengthened with 200 more public squares. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, our horizon on this legislation is about increasing the counties and the number of squares, but not only is it limited to that. We are aware that there are many elderly or disabled people who still wait too long for their valuation. Well, in the same way that we strengthened the disability assessment teams in 2018, an initiative that allowed us to reduce thirty percent of the waiting list and solve more than thirty thousand files, you can move on that in the coming months we will take the necessary steps to simplify and speed up the process that people in dependency have to follow. These are, therefore, the general lines of action of the Social Policy Council, a roadmap designed so that all the Greeks and so that all the Greeks, regardless of the family we are born at, of the abilities we have, of our age or place of residence and of our economic situation, can have the same opportunities to freely trace our own project of life. It's not an easy target, it can't be achieved in a matter of months or it can be achieved by the German Government left alone. So I come before you today to ask for heights of vision, vision of the future and commitment to our people. I have the greatest confidence in the responsibility and solidarity of the Greeks and the Greeks and in the potential of this land towards the next decade, and I am fully aware of the perspective that the social area of the Greek Government requires: humility, realism and sensitivity, because there are as many and as many concrete cases as Greeks and Greeks. That's why I guarantee you the work and dedication of the Social Policy Council and, therefore, I ask you today to draw close to them, because all people, all prospects and all parties are necessary to make Galicia even more family. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u42	Thank you very much, Counselor. You have the floor on behalf of the BNG Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u43	Good morning. Good morning, Counselor. The truth is, I think you did well to make reference to your predecessor and your predecessor, because you arrive here new, but the advice of what you are now the highest representative is not new, and in the work started in this new career of the People's Party since 2009 are many of the issues often repeated and still not concluded. And you here today did, in an important part of your intervention, a review intervention, didn't you? I repeat questions often repeated here. Starting at the end, you made reference to a series of infrastructures that you said "it's already in operation" and that you would have to say, at last, you would have to say, "it's finally in operation!" because these are infrastructures that were often put in budgets and that had to be in operation for several years. And I can talk about my village, about Cambados, which has been running late for several years. Then it's not "yes," but at last. I say it so we'll be a little fair, starting at the end. And the reality that he has to act in, the reality that he has to affect from his department is that of a Galician that you said the incidence of poverty is receding. Of course, little; of course a little, Counselor. I regret that you seem to fall there a little in the self-comprehensiveness of data that say that this fallback in macroeconomics is not reflected in the reality of homes, that, of course, there is very little reflected in that theory of structural economic improvement; it is not reflected in homes. And that AROPE report to which you referred says that there are still over 60,000 people in Galicia at risk of poverty, and, above all, since we are at the door of March 8, I'm going to make a lot of reference today to the situation of women: what it says is that this risk of poverty is very feminized and, for example, in 2007 they came out of the poverty situation thirty thousand men and entered twenty thousand nine hundred women. It's a fact that, of course, BNG is very concerned about us. Just as we are very concerned about reality, for example, the Oxfam report says that in the Spanish state poverty has increased during the crisis four times more than has been reduced by recovery. That is, the crisis has served to settle poverty in a very persistent way, in a very common way. And then you started because there were never so many facilities in Galicia that people decided to be mothers and parents and spoke of a series of issues such as caregiving, nesting houses and welcome card. But, of course, the best tool for people to decide to be mothers and parents is to have a wage, to have means to develop their life, a life plan. And it turns out that in Galicia precariousness is still the definition of women's employment typology essentially. Women continue to suffer from the wage divide, 21.5 percent of the salary divide in Galicia; thirty-seven percent of women employed in Galicia have a wage lower than the minimum interprofessional wage, and 20.5 percent do not reach half of the minimum interprofessional wage. I'm saying that because it's very good to give up close ones like that, but the important thing is to have a salary so we can have life plans. They're fired because of their motherhood; they're still performing doubles and triples on a day and with few labor rights; they're forced to reconcile with reduced days and income, which means after that it has an impact on retirements. Poverty has a woman's face. Low wages and precariousness because they have a woman's face. That's the reality in which you, as part of a government, would have to affect, and don't think that with baby checks, with Council checks you solve the problem of conciliation in our country, Counsellor. And the first question I want to tell you is what they're doing from their government to solve that background situation that's not solved with those checks that you're sharing. And then I also want to make an impact on a question: it's the application of the dependency law in Galicia, clearly unsatisfactory, both from the point of view of users and those who expect an evaluation. You said you had made much progress in this matter; of course not enough. In the specific case of the province of Pontevedra, there are still several thousand people who are waiting for evaluation both in dependence and in disability. And that means they wait for the evaluation and then wait for the resources that come from that evaluation. After that, Galicia is the second largest community in population over 80 years; in the state it is 3.77 percent people who host to some type of benefit, in Galicia 2.97 percent. That means there's a decompensation, with the largest population greater than 80 years, it turns out that we have the ones who are less demanding a benefit. Something's going wrong there. And I also want to ask you what you're doing from the council for all that population that you're likely to receive some kind of benefit, why you think you're not asking for it and what you're missing there. We are also concerned that in Galicia investment per dependent person is decreasing; it is the lowest in the state, and in addition every year it is going to be less: 108 euros compared to 129.7 euros in the state. I would also like you to give us an answer to that situation. We would also like you to tell us what they are going to do from the Government to claim those 186.2 million euros that the State owes us not to have made the compromises in that Dependency Act, which was not being applied to the extent it was intended to do. That means less people cared for, less resourceful and under worse conditions. And at the same time, it means a loss of job creation possibilities in that sector, with which the path sheet of the dependent People's Party was to rake, cut, and they didn't even dare claim the funding that was ours or that important debt. I want to make a reference to senior residences. There is a clearly insufficient offer in higher residential squares, dependent people with a percentage of the highest squares in the state; the price in Galicia is the highest; the average waiting time for access to a residence in Galicia is very high, far above what establishes legislation. You promised a residence in each of the big cities, you promised that by the end of this first quarter of 2019 they would be bidden. I want to ask you how that tender is going, Counsellor; if you can tell us, because it's only a month to finish this quarter, like these tenders are. I'd like you to give us an explanation. I'd like you to tell us that there are the needs and demands of the staff, of the usual problems and difficulties they suffer; if you're going to do something to increase the more adjusted staff frames of their counseling, for half of the staff is possible, precarious, with a brutal workload, with very high percentages of women of very high age; they don't cover the casualties, permits, vacations; they're not fulfilling the commitments made in the agreements; when they're going to restore article 19 of the Convention; if you're going to follow this policy where everything goes at the expense of those who are missing, of those who don't substitute, because, of course, that's still the reality. I want to talk to you about conciliation, Counselor. We're at 8 March, and at BNG we're fed up that they turn this date into a retaliatory retreat of ritual acts after which there is no concrete action. And I want to talk to you because the paradigm of non-compliance with the legal right to conciliation is given in the Galician Consortium of Equality and Welfare, with a staff of approximately 2,000 people, the ninety-seven percent are women, and instead of being an example in the matter of equality is quite the opposite. Workers have to resort to judges to claim the right to time-concretion, to flexibility, to reduction in the day-to-day, because they are systematically denied...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u44	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u45	...these rights, because when they ask for them, as long as they don't revert to the need for them to hire the most personnel, to put people to do that job, they have to go to the court to whom they are entitled to a right that the law...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u46	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u47	...—Finished, president—the law recognizes, but that you in your department allow women not to be facilitated. And you don't do anything to guarantee the rights to reconciliation that women have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u48	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u49	...especially in your department, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u50	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u51	Then the next turn I'll keep asking you some questions, but I'd like, if possible, to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u52	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u53	...that you answer the ones I made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u54	Thank you very much. We greet the students of the IES Valle Inclán de Pontevedra, the fourth-class students of the ESO and the first of the Bachelor's degree. Thank you very much for being here. And you have the floor by the Socialist Parliamentary Group to Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u55	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. And welcome the boys and girls who accompany us. Good morning, Counselor. I have to start with something that alarmed us: "Joint incentives to bring immigrant women of fertile age and reverse the crack of birth. / It will be one of the axes in the law of demographic impulse", El Correo Gallego, Monday, February 18, 2019. A young woman, Counselor, who laughs at you. It seems to us that this is similar to those trailer announcements of women of the past century, and it seems really embarrassing to us. It seems embarrassing to us that the Government of Greece, in particular its council, announces that it will pay a rent for the womb of migrant women, which it cosifies, that it mercanizes the bodies of migrants, but, above all, that it insults all of the Galicians, all the women of this autonomous community. [[Applause]] The first thing I want to ask you about today is that, please correct this and apologize. Of course, these days, the last few weeks in which we're also talking about the law of demographic impulse, we're also concerned about another issue. The leader of his party is constantly relating abortion to demography with false arguments. So, I too, on behalf of the Socialist Group, would like to ask you today if you're going to ask for a derogation from the current Abortion Law to promote birth. I ask you this question, and I see your surprise face, but when the leader of the party that is supporting the German Government says this at the state level, and he intends not to make us back to women in 1985 but to the Middle Ages, I understand that you will understand the concern of this parliamentary group. [[Applause]] The truth is, since you came to this council, there have been more resources. There are more resources for an area that is fundamental to the well-being of all Greeks and Greeks. And there are not because there is a Government of Mr Feijóo who has rectified his policies, but because there is a Government of Spain, which you have not mentioned once in all of the intervention, which puts forward people who care about the most vulnerable groups and who have done more in ten months than you have in ten years. Sure, and that's exactly why it took you eight months to come to this camera since you registered your request for appearance, because while this time, and even now, there's a Government of Spain, -- I repeat -- which you haven't mentioned at once, which takes the chestnuts out of the fire to Junta de Galicia. Fight poverty. Well, look: in less than ten months, this High Commissioner of Combating Child Poverty, to act cross-sectionally on one of the most unjust issues and one of the worst consequences of job insecurity and inequality in our country. As he arrived at the government, he was concerned about the food security of all those children who with the school dining room closed in the middle of the summer, didn't have to lay their mouths, Counsellor. We're talking about a budget match that has affected 300 children in this autonomous community. One thing we're going to do is multiply by two the dependent child benefit, which has taken since the year 2002 frozen. That vital minimum income, which falls by its vote against the People's Party, which could reach more than seventy-four thousand Greeks and Greeks. And all this in less than ten months. And you, after ten years, come here to assume the launch of the Rising Development Decree. A decree that comes up with four years' delay, with an allowance that will remain excessively bureaucratic and that is not as you say it will allow compatibility with most precarious jobs, because there will be, and we'll see, many of them will stay out. A paralysis in decision-making. And an autonomous community where 46.12 percent, according to the IGE, has difficulty or a lot of difficulty reaching the end of the month, with an AROPE rate, which indeed, Counsellor, is low, but is low because there is a resurgence of poverty throughout Spain and throughout the European Union. And in an autonomous community where there is a population so old that the total weight of that population is much lower. [[Applause]] And you were talking about youth. He said exactly: we deserve to respect and value his talent and his potential. This was followed by a moderate optimism with regard to the employment situation of young people and girls. And it seems to us, Counselor, a deep disrespect. There are forty-four percent of boys and girls in this self-employed community who are at risk of social exclusion. But the worst part is that of those who have found a job, there are about 20 percent who are in poverty. Conciliation resources. Well, it's not necessary to be a mother and father to know reality either. Something I've said on many occasions: this is not only trying to decide about the body and life of women, but also labeling, and that it seems that being a mother or father has more or less right or you are more or less familiar with that reality, when reality is so overwhelming that it's not necessary or even that. You haven't talked today about infantry schools in industrial polygons. I'm surprised, of course. But if we see the first budgets of the 2017 legislation, it turns out that we now have half, with children's schools of seventy percent without running in previous years. We've had a lot of discussion about the number of children's school squares, and I'm going to ask you the same question I asked you about the presentation of budgets: with a negative vegetative balance, with 13,522 dead more than born in 2017, how is it possible, Counselor, that there is a waiting list in the children's schools in this autonomous community? Unit. Well, if you've increased the number of dependents taken care of. We've said it on many occasions: it's a progressive implementation law that ended that period in 2015. The problem is, they've increased the lower rate than the people who need it and the lower rate than the resources we need. How is it possible, therefore, that we are more dependent if it turns out that resources have not increased to the same level? For the low-cost benefits you're boosting. It is true that Galicia serves more dependents, but also that the benefit expense is much lower. Yes, Counsellor, five years ago public spending on this autonomous community was 6,701 euros, today is less than nine hundred euros. We are the twelfth autonomous community in public spending for dependents, and the least contributing to state funding as well. By centering on, and you were saying and bragging about your home, it's fifty percent, against a thousand five hundred teleassistations, out of 8,838 attentions, eight thousand eight hundred, there's three hundred in day centers, so you can't come here to assume day centers. In the meantime, there was — although you did not say so — a Government of Spain who was concerned about something that was fundamental to us, which was to recover the contributions to the Social Security of Caregivers; a measure that will affect 9,000 women fundamentally in this autonomous community. He hasn't spoken anything, he must be the first time he comes a counselor or a counselor since there's a socialist government that doesn't talk at all about the budgets of the Government of Spain. How will those budgets be, don't you, Counselor? How will it be with fifty-nine percent more dependence on all of us? Fifty-nine percent more. [[Applause]] The game that increased most in those budgets, for which you voted against. [[Applause]] Budgets that were intended to recover those rights seized by Mr. Rajoy's Government during the crisis period. And also contribute to the decrease in waiting lists and improves the attention of the people and the dependents of our autonomous community. With regard to senior residences, the report of the Board of Auditors — it is not something of the Socialist Group —: since the arrival of Mr. Feijóo's Government more than ten years ago, zero residences have been launched with zero direct management squares in the Galician Union; staff casualties and vacations have not been covered in public residential centres, and they have been equivalent in one year to the work of fifty people in ten residences — you were the Director General of Majors, with whom you were fully aware of this situation — and private residences have not been punished. And you're now talking about an unprecedented climb, which we're very afraid will again be a help to pay private residences and to pay them always to themselves, instead of making those seven residences that have been engaged and that today you haven't mentioned, which I suppose leaves for your second intervention. Disability. They follow the waiting lists on the rating teams, despite that initiative presented by the PSdG and approved unanimously on this camera. Cegadi's still closed. The parents and mothers of the Ourense Center of Care with Functional Diversity are back in the streets because they've been late for three years with respect to their commitment, and there's no counselor, no one stone for these families. Volunteer. They actually have a head and a heart; what they don't have is budget, Counselor, because since 2009 more than 40 percent has come down. [[Applause]] Yours, Counsellor, is, according to the report of the Office of Public Users and Services in Galicia, counseling that most complaints accumulate: twenty-nine percent of the total, because it remains in minimum services for older people, for youth, in the fight against poverty, for dependency attention... It's not your policies that are supporting this basic pier of the welfare state, not the sound, Counsellor, but the very inertia of it and the effort of the workers of the centers that depend on its negotiation. Now we have to add an investment by the Government of Historical Spain, especially in matters of dependence, which makes us socialists today not only feel proud but also in a lot of hope. And nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u57	Well, Counselor, you said that Galicia is moving forward, but it's going to be annoyance, because the situation of social policies in our country is that. And it doesn't produce us, of course, any kind of shocking comment, is that the situation is that. The crisis throughout southern Europe has shown and proved that social protection systems were not enough. And we do not say that in Marea, there are numerous reports, including the European Commission itself, such a very unsuspecting body, which criminalizes the Spanish State that its minimum incomes are not sufficient. And you came here to boast about the risk, when it's a social inclusion income that does not favor social inclusion, first, because it penalized the achievement of a job and, second, because it's an income that only reaches seven percent of the coverage of people at risk of poverty. That's not an income of social inclusion, in addition to what has already been said here, that comes with five years of delay in that decree, which, by the way, I do not know whether it is now published in the DOG that decree which was adopted by the Board of Trustees. In view of that reality, we can only describe a terrible situation: demographic implosion, chronification of poverty and social exclusion, collapse of the dependency system in many cases — understanding that many Members and Members are not interested in the subject but might make less noise — and the great needs of the system of protection of minors — recognized by the budget memory itself of the Union — are insufficient conciliation measures and the misery of the minimum income of social inclusion. [[Murmurs.]] That's the hard picture of this country. And we can also talk about personal names. We also have names of those to speak: Ana, who does not reach a place in a residence for her mother, who urgently needs her, and who then cannot develop her personal life; Rosa, who has suffered a bureaucratic labyrinth so that she can get a libretto for a dependent familiar person; Maria Jesus Suárez, from Ourense—went out the other day in the newspaper—, has the son in the CAP of Sarria, because there is still no public CAP in Ourense, and on Sundays he will see it, and the day he couldn't go his son did not eat. That's reality, those are personal names, too. And whenever a counselor or advisor comes here to announce that he does so to account for the general lines of action of his department, we translate to the Greek and say, auto-bomb presence to Parliament to make some announcement. What was the announcement in this case? Well, we've noted some lines of the future law of demographic impulse, which should be presented before the end of the previous year -- that was the commitment of its predecessor -- a plan of attention to homeless people comes to time and without a background study; or that RedMay, that program that has been announcing, with European funds, that it's a kind of low cost mobile social services. Those are the ads we've posted here. We understand that when you come to appear on the general lines of your department you should make a balance of the previous years. In fact, you yourself spoke of inheritance; for us that inheritance, of course, is poisoned. His predecessors, Mato and King Varela, used their respective advisories to campaign; even today his exhibition also had a dye of that. And Beatriz Mato himself was responsible for eliminating a program, which was Pre-School at home, which also provided a allowance for young children at home, a teaching benefit. It's just that you said there was no program before the little houses, and if there was a pre-school in the house, and also internationally awarded. But, well, we don't want you to think that we only give the headlines and then call us catastropheists, because we want to give us data, because the data show a social reality stagnant, a country that needs a great injection of funds to make strong public policies and create decent jobs, and that allow them to live and work decently on our land. But, however, if we continue on this drift we will go towards a chronic reality of aging without dignity or future. You were talking about that there have never been so many eases before to decide whether to be parents or mothers, because you don't notice. The main objective of the Plan for the Demographic Dynamics of Galicia 2013-2016 — literally — is: "The main and unique goal was to reach the European average of 1.59 children or children per woman in 2016," and we're at 1.12. We well know that the demographic issue is a complex, multifactorial problem, and that global population aging is not negative, it is indicative of social change, social transformation. But what happens to us in our country is that for most baby checks they won't recover the demography if you don't create decent jobs; because we're in the second community in the Spanish state with the highest percentage of aging population; because we're at birth levels very below European average and with percentages of people between 15 and 30 years of 12.7 percent, compared to the average state, 15.1 percent, or 17.2 percent of Europe. And you went over talking about youth unemployment, minimizing the tragedy of youth unemployment and a very low rate of activity, as well as the delay in emancipation among young people, in which you also have much to do with the difficulties of access to housing. And he didn't relate this lack of young people — also related to emigration — to this lack of employment with this fall in birth. Because we fear that this draft law of demographic impulse — which should be, I repeat, in 2018 — will go through lines of Christmas policies that we have of course rejected. What we need in our country — as you said, and in words we can agree — is that women can decide when and how to have children, when and how to count on offspring. That's why we have to create the conditions for families to have a proper environment for their life. For that, we must overcome the social crisis, but not, of course, Christmas politics. And he could take advantage to tell his party partner, Mr. Married, that, of course, women of course, we know what we've got inside. And we also know that he's lying, that he's lying when he intentionally confuses public opinion by talking about twenty weeks, when you know that the law of voluntary termination of pregnancy is up to fourteen weeks, and that up to twenty-two for medical matters. They know they're confused with a fundamental right of women, which is to decide on our bodies, and we ask them to reject those claims. He said that in order to promote the conditions for women in this country to have the children we want, that we want, because we must overcome the social crisis, which has been said here. The report from the European Network against Poverty still places us at more than 600,000 at risk of social exclusion, and tells us about the severe feminization of poverty. Because yes, we left the crisis theoretically at the macroeconomic level, but the pay gap, the pay gap that women pay for men, continues to increase. And yet they boast about the Risk, when it covers a little more than 10,000 people, because twelve thousand peaks — if we consider both the Risk and the social inclusion aids — about a total of -- let's go down a little bit to the figure -- do not take those six hundred thousand people anymore, but just over four hundred thousand, taking into account the indicators of the IGE. When it doesn't reach seven percent of the people it should cover, it earns that inclusion income, when it takes five years to make a decree that finally regulates the integration and transition arrangements to employment, which should be regulated in 2014. And five years in which Risga's misery penalized employment; five years later in which Junta arrived to persecute people living in the same residence by charging for Risga, and one court ruling said that Junta acted by accentuating the exaggerated inclusion of those people; five years later the Director General of Labour Promotion still recognized in a commission that had not yet drafted the protocol to enable precisely that relationship between social policy and employment to favor the employment of these people; five years in which Community social services asked for forgiveness, and ask for forgiveness, to the people who treat them at Risk, because they almost forced them to swoop there in the Social Services of so much demand; five years in which poverty has been chronicled, and labour poverty, because 14 percent of those who have employment are also not out of the situation of poverty. There's almost no time left to talk about the precarious situation of older people, because we're one of the worst-retirement autonomous communities and people with poverty. "About 11% of the Welsh and Welsh over 65 years of age find themselves in a situation of risk of poverty, worse in the case of women" — we literally quote the Board's budget record. They don't have enough public network, because we're the autonomous community with fewer public squares in residences. And you -- and even today -- continue to bet on privatization and lack of inspection in these centres, which has the Inspection Service the same level of staff as 20 years ago. And then, however, because they have a different criterion according to the residence, because, for example, in the residence of Vilanova de Arousa's Valley-Inclán — which has not yet given an answer to the municipal corporation to see if there can be a solution to avoid their closure — inspections are constant, and in other centers the inspections shine because of their absence — let's say. As for issues like childhood, he said that they would be those of the year that comes with child budgets. You voted against measures on child poverty because they minimize the problem. And in the budget record itself, it is found that there is a precariousness of child protection systems. I don't have time now, but we'll expand it later because, of course, in a country that has a terrible demographic crisis, that children's schools are the most demanding social service and that year after year there are more than two thousand eight hundred people on a waiting list, that means that they have no project for this country in the future.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u58	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Counsellor, good morning to all, Members and Members. In particular, the Socialist Mrs complains bitterly that in this meeting, Counsellor, you do not speak either of the Government of Pedro Sánchez or of the great work that the Socialist Party has done with social policies in Galicia. So, I'd like to tell you that, if you want to talk about the Sánchez Government and, specifically, that first decision you made as President of the Government, not, but we can talk about that second decision so important that you made in that decision to be President of the Government. It changed to the sports press by the international press, especially because, in these days of fake news, "in which the schism is confused with news and chatting with the relevant, it is very important to have these newspapers of world reference". Well, today what you did was you introduced the fake news into this Galician Parliament, because the cover of that newspaper you just showed contains a false news, a false news which the newspaper itself rectified the following day. And I hope you correct it too, because to bring this Parliament news to the knowledge that it's false is to lie and deceive. [[Murmurs.]] That is why we hope that you will correct in your second round of intervention; correct in your second round of intervention. [[Applause]] We are also surprised that the Nationalist Mrs talks about the Consortium, because she looks, when her Government, being your provincial delegate, has approved a consortium agreement setting lower wages than the Galician staff, you didn't say anything. That problem, that situation was solved by the Government of the People's Party. But, well, if you want to talk about that consortium agreement, keep talking. Anyway, the one who solved that problem was this People's Party government. Counselor, you were hoping to get out of this appearance with the clearest ideas, even you've held your hand to the opposition to ask them for heights of vision, vision of the country's future and commitment, but we've come to this appearance since the beginning with clear ideas. Because the opposition's response is the same as ever, because they've been talking about dismantling and destroying the welfare state in Galicia for ten years. They've been teaching Galician board ten years of how to manage social policies and what they've been proclaiming these magic recipes for ten years to solve all Galician problems. But what happens at the time of reality? At the time of reality, when they have the opportunity and responsibility to govern, they don't apply any of their recipes that they proclaim here every day. Why do you look, as the Galician Union increases its risk budget to 64.4 million euros and approves a decree that allows not only to increase the economic proximity that you perceive about 10,000 people in Galicia, but that you can also compare with the labour incomes, while the Union does that, what do you do? So look, Compostela Aberta leaves without spending 82% of the budget of her famous citizen guarantee municipal income; you shorten what was your star project of this mandate. The Atlantic tide spent twice as much advertising and propaganda on its social income. These are the recipes that you give to the Galician Union but that, when they rule, they don't apply. While Junta increases the budget of dependency until it reaches 383 million euros and strengthens the home aid service in a million and a half hours — by the way, the best service rated by people in a dependency situation — what do you do? The Open Composte leaves 80% of the home help budget unspent when they have more than one hundred and twenty people on the waiting list. Of the million you were budgeted for, you only executed 300,000 euros. While Junta increases resources to fight poverty and social exclusion up to EUR 119 million and allocates EUR 7.2 million to social entities working with social eaters, shelters and shelters, what do you do? What do you do where you rule? Social institutions in the Coruña have suffered the biggest cut in municipal aid in their history; more than 35% of the aid has been cut off by you to social entities. The social entities of Compostela, such as the Food Bank, the Home Project or the Xoan XXIII Hostel, suffered a cut of 50,000 euros. While Galician Union spends nearly 15 million euros on Vigo County for Risga and social inclusion aid, Vigo is the city of Galicia that later process Risga's applications. While the Galician Union reinforces with eleven professionals the social services of the city of Vigo to try to solve this problem, what does the socialist mayor of Vigo do? It takes six months to process Risga's requests, despite the fact that in Vigo there are more than sixty-three thousand people at risk of poverty or social exclusion. And we keep going. While the Galician Union allocates 731 million euros to social policies, the cities governed by the Galician Nationalist Block lead the state-wide ranking of poor municipalities in social services, a ranking where the municipalities of more than twenty thousand inhabitants, where the average population expenditure is 60.15 euros. How much do nationalist councils spend? The Pontevedra Town Hall allocates €35.75 per inhabitant; the Cangas Town Hall, 32.35; and the Cambados Town Hall, 30.54; poor municipalities in social investment; awards that you have in your offices to remember that when budgets are made you have to think about people and you have to think about everything about the people who need it most. While Junta executed 99% of its budget in 2017, the Tides of Podemos lead the ranking of unmet municipalities with citizens. Because look, it's hardly worth painting figures in a budget if you don't execute them later, if you don't spend the risk and social aid budget. Santiago is the city of Galicia with the lowest budget execution, 77% unexecuted. The Crown gets the second ranking position in the 2016 accounts, with 71% not running. Ferrol doesn't stay too far and gets the third position, with 69% not running. Of course, we thought that painting budgets that were not going to be executed was a fraud to the citizen. Faced with this, what does Galician Union do? It allocates more than 731 million euros to social policies. In five years, in five years, the Government of Galicia has increased by 300 million the budget for social policies, 300 million euros in five years. [[Applause]] And, of course, it's the year that most resources are intended to care for dependent people, older people, people with disabilities, the fight against poverty and social exclusion, family, childhood and reconciliation, youth and volunteering, and they bear any comparison. But, of course, you come here to tell the Galician board what you have to do when where they rule they do absolutely nothing to help people, but well... I'd like to finish by thanking all opposition groups because thanks to them we've learned a lot over the last ten years. We learn everything that should not be done every day to work for people and social services. Thank you for nothing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Replica, Social Policy Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, our children and our children are a priority for this government and that is why we have 24,379 public funds-backed squares in Galicia; we exceed in nine points the ratio that the European Union proposes: 42% compared to 33%. Mrs. Blanco, we have zero waiting list for children and children from 0-3 years old who have asked for a public square; or they have obtained it or received a help from the Bono Council to attend a school of their choice. We have tax deductions for birth or higher adoption from Spain in Galicia for families with incomes less than or equal to 22,000 euros. Exemption from paying fees for children's schools for the second child who attends the same school. We extend the Welcome Card to 3 years for families with less resources. Nearly 40,000 children and girls have already benefited from this Welcome Card on legislation, 36.5 million euros invested in 2019, reaching 72.5 million euros with this call. And we're still, of course, betting on the children and girls living in rural areas, with 61 nesting houses, to reach 76 when the legislation is over. Mrs. Blanco, you were also very interested in the order of polygons. The order to support children's schools in industrial polygons and business parks financed with 600,000 euros the opening of three centres: one in Narón, another in Mos — which I visited yesterday — and another in the Poor Caraminal, which will open its doors in the coming months. It is true that there is a room that has received help this year, in the Porriño, but in which his promoters are very scared. And there was also another proposal to open another in Vigo, which never came to materialize. And you all know why? Because the associations that drive children's schools are finding it very difficult for the municipalities to change the use of land. Therefore, Mrs. Blanco, as in the Porriño and in Vigo who governs is your party, I really ask you to tell your mayors to commit themselves to these business parks containing children's schools. [[Applause]] Anyway, we will continue to introduce improvements in this order, and, as you know, this year will also open up to fund childish schools in other work circles, as our dear confrereres of fishermen. Speaking of poverty and inequality, it is of course a priority for the German Government to continue working for the people who need it most. The rates of inequality are relative rates, they compare with the average or with people with higher incomes, so I always think that we have to take them with a lot of caution. Our biggest concern is to improve the situation of people with less income, and in that sense, significant progress has been made. The number of homes arriving at the end of the month with difficulties or much difficulty is at least this decade. Risga's applications have been reduced by 10%. The number of persons with severe material shortages has been reduced by more than 40% in the last year and is less than half the national average; from 4.5% in 2016 to 2.6%; in the state as a whole, the severe material deficiency is 5%. And the AROPE poverty risk rate, 22.6%, is four points below the national average and is the lowest in the last five years. Finally, in Galicia the risk of poverty is reduced, family income is increased and an exclusion rate is maintained below the Spanish average, but I am aware that it is never enough. And with reference to our elders, they deserve everything. That's why we get a record number in attention to people who have a recognized dependency. People attended: 60,501, here in Galicia, four times more than in 2009. The coverage ratio is above the national average: in Galicia, 88.85%; in Spain, 80.8%. We are the fifth autonomous community, above Aragon, Valencia, Extremadura, ruled by the Socialist Party. And there's a clear priority for our government because our seniors receive professional services in the face of economic benefits, professional services provided by qualified people for our seniors, who deserve everything. Professional services in Galicia account for 81.6% of the total. So, Mrs. Blanco, low cost benefits here in Galicia, nothing at all. Therefore, this objective of legislation, a target of 60,000 dependents attended in four years, was met by the German Government in only two years. Mrs. Prado, you also asked me about Plan As at home, to build seven large residences in the seven big cities of Galicia. This plan is progressing according to schedule, and right now they're working on drafting the projects through the contest of ideas and they'll be delivered in the next month of May. The only thing that can stand in the way of this plan is that there's a council, the Ferrol Town Hall, which seven months later has not yet given an answer to the agreement for the assignment of the necessary land. And in the case of Ourense in the coming weeks we plan to sign the land assignment agreement. When you talk about the great professionals we have the fortune to tell in the Social Policy Council, the areas corresponding to the Social Policy Council have more workers today than in 2009. Look at the figures, Mrs. White: 2009, 3,919 troops; 2018, 4,189 troops, 7% more. And in addition, these years have also improved the working conditions of professionals. In 2016 the number of consecutive working days and nights was reduced. Guarantee the rest on half of Saturdays and Sundays and recover half of the twenty-four days of rest lost during the recession. In 2017 wages rose by 1% and in 2018 by 1.5% more. It's totally false to say that most of the workers in the Consortium can't reconcile. Of the 224 requests for day-to-day flexibility or reduction on the basis of conciliation, a total of 210 have already been settled favourably, which means more than 93%. And those people who cannot reconcile, those few cases that cannot reconcile, are dismissed because they would affect the provision of public service. You're telling me about the CAPD of Ourense. We have a commitment to all those parents and mothers of disabled people who are both claiming a necessary CAPD in Ourense. The forecast is that the work of Ourense's Disabled Persons Care Centre is due in the first half of 2019. At this very moment, the project is being drafted by the study of adjudicatory architecture and has termed until May for its delivery. But in the meantime, he kept working to prepare the plot and that the works begin as soon as possible. As a matter of fact, last week the plot was already unearthed to begin with the cataclysms and with the different measurements. You are also very concerned about the parents and mothers with children with Barcia's disabilities. I assure you they will have all my support. With regard to Cegadi, Junta will honour its commitment to launch this year the Cegadi rehabilitation area through an agreement with Cogami. But, Mrs. Blanco, now the other side is missing, now there is a need for the Central Government to also comply with its share, as it assumed in April last year, and to set up the residential service and also create in Cegadi a state-of-the-art self-government reference centre and technical aids - Ceapa, because until today at the Galician Summit of the Government's commitment we know nothing at all. You also talk to me about state budgets. When the Central Government presented the state's general budgets, we called prudence and underlined the electoral aspect it had, and time gave us reason. The Socialist Party predicted that investment in dependency would rise by 60%, but today the only real thing is that the Union is paying three quarters of the dependency investment, and the only real budgets are the budgets of the Galician Union, fully in force since 1 January 2019. If the Central Government comes as many funds as we do, according to the spirit of the Dependency Law, the dependency care services could reach 100 percent of the people who need it. [[Applause]] Mrs. Prado, you ask me when the central government is going to pay the money it owes Galicia in terms of dependency. I think it's a good question and I hope Mrs. Blanco, on behalf of the PSOE, knows how to answer it. [[Applause]] With reference to the Valle-Inclán Residence, see, the closure of the Valle-Inclán Residence in Vilanova, where serious irregularities were detected, is in the hands of Justice. The Prosecutor's Office of Pontevedra has just started criminal investigation into this matter. There's also an auto from the High Court of Justice that is blocking the closure of the center. At all times the German Government has acted in order to avoid as much as possible complications for older people and complications for families. Now they're exploring ways this center regulates their situation and suits the legal requirements. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in order to refocus the debate after this interesting turn of replicas and before each group takes the last word, I would like to re-list the goals that mark the Social Policy Council: a Galicia that is kinder to families and in which it is easier to reconcile, a Galicia that generates more opportunities for new people, a Galicia that supports and pushes the members of society who feel they're staying behind, a Galicia that knows how to take advantage of its enormous potential of people with some kind of dependence, whether for age or for disability. I am convinced that the practice of all the Galicians and the Greeks would subscribe to each and every one of these objectives, because our people have very much assimilated everything that means a family and because we all want to identify to a greater extent in our society those values of affection, support and mutual protection. That's precisely why, because in social matters there are many more coincidences than differences and because I think the things that could be done better are much less than the things that were done reasonably well. I ask you to put aside the partisan interests and focus on building a Galician that is even more social, even more family. Such a goal cannot be achieved by the German Government alone. We need the full involvement of our society as a whole, and to achieve it we need the commitment of the workers of social services, who have always been, always, at the height, so long before, when their dedication could not be recognized as they deserved, as now, when the improvement of the economic situation is becoming a progressive improvement in working conditions. To achieve this, we need the commitment of social entities, and the Government of Greece has always been and has always found in these social entities responsibility, sympathy and much loyalty. In order to achieve this, we also need the commitment of companies that employ six out of ten of the Greeks. They have a lot to say about improving the reconciliation of families and the employability of people with disabilities and at risk of exclusion. To achieve a Galicia that is more family, we also need to count on the support and commitment of the political groups. Because to make opposition doesn't mean that everything is wrong and that it's never been worse, but to do opposition is to listen, it's to analyze, it's to propose measures that bring about a more just, more supportive and better protected community. Measures such as the initiative we have currently under study, which is to have the vaccination schedule a day, become a requirement to register a child in a child's school. A novelty that aims to protect children, protect our children and our children. [[Applause]] Because properly vaccinating our daughter or son not only protects him but also protects all his companions. But also that the initiative is being endorsed to continue to raise awareness of the importance of vaccination for public health, programs that in Galicia are almost unanimous in support. The Greek Government is also responsible for local administrations, councils and deputies, and central administration, because if we act in coordination and from the common sense, we will make public resources better reach those who need it most. On this side you can find a high-level Galician board, and that's why this year 2018 the budget of the Social Policy Council has grown by 5% and my department's public workers are working every day for this budget improvement to translate into an improvement in the well-being of all the Greeks and all the Greeks. We count on you, count on your commitment and count on your responsibility. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u62	Thank you, Counselor. Special round of clarifications. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u63	Well, first I want to dedicate a few seconds to the People's Party Member, where they follow with the same speech that, of course, ten years later in the Government, they say that the Union allocates 700 million euros to social policies. And the question I ask myself is, won't it be because it is the competence of the Board that is the competence? Who has the responsibility, who has the competences in social policy, is the Council of Galicia, and what is normal is that whoever uses the resources; because, in addition, it is who collects the taxes to allocate those resources. I'm saying it's because it's already a little tired to hear that it's the Junta who puts the money. Because they have competence, Madam. I'm saying it 'cause it looks like they're doing it the way they get out of their pocket because nobody does. It's because he has the competence of the Galician Union, who has the responsibility to do so. Just as more dependents are dealt with and with that budget is because the 2008 Dependency Act was a progressive law of application and if it began to apply in 2008 it is normal that in 2019 more dependents are served and more budgets are allocated. Honey, see if we've all just learned this story! Because it's really boring to hear these questions. [[Applause]] And the municipalities, in many cases by responsibility, act from genuine Junta financiers, moving forward money and services that would have to be the Junta who put them ahead of time and not the other way around. So it's good to hear these questions here, with the world a little backwards. It's just that you, with this little thing here, seem like they come from beatifics -- I don't know -- moving forward questions and making life easier for the municipalities, when it's the other way around, when you're the ones that say how, when, how. Town Councils can't say or plan anything. It's you who do everything and it turns out that they seem to make life easier for the municipalities, when it's the other way around. We were now hired by the advisor to propose measures and to listen to them. The BNG listens, meets with collectives, listens and is on the street, and so, indeed, we are going to propose a number of questions, because, as I see, that of the seven oldest residences goes with delay; then, we're going to leave it there, because the promises remain very well. He said by May, of course, full electoral campaign; then, in the full electoral campaign, we'll resume the question; for now, they're running late. On the subject of Risga, two advisors and a counselor were required to issue a decree that does not meet the needs and that the collectives and the people they are destined to say do not solve the needs, but, nevertheless, they needed two advisors and a counselor to remove a decree that the law of 2013 said had to be in six months, that is, in June 2014, and you are now looking at whether they publish it at once. But well, we'll leave him there. And for the boys, of all that question that he said, they put all that bet on a volunteering towards Jacob 2021 and where that bet is going to be there circumscribed to Jacob 2021. Well, we'll see. So, as I have little time, I'm going to make you a whole series of proposals, Counselor, see if you take the glove and do some. The first is a campaign to boost and promote requests for dependency, among older people, because we're 80 years old, because we're the second community with more older people and in which there are fewer benefits, with which something is happening. So let's have a proactive campaign so that our elders can get the benefits they need. What is the state's demand for this historic debt, which is what it really had to do, but what is the demand for it, since it did not ask the Government of the People's Party, to do it in a proactive way, these 186 million euros. Which corrects your staff policy, increases staff frameworks, converts weekend contracts, from half a day to full-day contracts. And coverage of all the absences that occur in the centers. May Article 19 of the Convention be restored. Restoring rights — you know what I mean — regarding the women's rights of conciliation that work in your Council, and that they don't have to go to the trial claim them; they have to go to the judges; if you want, I'll bring you here the next time all the judgments they've had to claim that right. One of the most feminized and precarious sectors is care, Counselor. condition the concerts with the companies the Council holds to provide services (help at home, dinner at home and everyone) to improve the staff situation, hyperfeminized, so that women have contracts and decent working conditions. You know what conditions you're lending your job, what kind of contracts there are in these companies. With public money, we cannot be financing precariousness and exploitation. Rectify the service privatization policy and stop supporting public-funded squares to create a genuine public network of children's schools, from homes for adults. Stop creating squares with public funds, start creating a real network of children's schools as well as centres for adults. Early attention, Counselor. We brought him here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u64	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u65	...sometimes — finished, Mr President, with this question. The early departure is absolutely insufficient: 14 euros, only 20 euros in Galicia, for example 91 in Catalonia, 84 in Aragon or 74 in Navarre. We need to reach the 10 million euros in Galicia to have a real network of attention that will meet our children's needs. These are proposals and commitments if you really want to move from ritual statements to real real policies. What I ask you today is rectification, which goes from ritual statements to real bets...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u66	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u67	...to get to the bottom of the problems. I've just made a series of proposals that bring us the collectives and the people who are out there in the street with real problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u69	Thank you very much, President. The Socialist Group, who has to ask for explanations by a headline who says: "Incentives of the Union to bring immigrant women of childbearing age and reverse the crack of birth. It will be one of the axes of the Demographic Push Act.", it's you, Counselor. If you have to ask for some means of communication, that's a matter that doesn't depend on this honourable Member, but it's really curious, it turns out very curious that a newspaper decided in the morning suddenly brings out a new one, suddenly, a new one like this, who got up one day in the morning and thought about the demographic impulse, of migrant women, in fertility. [[Applause]] Or were there these plans and you had to rectify the criticisms that were there all those days? Welcome to rectification. What's missing is the apology, Counselor, the migrants, yes, the apologies to the migrants for filtering this new into a media. [[The Social Policy Counsellor speaks words which are not perceived.]] Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, what a shame! I'm very sorry that you don't have any council where they govern what they can boast of their social policies, I'm very sorry. And of course, the only council you have is the Council of Ourense, which is a real disaster, a real chaos, without budgeting since 2014, with the abolition of the care programme for single-manent families — no, no, listen, listen — a home help contract expired for three months ago — because they were not even able to draw that demand for conditions; I had to present the Socialist Group an initiative to get the home help service forward, I don't tell them any more, imagine how the situation is going — cuts in social intervention programs, etc. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But we can assume. We can assume of a municipality, of the Town Hall of Lugo, with a very high social investment, where care programs are being made to monomantal families that are being an example, not only in this autonomous community, but throughout the country. And we can also assume of the Vigo Council, yes, because, of course, when they talk about the Risga, they don't talk about that only the city of Vigo has a quarter, 25%, of all the Risga requests that are presented in this autonomous community, twice as much as those in the city of Coruña, with staff reinforcement, that the People's Party Member has forgotten — I'm sure not intentionally — that was made last year, of five people hired by the Town Council itself. Counsellor, regarding the schools of children in industrial polygons, there are 315 municipalities throughout the autonomous community; I don't have the exact figure of number of industrial polygons, but you came here to talk about the Porriño, the Vigo schools, where there were problems, and I have to tell you that I'm going to be more concerned, that we are going to be more concerned, because if you have to tell a Member of this House of the Socialist Group to speak to, no, look, talk to your mayor, that's a problem, when there's no such capacity for dialogue on the part of the German Government to pick up the phone and call a mayor simply because he's a socialist mayor. I'm telling you, Counselor, that I'm going far more worried than I got to this House today. Of course, with the mayor of Ourense who does speak, yes, they do speak, and the visits of counselors and advisers are much more frequent, particularly theirs, and will be more frequent in recent months. [[Applause]] Because look, I'll tell you anecdote. The other day, they asked me: "You know, Noela, where will the new health center they just announced be located?" I say: -I don't know the exact location. - Of course, they tell me you're next to the old residence. And I say, "No, but for the residence of older people, the land is not yet sold. - I mean, you're telling me that there's no health center or a senior residence. - Yeah, well, it's close to the new CAPD. - No, but the new CAPD doesn't exist either. So, what's it done? Well, absolutely nothing, nor the CAPD of Ourense, which is a real shame, Counselor. There was a commitment from all the list heads, from all of us presented in the autonomics election campaign in 2016 for this CAPD to be fully operational in 2018; we are in 2019, there is no single stone and you come today to say that the bid will be in the first half. There is an agreement — and I would like to remind you — of this House, an initiative put forward by the PSdeG, where it is said that the bid is before May 2019. I hope you fulfill that commitment that has already been ratified in this House by all groups. Well, there's no waiting list in public childhood schools. Maybe it'll be fake news, when we see in two months all the newspapers of this autonomous community with headlines: "the list of waiting for a thousand two hundred children in the infant schools of Coruña, Lugo, Pontevedra, Ourense, in all cities and in many villages of this autonomous community." There's no such list of waiting, because you're intentionally moving out of public squares to private children's schools; that's why the balance is zero at the end. Budgets. You said, "If the Government of Spain comes up with as many funds as we do." But if the Government of Spain has increased the game by 59%, the highest...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u70	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u71	...from the history of this country to the dependence, there has never been any higher. So far the budgets were bad, now they're lies, and it turns out they're not lies, and I ask you to correct them, Counsellor, because that was about the role presented in a budget project in the Congress of Deputies, where you voted against expanding that credit. Because neither you nor your predecessors have asked for that 50-50 funding this whole time that the Socialist Group and the PSdEG continue to defend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u72	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u73	...and they're asking for it now because they're not interested. Look, by the way, Madam Counsellor -- and I'm finished, president, really -- "a Galician woman who brings more opportunities to young people." I don't know how you can say that after I've had to listen to all these weeks that your party will do everything possible to prevent the rise of the minimum interprofessional salary, which would improve the lives of many young people and girls. You guys are more than "more family." We, from the PSdEG, are from "better society," Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u75	First of all, about social income in cities, it's a competition from the board, and if it was necessary to boost this type of income was because the risk was insufficient, because it wasn't enough, and what caused positive effect on these rents, apart from the people you gave coverage, is that it also partially excited the risk files by the board of Galicia. So the first thing they have to do about risk is analyze why it's one of the lowest coverage incomes of the state, which does not reach 7% of the population at risk of poverty, and why that Act of social inclusion does not really serve social inclusion. We've registered a social income bill that at least considers that the risk budget should be quadrupled into a legislation, at least. Because the social crisis, the one we always talk about, those five years in which GDP grows but the social crisis does not emerge, demands new social protection mechanisms. As for the Valle-Inclán Residence, if you're seeing solutions, as you said, then there was some solution. So what we ask for is simply a dialogue with that municipal corporation that unanimously called for this dialogue to the Union. Because the reality is that many people who reside there have been offered a square at the boat, from Vilanova de Arousa to the boat, or Manzaneda or Monforte. That's a reality in our country, which many people, especially in cases of social emergency files, have to move around, move their relatives who need a residence many kilometers away and lose that social bond, and that has to do with the lack of public squares. As far as you've come to announce here today about the need to assess, the need to keep up to date the vaccination schedule in children's schools, we agree with any measure that would contribute effectively to maintaining that vaccination rate, so that the immunity of the group is maintained. What happens is that there is no consensus among the pediatric community that such a measure could foster and continue to raise awareness about the importance of vaccination or that it would result in rejection. We therefore hope that this counterproductive effect should be analysed calmly and avoided because, as all pediatric societies say, vaccination in the Spanish State is the highest in Europe. And, of course, it could only be done with the vaccines covered by Sergas, because in this country today there is a vaccine recommended by the Spanish Pediatric Society, that of Meningocococcal B, which, as you know, costs each family 106 euros per dose and that for many families it is very harmful and that many families use that Welcome Card to pay for their vaccine. And taking advantage of what we're talking about as a child, you asked us to move proposals. I could also review the non-legislative proposals that the People's Party has rejected in this House. Well, pay attention to the needs of the special centre Barcia; you mentioned that you have a planned concentration, because you've been claiming that need for places of attention to functional diversity for years. Increase your attention time. The Community early care network is essential to ensure equal opportunities for all children so that they can have adequate development, any who have development difficulties. They are, by the way, implementing the Plan for the Prevention of Child Obesity. It turns out that there is a plan to prevent childhood obesity in the autonomous community, which has the highest rates of childhood obesity and which is not activated, which is not met. Or they increase social education, because one of the issues that most concern us about childhood is that increase that is being detected from behavioural disorders, and that are in many cases behind a protection file or a file that triggers the imposition of judicial measures on minors. And his own memory of budgets, which I used as a basis for this response, because it seems to us that he was already giving warning signals, indicates that there are no resources, there are no therapeutic hospitalization resources. You're protecting minors because they affect privatization, and there's everything that's happened to the center of Montealegre. They lack resources and lack social education, because soon there is no follow-up to these cases when these minors comply with the measures and then community social services do not have social education resources in many municipalities to follow up on this new reality of increasing behavioural disorders in minors. You asked for proposals. I ask you to review all the non-legislative proposals that the opposition we have tabled in this House and that have been rejected by the People's Party, some even as, for example, a protocol of attention to the reality of older and disabled people living alone in our country, who then assumes as their own, as a propaganda element, but without going to the bottom of the matter. So, if you want proposals, we leave these to you about childhood, but you also review the debates in this House.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u76	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. We follow the recipe for the opposition, because the advisor asks for contributions and they do what they do is give revenue to the Galician Union that they themselves do not apply where they rule. The nationalist spokesperson — which makes him so funny — asks the advisor to create a real public network of children's schools, a real public network of children's schools. One hundred percent of the municipally competent children's schools in the Town Hall of Santiago are privatized; one hundred percent of the municipally competent children's schools in the Town Hall of Coruña are privatized; one hundred percent of the municipally competent children's schools in the City Hall of Vigo are privatized. We continue with the recipes of the opposition. They also ask for a real public network of social services. Well, you guys when you were in the government privatized the management of the lunch program at home, privatized the transport service and the dining room of all the day centers you opened. They privatized Chantada's residence during his Union Government. They privatized the home aid service and dining on wheels from all the cities where you rule. Why do you encourage and replicate recipes that don't apply to where you rule? Why? Explain why. [[Applause]] Then, for the nationalist spokesperson, it doesn't mean anything that the Council of Galicia allocates more than 731 million euros to social policies and tells us that, of course, it is an obligation of the Galician board. And isn't it a city council's obligation to invest in corporate services? Because if you just have to invest the Galician board and manage social services, I ask you, why are the cities governed by the BNG in that national ranking like the municipalities that least invest in social services? why? Oh, because it's the duty of the Galician Union. The BNG councils have absolutely nothing to invest in social services. How much did you invest the Pontevedra Council in social policies?, how much or Cangas?, how much or Carballo? Of course, you come here to take credit for the budget of the Galician Union when where you rule, you don't apply anything at all and you don't run the social services budget. Well, to clarify, it was said here that Galicia has 315 municipalities; no, Galicia has 313 municipalities, by the way, 166 governed by the People's Party, 91 ruled by the Socialist Party. I say this because the socialist spokesperson comes here to boast of the social policies of the largest city where they rule, which is Vigo's council, and says it's the municipality with the most Risga applicants; then, he's recognizing that Vigo's council is the municipality that most people in situations of vulnerability and poverty have and is recognizing that, being the council with more people at risk of social exclusion and poverty, it's the council that later on to solve the Risga's demands. So you send a message, you, who is a socialist, to see if you're being heeded by the socialist mayor of the Vigo Town Hall and to speed up the proceedings and stop being the Town Hall that takes time to process Risga's requests. [[Applause]] By the way, Counsellor, something surprising: this is the Socialist Party's recipe for solving the demographic problem we have in Galicia. [[Mr. Rodríguez Arias shows a document.]] The Socialist Party's recipe says: "10 years ago, with the Socialist Party, there were 599,000 more than 65 years of age in Galicia; today"—as a negative news— "with Feijóo, 675,000 more than 65 years ago." I mean, now that there's more population than 65 years ago than ten years ago, and that seems to the Socialist Party to be negative news. It must be that your recipe for solving the demographic problem in Galicia is that in Galicia people die before, because we have no other explanation, we have no other explanation; it seems you don't want to... [[Murmurs.]] By the way, what a great disloyalty to inaugurate a child's school in a municipality like the one in Vilagarcia and that the socialist mayor only invites the president of the Pontevedra deputy, what a great disloyalty! [[Murmurs.]] Because look, both the staff and the staffing do it on the board of Galicia, but the board of Galicia has not been invited to that opening of that child school. What a great campaign of the Socialist Party! What a great campaign! And look, the We Can Tide tells us that the Risga in Galicia doesn't come, it doesn't work, it doesn't do anything at all. [[Murmurs.]] So, what they propose...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u78	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u79	...it's that income—renamed, Mr President—universal basic; a universal basic income on which in 2014, in Europeans, we can say that they were betting for that universal basic income; an income for all citizens, regardless of their age, their economic resources, whether they were working or not. What happened? Let them change their mind. In 2016, in the general elections...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u80	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u81	...the star proposal disappears from your program. They no longer want that universal basic income; now they want a guaranteed income, for homes without income. Look, you apply your measures depending on how they're interested, if they're general, if they're autonomous, if they're PP, if they're Joint, if they're State.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u82	Thank you. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u83	Look, people can't walk with these issues, and the Galician board does what it does is bet on social services, bet on people and, above all, on those who are worse off. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Close the courtroom, social policy advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot deny today that I am concerned — and I am very concerned — that Mrs de En Marea is questioning the vaccines, as her MEP has done in the European Parliament, but we, like 99% of the Greeks and the Greeks, are aware of the need to protect our children and our daughters from protecting public health. Because, Mrs. Verao, what you just said is not being responsible. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, after my first five months as advisor — although for Mrs. Blanco eight months ago — I leave this House with clear ideas about what each party demands: an angry BNG because Galicia exercises its self-government and fulfils its obligation to improve the well-being of our community, although I want to thank Mrs. Prado all her contributions, because, we coincided or did not coincide with all of them, you made contributions today. A PSOE that covers with fake news the absolute lack of commitment from the central government of his party. Because, Mrs. Blanco, everyone can be confused, as happened to that newspaper, which rectified the next day. But, Mrs. Blanco, after the paper corrected and Mrs. Rodríguez Arias made her point at her mistake, insisting on it is not a confusion, insisting on it is a deliberate attempt to deceive all the Greeks and all the Greeks. [[Applause]] Today I get out of here seeing a tide without credibility, because in social matters, as in all other matters, the councils that govern have done absolutely nothing. Anyway, I want to thank both the BNG and the Marea for their contributions. Thank you for making this debate and all these criticisms, or many of them, very constructive. From the German Government we will continue, of course, every day, working for our children, working for our youth, working for our elders and people with disabilities, without rest. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u86	Thank you, Counselor. [[Mr Vázquez Verao asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs Vázquez Verao, why do you want the word?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u87	For Article 76.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u88	I'm sorry. Let them give a voice to Mrs Vázquez Verao's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u89	Yes, you can review the Journal of Sessions, but what I said, on behalf of my group, is that we agree with any measure that effectively contributes to maintaining the vaccination rate so that the immunity of the group is maintained, and from there I continued to advocate the need to maintain the high rate of vaccination and to maintain the immunity of the group. And all the opinions I've quoted are from the pediatric community, from the scientific community, and I'm not content to be discredited by such a matter of such importance.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u90	Thank you. His own slaughter. Stay there. [[Mr. Fernández Leiceaga asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Leicega, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u91	Well, actually, for two reasons. The first one, to correct an inaccuracy. The Galician Board has been invited to the opening of the children's school in Vilagarcía. First precision. [[Murmurs.]] And secondly, to ask the spokesperson for the People's Party to withdraw the insinuation that the Socialist Group intends to solve the demographic problem by favoring the deaths of older people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u92	I didn't understand that. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u93	Yes, yes, I ask you to remove that information which is inappropriate for a debate in the Galician Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u94	Silence! Let's go easy, let's go easy. Now I'm going to give Mrs. Rodríguez Arias the floor if you want to correct something. [[Murmurs.]] I didn't understand that. No, sorry, no, no. I would like to pay attention to the debate. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But, at all, if you're going to talk to her, if you want to correct her. [[Murmurs.]] Go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u95	Mr President, just to clarify that what we said is that the Socialist Party believed it was good news that now, ten years after the People's Party's Government, there are more people over 65 in Galicia than when you vote they would rule. Just what we were saying is that you see as a negative news that more people over the age of 65 are now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u96	That's what I understood.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u97	...that when you ruled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u98	Silence! It's been clarified. Please, it was clear. Let's not get things out of where they're not. No one can wish for death in a matter or a debate, because we wouldn't consent to it. I understood what I understood and everything became clear. We'll stop the session. And here comes the problem of always. Then we'll be here at 4:00. Four and a quarter, sixteen fifteen, a very careful hour, I say! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u99	Good afternoon. We resume the session with point 3, which corresponds to motions. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Monserrat Prado Cores, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the situation of public health in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u100	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u101	Good afternoon. In the past we asked and asked the advisor about the serious situation in which he was and where the public health was in Galicia. We met with a councilman who was castrated in his position of sovereignty, so we must qualify. A counselor who, at least, did not exteriorize anything at all that could make us see that he was taking note of what was happening, a counselor who showed absolutely no evidence that he was being aware of what was going on with the professionals and with the Greeks and with the Greeks. An interpellation in which, since BNG, we have asked for answers to the alternatives that since his advice was on whether they were being given or whether they were intended to give to the demands — I insist — of the professionals and the population, to the serious problems of Galician public health. He gave none and even dared to say that there were no cuts and that there were no privatizations; it was his maximum. A counselor playing escapism, taking no responsibility and not being able to offer proposals that respond to the demands of doctors, nurses, CAPs, mothers and parents, absolutely denying reality. A reality offered by Teimuda, a reality where today we can see that the media reflects headlines like the rejection of doctors and nurses by Sergas because of their rejection of this plan of the new primary care model, where scientific associations, family medicine, pediatricians, the Galego Medical College Council and the Galaga Association of Family and Community Medicine, all of them completely reject that model proposal for the improvement of primary care. Why do they do it? Well, because they don't believe empty content proposals anymore. What professionals are demanding are human resources, management capacity for primary care; what they want is time, what they want is budgeting, what we've seen demanding in this parliament for a long time: what they want are real measures so that our country's public health does not follow in the deterioration process continues to what the measures implemented since the People's Party since 2009 are taking our public health. That is why the BNG is presenting this motion today, which we believe is realistic if these policies are really intended to be rectified and if what is intended — as we intend since the BNG — are measures that run counter to those which the People's Party is carrying out, measures in the direction that are insistently demanded by professionals and professionals and measures that are increasingly demanding also the Galician society, the Greeks and the Greeks. The first is that this parliament calls for the end of the councillor. Of course, we believe that you can't go on in front of public health a person who demonstrates that policy of systematically closing down to accept the reality that is out there, of closing in on proposals that really respond to demands that are being made from professionals and from the street. We are seeing that it is not as far as it is concerned that it does not respond to the proposals made here, in this parliament, but that it is the whole of the professionals in the sector who are telling you that you are not putting proposals on the table that respond to your demands. With this, the first of the points of the initiative here today, the BNG is to stop the advisor as a recognition that he does not take the mistakes and that he is not willing to start a new step that leaves behind the cuts, the privatization and the suffering they cause. [[Applause]] The second point of the motion we are presenting is that the Galician Parliament urges the Government to take a whole series of clear commitment measures to rectify this health policy that is destroying the Greek public health and that is jeopardizing the right to health. The first is, of course, an increase in the budget for public health. The second is a dimensioning and the stability of staff paintings; we have already demanded it on more occasions: summoning all vacant squares in all categories. If six thousand structural squarees are being offered in the transfer contest, it means that there are at least six thousand vacant squares. We believe that it is necessary to give stability to all these squares and that these squares must be convened in public job offers. We must offer stable and dignified contracts and put an end to the policy of precariousness in which the People's Party has gone into a very important part of our country's public health professionals. We have to replace professionals with all the absence, we have to stop making these contracts for hours, for days, for weekends. If a professional is on maternity leave or for any other kind of eventuality, a person must be hired for the whole of that contingency, not for a couple of hours or a couple of days. That's what makes the professionals come out of our country to other places where they offer them quality in recruitment. And increase training squares and MIR specialists. On the other hand, what we demand is the removal of the waiting lists by personal contracting and having the resources of Sergas available, not the removal of the drift waiting lists to private health. We're talking about eliminating waiting lists because, as much as the People's Party tries to make us swallow with mill stones saying that we have smaller and lower waiting lists, the whole population knows that that's a lie. And today I bring here only one sample — but it is exemplary — of the reality that every day the Greeks and the Greeks live. I can bring a lot of hundreds, but I bring one for you to see the pain that happens every day to many Greeks and Greeks. It's the date they gave last week to a woman in Xynecology at the CHUS in Santiago. [[Mr Prado Cores shows you a document to the members of the House.]] And, like her, in the past few days, there were about a hundred people who filed claims in the CHUS because of similar circumstances. They called on her on June 1, 2020, a favorite quote from Xynecology to a woman who has a very important health problem; a new woman with a major, serious and worrisome health problem; and it turns out that she gets an appointment by June 2020. And then you have the guts to tell us that waiting lists in our country are fantastic, that we are the champions and that we are at the head of the Spanish state. It's all a lie. This is the reality of our country's waiting lists: that there are women like this every day. This waiting list is the reality: a date this week last June of 2020, this is the reality of our country's waiting lists. A woman with a serious health problem in gynecology, and, like her, hundreds and thousands in our country; this is the real reality of waiting lists. That's why we today, here, are asking for the removal of waiting lists by hiring personal and operating the devices on the public network, because it's possible to do so, we have to have a political will to want to do it. A plan to improve primary care, to increase investment to at least 20 percent of the budget and, immediately, 200 million euros. A year ago, the BNG was here debating a law to implement 200 million for primary care immediately, by the year 2018. They voted against it because it didn't seem necessary. It was necessary, it is still necessary and that is what professionals are asking for: immediate resources, realities. We sue him again here today. And then we demand a reduction in the precariousness and temporality of the optional staff. That contract that you are offering to optional professionals, the aid continuity contract, is a clear tendency to perpetuate precariousness, to open the entrance door to extend it to other groups — pediatrics, nursing... — is the risk of making fixed squares in the system with this modality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u102	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u103	They have the opposition of the affected themselves, who don't want this contract, because it's to continue with precariousness; they don't want it. That is why we are presenting this proposal, which is to call for a public job offer for the 40th square kilometres of the transfer contest, which is being offered in primary, which is in line with the current model of regular and primary care primary care — of the CAP — the volunteering of guards and with guaranteed staff, that the staff who make allowances in the CAP must receive the same remuneration as those who are in the CAP, destination and stable cartel and not create structural squares with these characteristics.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u104	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u105	It is the demand that professionals are making, and I hope that once and for all the Members of the People's Party will listen to these demands.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u106	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u107	Finished, President. This motion brought here today by the BNG is nothing but what professionals are demanding in the street. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u109	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. The truth is that I already wanted to talk, especially because, in addition to — they will allow me — they mentioned earlier a council I know, about the investments of the Union and the actions that are taking place. Look: what the Galician Union has to do in some municipalities — when you mentioned Vilagarcía — is to invest, because the school that has been done, which is theoretically of social policy, do you know how much money it takes from Galician Union? Zero. But more importantly, if you want to attend the events, remember that a house that was seized by Martial Dorado has just been allocated for social use. [[Applause]] I don't know if you're going to have to invite the opening, because, who's gone, just like before there were people from the PP there in the first place; and there were people from the PP in the same way as Martial Dorado. Finally, Mr President, I think it is important for us to be precise in the debate, so it will allow me to appreciate it. On the proposal here today, in our group we will support the initiative. It is broad, it is extensive and therefore it is intended to be an initiative which we understand as a clear declaration of intentions, of guidance from where the health situation should go. So, even if we could fine-tune some detail, actually the essence of the initiative we share, and that's why it's going to count on our support. And besides, it clearly shows the current situation of our health: there is an obvious chaos in the situation we live; there is a surpassed, hidden counsellor, basically, who has to ask, curiously, for appearances in this parliament after he asks them to oppose, to run, to see if we then conceal something; a council that needs to be renewed directly, because it was mainly guilty of getting here. So if the culprit gets here, which is the management of the council, he wants to be what renews the counseling now, there may be some problem; it doesn't seem very coherent. This situation basically comes up with a question of contempt. In recent years, Xunta has been habitually disregarding all appeals made by political groups, unions, professional groups, individual professionals, patient associations... everyone has come to indicate that we are going to arrive here, except for the Junta de Galicia, which despised the opinions that they thought. And, as a result, services were concentrated on the reform of the Health Act. In a country where the population is distributed very widely, services have been concentrated; in a country where communications are more difficult, services have been concentrated, citizens' services have been accommodated. And so in primary care it happens that we reach out to professionals and forget primary care for years, aiming, at the last hour, to reform it. And we turned doctors, as they say the other day -- a professional said in a media -- into nurses' interns, into interns: they dispatch sick instead of attending them. And this is our country's grave: we have a problem of time and quality of attention, because professionals can't anymore, they're saturated, and this job can't be done in good condition. There was an attempt to initiate certain measures. As a reference, that model of contract in the Basque Country was considered, although it remained only in a declaration of intent. We pointed out that this beginning of measures could be a good path — it would have to be taken before, but now it could be a good path — but that it could never be a final point, it should be a starting point. Well, Junta has once again despised those opinions and now it's up to reality. All professionals are saying the same thing: that it's not enough, that it's not worth a cosmetic measure, that it's not good to solve the real problem of the situation. And, therefore, it is necessary to go to the bottom. Again a hidden counsellor, again a chaotic counsellor, again a disarmed counsellor, which, in fact, gives the feeling that he doesn't know when to correct. It's already funny to be wrong in one sense and that it's capable of being wrong in the other, too, that you have to be quite inconsistent with your own policies to be wrong when you're rectified and when you say what you were thinking. And in this case, the truth is they got bingo. There are lines of work. The first, the staff: it won't improve anything in Galicia's health situation if we don't expand the staff, nothing! It's not possible, because we're still having, for many turns we've given him, many doctors and doctors who care for fifty-six patients a day, and that's impossible; to make a minimum of quality is impossible. [[Applause]] Nothing will improve without personnel. There may be things in which, in addition to being a personal thing, some reorganization can help; for example, to recover those primary care agencies that were eliminated in 2012 and that now they want to reformulate differently so that it doesn't seem like we recovered what we ourselves eliminated. But nothing will improve without staff, like skills. I remind you that, here, our group has been thinking about expanding the catalog of diagnostic tests for doctors. The reply of the Galician Union was that in 2014 it had already begun to see that story and that it was working — 2014!—. We remember that the PP was opposed to nurses having more skills, which is less unfortunate than reformulated thanks to a new government. In the end, new skills, now a contract of continuity — although not implemented — we now speak of giving new training to new specialists... all that has been eliminated since the arrival of the Government of Feijóo. And the reality is that it seems that Junta has found the solution, and it is that Mr. Feijóo, to manage the health now wants to be like Mr. Touriño, but, of course, to be like Mr. Touriño must believe in the solutions of the governments that have implemented a good health. Because when one believes that private health is very good and that the public has to give it almost as charity, it's impossible in the end, because you can't reform a system if you don't believe it. And that's what seems to happen this time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u110	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u111	We will support the BNG initiative. We believe it goes in the right line and will therefore count on our favourable vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u112	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Miranda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u113	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Prado, we will, of course, support this motion. The situation of public health in Galicia is tremendously worrisome. I also attended fifty-six patients, as Mr. Torrado now mentioned. I come from a primary care consultation, and I can assure you that I know this poor situation. The situation of the Greek public health is absolutely worrying. After years in which the People's Party has abandoned the care of public resources by promoting diversion to concerted centres, the situation is exploding in our faces and all. Open a newspaper. We'll see ambulance technicians and techniques mobilized under dignified conditions, very valuable professionals hired by companies questioned with millionaire wages. We used to visit the bridge technicians and techniques these days, which clean up the ambulance in the air and rest under a roof where it rains. We'll also see collapsed emergency services, with people dying — if they die — in their corridors, because there's a little notice of entering and because primary care is saturated. Somewhere I'd have to go to stop sick people. We see that his professionals are protesting, that there are complaints in the prosecutor's office, that there are difficulties in covering heads of service and that there are people who die after hours in the hallway. Yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's look at the pediatrician, from which we will debate right next: entire rural families mobilized by a pediatrician or a pediatrician for their daughters; now take Zas and the district of San Sadurniño, but before there were others and then there will be more. A rural man who rubs without doctors and without doctors to care for children. Let's look at mental health: patients enrolled in socio-sanitary centers, undeveloped suicide plans, mechanical restraints, psychotherapy that don't arrive... let's take a look at the CAP on the ground of war: not even, after months of negotiation, they've got Sergas and their professionals tired of living in the conflict, signing a minimum agreement, an agreement that doesn't have to work hours to get sick or that doesn't force them to go to emergency alone. Let's look, for example, at precarious doctors: a whole life being formed for a garbage contract that provides them with any eventuality of Sergas. And finally, let's look at primary: I've never seen so much consensus around her, and I've been linked to her for nineteen years. I consent to meeting at twelve in the morning and six in the afternoon asking for dignity; consensus rejecting the plan of counseling; consensus in scientific societies and professional schools; consensus between the heads and chiefs of Vigo; consensus among nurses, wanting to define their role; consensus saying that in this way the sick, the walkers, the palliatives, violence against women, the mentally ill, chronic patients, the pluripathological elderly, and consensus against waiting lists can not be properly addressed. So you can't titrate MIRs, you can't train students, you can't investigate, you can't look at the community, you can't prevent it; so the system won't be supported. By the way, in this plan they forgot professionals: a few days ago we received the squad of midwives, who had to be seen to be invited to them at the last hour. It doesn't matter the health of women, which we will also debate today. Let's continue to look at primary: counsellorship draws a non-consensual plan, with groups not selected by professionals, in record time, without concrete, without sufficient professionals, without budget, without primary care agencies, without overall vision, without systemic focus, without centrality in the system, without defining professional profiles—see, if not, nurses—, without order and without planning; a plan that doesn't like anyone else. Let's keep looking at headlines. Leo: "The rejection of doctors and nurses puts the plan of the Sergas for primary," says La Voz de Galicia. "All the medical collective rejects the draft of a "assuming new model" of Primary Care," says Galicia Confidential. There's also consensus in the press. "The nursing profession is also disarranged from Sergas primary care reform," says Praza Pública. " Frontal rejection of doctors to the plan of Feijóo to deal with the health crisis", by El País. "The chiefs of service (...) reject the primary reform", by Faro de Vigo. And if they want us to look at the more conservative press, ABC says, "Doctors," and I would expand to the rest of the healthcare professionals, "there are real solutions." My colleague Manolo Sardinia, head of resignation service in Vigo and former president of the Galician Association of Physicians and Family Physicians, said in an article by La Voz, that to start walking you must know the goal. But in this council, they don't know about Ithacas, and Almuña keeps very little like a contemporary Ulysses. He doesn't know where he's going. He looks like a fireman putting out fires. Their goal is not to bet on public, equitable, accessible, continuous and integral health. His intention has long been seen: to demolish public health, privatize in a covert way and do business for friends. We'll support the motion, of course.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Miranda. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u115	Thank you, Mr. President. I, the first one I want to point out, ladies and gentlemen, is the magnificent quality of public health in Galicia, which is constantly disbanded in this parliament and which has been defended by each and every one of the participants in the research committee proposed by the People's Group and proposed by the other groups. And I also wanted to recommend to opposition groups and members of my group to read a Sunday article in El Correo Gallego by Professor Castillo talking about fake news in health care and why such things are being done. I recommend it to you, because I think you could learn a lot. Here we spoke a few moments ago when people were dying in the corridors of hospitals in order not to enter; that seems very strong to me. There was a recent report of deaths in the corridors that eventually proved that it wasn't even in the corridors. And there was also talk about a particular case. A friend of mine asked his family doctor for Xynecology without preference in Santiago in January and he has an appointment for March. I don't know the specific case, but we can never talk about an isolated case to justify the theoretical deficiencies in this public health. And we're constantly talking about privatizations, ladies and gentlemen, and neither the judgment of the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital, nor the situation in Povervisa, nor the claims of ambulance businessmen suggest that the People's Party favours both private companies as well as they want to see; nor the numbers of concerts, less than in 2008. And, in the face of the situation that was reported here in the full past during the counsellor's questioning, there are already realities. For example, the strike of the CHUS Emergency Service has been resolved; there is a group of doctors who are still on strike. Negotiated with CAP staff with closer postures; this group wants these differences to be solved. They sat at the business desk and ambulance workers. One hundred and seventy-five measures were presented in the draft of the new primary care model, which is in the period of contributions by professionals and citizens, with short- and medium-term measures. They're talking about rejection: I could tell them about the rejection that the current primary care model had thirty years ago; it had nothing to do with, it was much worse than what's happening right now. And this continuity contract has been published for professionals, who, logically, have to make substitutions; we all know that in health we have to make substitutions. I'd like to know about that kind of contract some time ago. The councillor recalled here the figures that he never mentioned in his interventions: more budgets than in 2008 and more percentage of budgets devoted to health; more staff, with more family doctors, more pediatricians and more nursing; better historical figures of waiting lists, especially in priority one; lower budget for concerts; maximum time assurance law; investments in public hospitals and health centres; professional career; open and permanent transfer contest; and stabilisation plan for professionals, among other measures. What's going on? That here the opposition never gives a figure, here everything is philosophy; nor the first digit, all is the philosophy of health. But look: the Greeks and the Greeks know us and know the opposition, and the evidence is in the constant and continuous result of the elections in our autonomous community. I didn't want to repeat or repeat what we talked about the other day in Commission 5th — in the Commission on Health — about Teruel's hospital: a capital hospital in the province of an autonomous community governed by the Socialist Party that has to close hospital services like otorrinolaryngology or rheumatology, and the sick of Teruel, the capital of the province of an autonomous community of the Socialist Party, have to go to Zaragoza to the otorrinal and to the rheumatologist; three hundred and fifty kilometers of going back and forth. That's the management of the socialists in public health. And what do the Aragonese authorities say? They say it's not a management problem and it's a state problem; Mr. Lambán says it's a state problem, it's not a Aragonese problem. No comment. With regard to the points of the motion, of course, we will not support the request for an end of the Counsellor. We say it's a dialogueal person who's looking for solutions to the problems of Greek health, particularly primary care. The People's Group defends the performance of Mr Vázquez Almuínña, who is doing a magnificent job in improving and updating Welsh public health. We're proposing the incorporation of last year's surplus to allocate a portion of that surplus to public health, and we'll see who that budget intake depends on. They are proposing public job offers with a large number of markets within the legal possibilities, in addition to the ongoing open competition and the Stabilisation Plan. I would like the opposition to support, as the unions have done, the contract of continuity in primary care, which is a real wonder. And, over the increase in MIR squares, the accreditation of new training units is required and also the empowerment of foreign professionals. I, of course, have to apologize to the colleagues in my group for repeating and repeating the same arguments for the last time, but it is the only answer to an opposition that tries to partisanize with public health, trying to wear this government and its president with a constant set of fallacies and a despising, maintained in time, of the Greek public health. I repeat how it began: Greek health is very good, although improved, of course. These days the demands of a doctor in Vimianzo appeared in the hemerotheca of a Greek newspaper twenty-five years ago — only twenty-five years ago — he asked for a laboratory, oxygen and an X-ray service; twenty-five years ago. Those twenty-five years over twenty-one governed the People's Party and just over three ruled the Bipartite. That advance of the Welsh public health took place after more than twenty-one years of the People's Party's government. Don't forget, ladies. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u116	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Author group of the motion, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u117	Well, in the previous plenary I've already brought to the councillor, Mr. Núñez Centeno, the data from the General Account of the Board of Auditors, where he puts the personal data, where he says in 2016 -- which is the last year audited -- there are 37,648 professionals in Sergas, when in 2009 there were thirty-eight thousand -- that is, there are fewer 1,099 people. Here's the budget data for 2019, where there's less staff. [[Mr Prado Cores shows you a document to the members of the House.]] I used them to tell you where they get their data, and still today we're waiting for them to tell us where they get their data. [[Mr Prado Cores shows you a document to the members of the House.]] With which, data we bring here. [[Applause]] You say whoever gave you, I don't know how many years after you finished your career, they offered you the contract. I suppose, too, I mean, in prehistory... I'm wondering if you'd like to be in the case of Rachel, who, with a serious health problem, has to be waiting year and a half, with the anguish of knowing whether she's going to be late or not when she sees her as a doctor. [[Mr Prado Cores shows you a document to the members of the House.]] I'd like to know if you'd like to be in Raquel's case. Tell me if you'd like to be in Raquel's case, in that magnificent health that you so advocate. I ask the honourable Members and honourable Members of the People's Party to stop being bottled up in the lie of a Welsh public health that has no problem, because if you have many problems, you hear not here the opposition groups — they should — but the street and the professionals who are demanding solutions that you are not giving them. I appreciate the affirmative vote shown by the Socialist Party and En Marea. I think this initiative we bring here today is not a statement of intent, it is to go to the bottom of the problems. Because what we demand are concrete measures, which are the ones that the professionals are demanding. We demand a contract that does not consolidate precariousness, that it does not assume a model change from the back door and that it does not assume the creation of area Pediatrics in a covert way, which is what the professionals say that requires this care continuity contract; that's what the professionals tell us. What we demand here today is to go to the bottom: we demand personal, because without stable staff with conditions and with dignity it's not possible to health in condition. Dignity for professionals and dignity for patients, which is to guarantee better health care. We demand the recovery of primary care agencies: it's not possible to have primary care without resolution capacity, without management capacity and without budgets, so we demand immediate budgets. A year ago we put a law on the table with 200 million for primary care. We said how and where they could get out to apply them right away. We say where, now, how can it be done; not looking where they can remain. We say where they can be removed, it's possible; we need political will. With which, they are not declarations of intent, they are real questions to apply them already, to really put them into effect, if you really want to defend public health. They are, in short, proposals for issues that are affecting professionals today and, above all, their working conditions, but which are totally direct, affecting the quality of care they are suffering from by the Greeks and by the Greeks. And if you want to fix it, you have to put real measures.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u118	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u119	And what the professionals are telling them is that the measures they're putting on the table are not real, because they don't take any concrete action. These are concrete, and they're the ones that're demanding there in the street.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u120	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u121	If you want to put something into practice and solve something, you should vote in favour, at least, some. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the situation of the pediatric service in the Greek health system
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u123	No amendments were tabled to this motion. To formulate the motion you have the word Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u124	Thank you again, President. We have today set this motion to the thread of the previous plenary inquiry, which is based on the same criteria, as it could not be otherwise. There is a question about the situation of pediatrics that it is necessary to clarify, that we try to expose always to try to show that, as much as it says here about what we've been doing, we prefer to define our position to which no one defines it, because usually, besides, from the People's Party, they don't heed anything that we have proposed. There's a general problem with pediatrics, there's a shortage of professionals, there's problems in every space, there's problems everywhere, but there's different solutions or at least different solutions attempts. This is important to clarify it, because then they come here to set examples. I remember when you set the example of Valencia, until you realized that the model of Valencia that the socialists posed was to recover for public management hospitals that privatized the PP, and then you shut up; that was good. Now we have the Teruel model — which is fantastic! — where the Government says, of course, as we say here — that it is a state problem, but that there are intermediate solutions in which autonomous communities can provide something — that part forgot them —. By the way, of course, it's a state problem. How long does it take to form an MIR once it's called? Five years? Who ruled five years ago in the state and in Aragon? That is why we now have a problem in Aragon — and here too — because when these governments coincide in the state and in the autonomous communities where the People's Party was ruling — especially when those governments agree — there is a problem, because the MIR squares are not extended, because that is supposed to invest in public health. And now the Government of Aragon is paying for the inefficiency of the People's Party. When they speak of inheritance received, these are also inheritances received: less professional. There's an attempt to conceal, that's good. Now, suddenly, all the public health problems are to blame... at the moment it was Zapatero, then it was the Government Tourin and now it's Pedro Sánchez. Sometimes I think the People's Party votes for socialists to have someone to blame, yes, I believe; actually, I'm convinced. [[Murmurs.]] Now they have more voting options: Vox and Citizens will be voting — that they don't leave them without votes, I also tell them. But, actually, I have the feeling that now it doesn't matter who blames you, what you have to have is someone who blames you, which is now Teruel. One day Sweden was quoted here, too, Sweden was quoted. By the way, about Aragon: what one can do is to have 100 professionals per 100,000 inhabitants, 100 doctors per 100,000 inhabitants, like Aragon for Galicia. Contraction, that's what Aragon does, by the way, for the last three years; that's what Aragon does. But I thought after explaining this at the commission, they wouldn't come here with this, but it's okay. But besides, it turns out there's no data. Let's look at the problem of pediatrics and, by extension or by association too, of family medicine in data. By the way, thank you for retrieving the most sensible speech of assuming there's an accreditation problem, because Mr. Feijóo and the advisor were giving the bat for weeks saying they were asking for an extraordinary summons. For what? If there are no accredited squares. Why would they want to call for more staff if they don't have where to send him? You'll first have to believe the squares, which is what you've had to recognize here the counselor in the interpellation of the past. They'll have to apply for accreditation! How many accreditations have increased the close collaboration between Government Feijóo and Government Rajoy in the last three years that they were able to do? How many of the 300 and something that could be in Galicia? How many have increased in three years? Two; in three years, two. And there's a problem between pediatrics and family medicine, we all know, right? Two accreditations! But it's more, look, there's a problem in family and community medicine, which I suppose we all know from time to time, because we know that. You know, at that time when the government Rajoy and the government Feijóo worked together, what happened to the accredited family and community medicine squares? They came down. There was a problem and you lowered the squares. Very clever! And now it's Pedro Sanchez's fault. Very clever! No doubt, very intelligent, because someone must have thought that going down the squares would increase staff; this is a tremendously logical decision. Do you want more data? In the last MIR call, the last government that made the MIR call—which, fortunately, was no longer a People's Party government, as it will not be the next one—has increased the pitches called from MIR, also to Galicia. And do you know how many squares in Pediatrics were called? All possible. And do you know how many will be summoned next year? All possible. That they're telling them, please, to believe already, that you need to enable more to convene more. And do you know what this government did to the family and community medicine squares? Increase them, in a year, more than those credits were increased in seven years. That's the data, and that's the increase. So of course there are differences from government to government; there are quite sensible approaches. Of course, then there's the real reading of the situation, and then there's the attempt to erase it. Because here's a government that's trying to find solutions, and in Galicia it's a government that's just looking for excuses. You don't care at all about the quality of health — absolutely! — what they care about is to find excuses. And so they have a government that is now giving them answers, and you assume you're right, but you can't say it, because how are they going to give reason to a socialist government? Please! That's a disaster! That can't be it! What's it gonna be like? And you're putting them in front of the evidence that you didn't do your homework. Believe the squares, do the work, have resources, indicate where, with which tutors, with which resources and in which hospitals, and there will have a government that will collaborate. That's what we've seen proposing to them, and that's what's also in our initiative. Let us deal with this process. If we all agree! We will defend that; we will defend it with the Rajoy Government and we will defend it now with the Sánchez Government. In addition, the current government has demonstrated and openly said it would be in favour of expanding these squares whenever they believed them in form. What you can't offer is squares that aren't believed, and you know it. I'll add you one more proposal that we've added through the initiative: please don't throw out more professional Galician, don't throw away! Don't tell me there's a lot going on now. They're almost all out already! We're from the most professional communities we've thrown out. Why? Because we are one of the communities that we have worse working conditions for our healthcare professionals — worse! — and therefore the professionals go. And in Pediatrics, professionals know they have worse circumstances here. So what we demand is that we make an easier treatment for professionals. And if we have trouble covering squares for hard coverage, how do police officers or teachers cover? How do you do it? It's easy for some hard-covered squares to get better after internal promotions, transfers... positive discrimination can be dealt with in favour of professional groups to occupy difficult-covered squares, if any. And those are solutions that we've been proposing for a long time. By the way, we haven't invented anything, we pick up the proposals that exist, we consider whether they fit better into our model vision and we apply them or propose them when we don't have the ability to govern. But the professionals propose it! They do these things, because they're telling them professionals. I know I just heard that the continuity contract is wonderful; everybody complains, professionals don't want it, but it's wonderful. Of course, well, thirty years ago there wasn't! It's a great improvement over thirty years ago! Well, we hope that from thirty years ago here, of course, there will be some improvement, but as much as to celebrate it here as if it were sports goals, neither. Of course there's some improvement, but it's a very small improvement to the process we've been taking in time. So if you want or have the intention, really, to make some proposals, listen to the professionals. If they're telling them that a long time ago -- they told them millions of times in those meetings that they magnificently run the councilman -- that everyone knows what to do! There have been many occasions when they have set up working groups and specialization committees to solve all the problems. They did commissions, countercommitments, study groups... everything; they're all written, work documents... everything, thousands of times. You know what to do, but, of course, you have to do it, and you have to invest and put on staff. So we make a proposal through this motion that comes to this: to agree that we should speed up the accreditation processes so that we can ask for all possible MIR squares in Pediatrics, to agree that we will improve as far as possible — as possible — the working conditions of professionals and that we should do an extra recruitment process, because if it is possible to start thinking now about bringing out extra-Community professionals — as it has been on one occasion — other countries that can circulate here, why are we not going to be able to do so with professionals from the rest of Spain? If that's the intention. But at least someone says something about some of those intentions. While we're looking for solutions, others are looking for excuses. And they already know they're getting enough lead. You don't like pediatric care in primary school, you don't stop repeating that it's a luxury. And when you say something that's a luxury, the next thing you're saying is that we had services above our possibilities. For if it's a luxury, it's because we have great professionals and we have a health care — against which you have always voted against, by the way — that it defends and promotes attention that is a luxury. Yes, let's give these professionals the ability to work to maintain that quality because if we don't, we'll end up losing it, which may be what you want. We defend some measures that can be, and of course, if there are others that can also contribute to improving the situation of pediatrics, please, we are more than open to agree on them and to agree on them, because it is a solution that will not be for today, for tomorrow or for the past, but it will be for the long term. So, stop doing theater looking for culprits and try to solve the situation, which then happens and you stay with your ass in the air as counsellor does when he goes to the meetings of the ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u125	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u126	Within the generalized alarm in public health, the one created by the absence of pediatricians is very important: there are not few municipalities in which mobilizations are taking place demanding pediatricians. Now, from this day on, I think there's gonna be another alarm, right? It is the alarm of knowing that, probably, to make appointments, you will have to say that you are a friend of the People's Party Member, so that, instead of taking you a year and a half, you may have to make the appointment in three months. You think this appointment isn't real, just like you think we've come here with issues that we've met in any corner. [[Applause]] [[Mr Prado Cores shows you a document to the members of the House.]] I urge you, if you want to check it out, you can put an office where the people who are going through these things can come in, and they'll come up with this crazy reality and the real alarm of the people who are going through. I suppose, if you are willing to let people go from the Members and Members of the People's Party to ask for an appointment, we can see what happens from now on. I'm being scandalized today, Mr. MP of the People's Party. Well, he said there aren't few places where parents, mothers and citizenship are mobilising in general demanding pediatricians to attend to their children, because studies also show that the attention of children and children by pediatricians improves, and much, the quality of care. Not because doctors specialists in family and community medicine are not good specialists, but they are not specialists in pediatrics — it is obvious — not because doctors specialists in family and community medicine are not good specialists, but they are not specialists in cardiology or in other matters. So we can talk about mobilizations in Zas; we can talk about mobilizations in Mondariz and Covelo; we can talk about mobilizations in Aldán, Gondomar, Salnés, Isle and Ribadumia; we can talk in Ponte Caldelas and Lama; we can talk in Viveiro, Barriers, Mondoñedo and Lourenzá; we can talk in Trives; we can talk in Moeche and San Sadurniño. I mean, the country is full of alarms because of the lack of pediatricians, it's full of alarms because on many occasions the door puts pediatricians and it turns out that it's not a pediatrician who's taking care of children and children. We're seeing how in many places there's only one day a week when there's one person to take care of the most urgent things, to attend the health consultations of children and children, and the rest of the week there's no consultation of pediatricians. And this answers to a premeditated strategy: if there are no pediatricians, if these are scarce, it's because there was a premeditated decision that this is the situation, there was an ideological decision to get to this point, because if you knew what the pyramid of the professionals who were in the public health service in Galicia was, you knew what their retirement age was going to be, and you didn't want to do anything because if you wanted to get to this point. It was meant to be able to say that there are no pediatricians and, then, there's nothing we can do; that people go to private. And he wanted to get to the point where they got to the budget presentation: he wanted to get to introduce the figure of the pediatrician, who then retreated, but now, with this continuity contract, they also intend to get through the back door. There are no pediatricians in primary care, first, because they don't offer stable conditions and many of those who had gone to other health systems. Most of them, since their training is hospitable, when they have to choose, choose their squares in hospital centers. Then they didn't believe squares because they didn't want to, that wasn't their priority; they didn't call squares, and then they imposed the replacement rate they created and others didn't eliminate. So we find ourselves in this situation, so that, of course, there are solutions for the immediate one, which is an attractive recruitment policy, which makes people be attracted to being given their services in Galicia's public health service; to be faithful to the people who are, and then, short and long-term measures. What's necessary for this to happen? First, to make the political decision that there should be doctors who are pediatricians in the public health system and, above all, in primary care. That's the first decision to make. Have you taken the People's Party?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u127	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u128	Not from the BNG's point of view, you haven't made that decision. Since you haven't made that decision, what you're doing are patches so it looks like you're doing when you're actually not doing it, because, if you wanted to do it, you'd already have real answers on the table that today are not. We're going to vote in favour of this initiative, and we expect the People's Party at some point, apart from some patch to look like it does, to do something real. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u129	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Miranda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u130	Thank you, Mr. President. We will also vote in favour of this initiative because the situation of pediatric care for children and children in Greece in primary care is worrying. Not only are there no pediatricians, but they don't have an alternative demand management model either. It's more than predictable that the problem won't be fixed in the short term and, therefore, a care schedule is needed. Mothers and parents want more than the improvised solutions that are being given to us. The training of pediatricians is not carried out in one or two years, the forecasts are still insufficient and the precariousness of Sergas does not contribute to the setting of specialists. We have a demographic situation in which the decline, the dispersal and the abandonment of rural areas do not help to have future prospects — Mr Centeno blows, but it is a palmary reality. And pediatric neglect also contributes to the disgruntling of rural Galician people. It would be necessary to invest resources to prevent families with young children from leaving this space. One of them is accessible, dignified health care and meeting the needs of families. In a dispersed, rural and aging population like ours, the distribution of resources should not be done on the basis of gross rates, except in equity, that bioethics concept that they rarely consider. If there are no services for children, rural people lack the least chance of survival. A kind of positive discrimination should be established in view of the lack of other nearby resources: nearby hospitals, efficient communications, public transport and employment for mothers and parents in the municipalities themselves. It also poses a comparative aggravating for children and children with greater health needs. We have more and more children with chronic primary care pathologies that survive because of these care, and it would be desirable that these care should be administered in the most accessible and continuum place, which is primary care. In recent months — as Mrs Prado said — there have been many of the municipalities that have been organized or that have complained about pediatric coverage. That I know — among others —: Cangas, Cuntis, Mondariz, Cariño and Ortigueira, and last week I myself spoke with families of Zas, Baio and the district of San Sadurniño, Moeche, Somozas and Sardinian. By the way, some of them complained to me this same weekend because they were limited in expressing themselves in a mobilisation in Camarinas, near the president of the board; it is known that Mr. Feijóo is not interested in having parents and mothers visible their discomfort because of the absence of pediatricians. Welsh public health has no strategic plan to structure pediatric care, and they promise attention that they cannot sustain, they cannot sustain. So many years of precariousness have blown the seams of the pediatric and primary care system; there will be no short-term or medium-term pediatricians to cover the current demand. What will you tell your parents and mothers to ask for an appointment? Nor did they promote alternatives to care, without promoting the autonomy of families by solving trivial health problems. This is not solved solely with care, health education needs to be done. Where do you plan to get the pediatricians who are promising mayors to interview you? They did a lot of bad things: they failed with the model of pediatric care dependent on the hospital, and the primary know it has nothing to do with the hospital; they took account of birth data and forgot that demand is growing; they did not develop policies of promotion and education for health so that families were more autonomous in solving small problems, and, above all, they allowed them to have trained people ostracism. Because they don't look after their professionals, because they offer misery to those who have invested time, resources, savings and energy in formation, and left the country — Mr. Torrado also said so. Now we have a serious problem with health care at first level. Girls and children need resources, they need dignity and they need planning on pediatric care. We will certainly support this motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Miranda. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u132	Thank you, President. I came here to talk about pediatrics, but, well, they pulled out the MIR theme. Number of squares: in 2014, 5,920; in 2015, 6,017; in 2016, 6,097; in 2017, 6,324; in 2018, 6,513; and in 2019, 6,797. This is constantly lowering the number of MIR squares; exactly, constantly lowering them. [[Applause]] Well, with regard to the replacement rate of what Mrs Prado was talking about, it seems she always forgets that the replacement rate is 2010 and that, by chance, the People's Party did not rule. And speaking of the mothers of Mujía and the mothers of Zas, Mrs Miranda, I was at an open assembly with the mothers of Mujía, to which, by the way, the mothers of Zas who had already been gathered with me, but were all there in an open act to all the mothers who wanted to go. And we talked — Mrs Prado said — that the Greek pediatricians went to other health systems. Well, percentage of children attended by family doctors in the various autonomous communities: Balearic Islands, 48.9; Castile-A Mancha, 41.1; Madrid, 31.4; Extremadura, Canary Islands, Andalusia, Murcia, Valencia and Catalonia, around thirty per cent; Navarra, 15 per cent; Happy Arcadia, Basque Country, 13.2 per cent; Galicia, 11.9 per cent; Aragon, 10.1; Castile and León, 8.4; Cantabria, 3.6; Asturias 1,7; A Rioxa, zero. I believe that all of Spain's pediatricians go to Rioxa province, they must all go there, because for other communities it gives the feeling that they do not emigrate, given the figures of the Spanish Association of Primary Care Pediatrics. At least we managed to get Mr. Torrado to start the other day and today saying it was a national problem, we've reached the point where it's a national problem. He fell off the horse or — he might be too — the elections were not yet called, and the minister had something to say on this subject. The council in August asked for the accreditation of six pediatrics for this year, for this year's summons, and it continues to demand those six for next year's call. What happens is that it makes the feeling that on the part of the minister there wasn't much interest in believing these squares, and perhaps it's the punishment for the only autonomous community that has most of the People's Party throughout Spain. Look: in the parallel commission or phantom commission that mounted opposition groups a pediatrician appeared. What didn't you hear about what that pediatrician said? He compared a pediatrician, Dr. Maria Encina Gallego, and opposed the figure of the pediatrician in the area, but also of the travelling pediatricians. Read or teletype of Europe Press: "The travelling squares are political squares, to satisfy the mayors of each town, because it gives votes, but it is not effective. Bet by supra-municipal assistance units that group small quotas and give patients and their families care continuity, even if it is necessary to move 20 minutes. For this doctor, in the current situation of lack of specialists the solution would be to redistribute pediatricians so that all children have a reference specialist to whom they can go. "Let all children have a pediatrician, perhaps not so close but if accessible," said the optional, for whom families move if they are happy with their pediatrician, provided time is within a reasonable range. Similarly, it considers that the quotas of 200 children do not make sense. Galicia has called attention to the enormous differences in quota in Galicia and has claimed that it does not exceed 1,000 children per professional. On the other hand, it has referred to the current care overload, resulting from the excessive accessibility of the system and oversaturation, sometimes due to minor problems, so it has urged awareness-raising and patient education campaigns." I don't think that any spokesman of the opposition groups, when she received the mothers, would dare tell them this. Because what the mothers are asking for is a pediatrician in every locality, this is not the expert who participated in the Commission. This position of professionals and scientific societies has not been taken over by the Health Council. If sued by professionals, she wasn't hired by the Health Council. The new contract — say what they say, only exists in the Basque Country and Galicia — will facilitate the fixing of paediatric residents and the possible return of some who are outside, including in Portugal. With regard to the points of the motion, we actually agree with the first point of the motion, but the axillization of accreditation depends on the ministry, we cannot urge the Council of Galicia. The resources of the health centres for pediatric training are the current professionals, who form residents. I don't know, I don't understand what this point means. I also don't know what the squares of the Faculty of Medicine refer to in relation to the specialized training. I don't understand. I think MIR training has little to do with the Faculty of Medicine. As regards the working conditions of the Special Recruitment Plan, the Council has approved the new continuity contract, convened public job offers and signed the Stabilization Plan. The Council's working group is in contact with representatives of the Galician Pediatrics professionals, moving forward solutions to the problems it presents today due to the shortage of professionals. I think the Socialist Party has to take the banner and go protesting at the Ministry's door. Because that expert who came to speak to the Health Research Committee right now is a member of the Ministry's Advisory Council and has not appointed it by the People's Party. And by the way, they can take advantage of asking that the Cohesion Fund, which was 3.8 million with the People's Party, and the Socialist Party claimed that out of 100, in the failed budgets of the year 2019 is again 3.8 million and not multiplied by 33. And you can also ask... in the agenda of socialist change, the most forgotten part of that agenda of change, ladies and gentlemen, was Spanish public health. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u133	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Motion author group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u134	Thank you, President. It won't be to improve health, I know you don't consider it, but to universalize health and start reversing the poaching itself is a lot better than health and it's being made by the Socialist Government. [[Applause]] By the way, he very vehemently quoted Mr. Núñez Centeno's data, but he did something surprising, wrong and quoted those from all over Spain. I'll quote you from Galicia. Squares offered, specialties in health centers, 2012, 231; 2018, 230. It's just that he quoted the whole increase, you know what happens, that when he increases the global but in Galicia he decreases, it's that everyone else is pretty smart and governments are increasing it. Not here! [[Applause]] But you don't think I'm cheating on her, and I'm not quoting from family and community medicine. [[Applause]] Don't worry, I also quote them: 2012, 117 accredited squares; 2018, 110. Less! [[Murmurs.]] You see, you see, in Family and Community Medicine -- that you came here to talk about that too -- there was a number problem. All squares were covered because there were never any vacancies. There's a number problem, the squares are covered, government decision?, lower accreditations. Great! That's about the supply law and the demand is great. If everyone wants something, we lower the offer and demand is more expensive. Do you know what the problem is? That this isn't a market, that's health; that's the problem! There's a number problem in Pediatrics, late accreditations are applied for and an impossible summons are called for. By the way, the counsellor already recognized that the summons were not of squares, it was of accreditation, you were wrong, but they didn't grow. Do you know what would happen if you wanted to increase the Paediatric Squares? They'd have increased them! Do you know how many were summoned last year? Twenty. What about the previous one? Twenty. What about the previous one? Twenty. So you didn't move your finger! He quoted here the squares of all Spain, of course they increase! Because autonomous communities that, even with the problem of staff, try to solve it, increase their squares to avoid the problem that Galicia now has above others, which is that it has a population pyramid in healthcare professionals who are starting to retire now, that there will be a much more serious problem than there is now but that it has not been prepared to solve or at least to mitigate it, that is the problem! By the way, you quoted me. I don't know what's wrong with the squares. I checked it out again and there's nothing of the USC squares in the motion. You don't agree to support something that says about the squares, but it's not in the motion. I know they don't want to support the motion, but at least give arguments about things that are on the motion, it won't be. I know you're okay with point one, you know what's going on? — I knew they would agree — that point 1 is the third time the vote is put here. And you know what happened to the other two? That they voted against it. They agree but voted against. That's too bad! Even if we vote on points they want to repent and vote in favour now. And finally, on the question of pediatrics, let me make a point. Pediatrics is a problem of mothers and parents, it's a problem of parents too! There's no problem with mothers only with pediatrics, it's about mothers and parents. [[Applause]] Let me point out: if we believe in a pediatrician recruitment plan, we believe that we have to coordinate with the ministry in order to speed up accreditation, that something has to do with counseling -- here the advisor acknowledged it. We do believe that we must demand the ministry that enables more squares once they are accredited. If we believe in those solutions. We believe in the solutions of pediatrics, you're finally going to vote against everything and have a problem again.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u135	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u136	They've been like this for ten years and they've got the health they have. Rectify, that's the best you can do to see if we can solve it all. And if the advisor doesn't let them rectify, let's all agree to change the advisor, which is the best we can do. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u137	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Before we move on to the motions vote, we greet the fifth and sixth primary students of the Milladoiro Center in Malpica, as well as the teachers who accompany them. Welcome to Parliament. And now yes, we're going to vote. Close the doors, please. We started by voting for the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego on the initiative of Ms. María Montserrat Prado Cores. Vote of the G.P. motion of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the actions to be carried out by the German Government in relation to the state of public health in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u138	We now vote on the motion from the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia on the initiative of Mr Julio Torrado Quintela. G.P. Motion vote. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the situation of the pediatric service in the Greek health system. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected. Agenda development modification
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u139	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. Before moving to point 4, which is non-law propositions, I'm going to comment on a change in the order of the day I submit to your consideration. Since you have a problem with the sea counselor, it is proposed that the question that appears at last in the question box be raised tomorrow at the last hour of the morning. No drawback? Okay, thank you very much. [[Assentment.]] So tomorrow morning, at the last hour of the morning, we'll ask that question. And now we're discussing non-law proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Flora Maria Miranda Pena and da Paula Quinteiro Araújo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece for women's health care with a gender perspective
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u140	There are amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and to the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u141	To formulate this non-law proposal, Mrs Miranda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u142	I wanted to greet the children and girls of Milladoiro, but I see they're already marching. Thank you, Mr. President. It's March 8th, and we want to talk today and always about gender inequality in health as well. Now that Oscar also carries the documentary on the stigma of women's menstruation in India, we want to make an ethical and also political commitment to women's health. Health is a prime facet in people's lives, and it doesn't go far from the social context. It's assumed that the most health-related factor in people's health is not the health system, it's the social determinants; and in women these circumstances are clearly more painful than in men. Why? Well, because we live in a patriarchal society in which inequality fills everything. Economic inequality, labour, wage gap, precariousness, inequality of care, loss of opportunities and macho violence. In this context, women's health leaves at a disadvantage. Next to this, there is the culture of women, that is, the cultural construction that marks our attitude toward ourselves as well. But besides, the approach to health, disease, is a completely androcentric nesgo. Women live more but in worse conditions than men. We have a worse self-perception of health, we have greater morbidity, we have more prescription drugs and we suffer more from both the below and the overdiagnosis, or, sometimes, an unaccurate diagnosis. There are dynamics that question our stories of discomfort, and this induces a paternalism that infantilizes us and minimizes our autonomy. Science is built on the elements of patriarchy. Diseases are studied based on the typical way in which men are presented. We talk about the symptoms in women as atypical when they don't fit the standard gold. I'll always remind a woman I listened to at the Road CAP, who came with an infarction and I — feminist medicine — was suspecting that she had a anxiety crisis until they recompiled the situation. The patriarchate determines how we are treated, limits our autonomy to making decisions about our bodies, about our drugs, about the children we decided to have, or not to have — a bad thing that weighs on Casado. We suffer over and below diagnoses by gender nesso in mental illnesses and also in somatics — if they can be broken up — even in prevention. It's being overmedicated for those who are most ill, i.e. women. Situations that induce life-threatening distress, lack of money, overload of care, loss of opportunity, or episodes of direct violence move to the health system in the form of various symptoms; and many cases unfortunately end up being treated with drugs. The World Health Organization, in one of its publications, links certain women's processes with situations of direct or indirect violence, beyond the physical injuries that can cause strokes. This is because of the high psychological impact that violence has on us. We need to investigate with a gender perspective and reflect on the need to find more empowering and less pharmacological solutions, because more feminism is also needed in health. The diseases that affect women exclusively or mostly are forgotten. In fact, few women have known in history sick beyond the eyes of the Princess of Eboli, the bipolar disorder of Virgin Wolf, or the fractures of Frida Kahlo. Some diseases in women are invisibly affected, undervalued, invested less, diagnosed late. That's why we need to talk about pathologies such as fibromyalxia, such as multiple chemical hypersensitivity syndrome or endometriosis. In 2015, a non-law proposal was unanimously adopted in this House to improve the attention to endometriosis, but today we do not know how to implement this agreement. We talk to women who suffer and affect the need to create multidisciplinary units and publicly finance research. At this moment, they only have specific consultations in Vigo, Ourense and Coruña; it doesn't seem too advanced. We women suffer from systematic and systemic violence: the machist, the institutional, the derivative of an unequal distribution and with little ethics of care and also obstetrics. Obstetric violence, of which we were only talking about before, prevents us from being women of our birth, childish and restricts our decisions. With regard to direct male violence, greater awareness of health personnel is needed in their detection, management and escort, as well as in their commitment to their complaint at the moment when it is less detrimental to women. Another area of inequality occurs when we assume contraception without the necessary co-responsibility of boys, men or boys. Or when we face in our own body an interruption of an unwanted pregnancy, an abortion. In this respect, we also want to denounce another institutional violence, when they refer us to other communities to abort, or even when women between 16 and 18 years of age are challenged to make this decision, when they would be perfectly free and able to decide in other areas of health. Public policies on contraception and information on sexually transmitted infections in young women are not sufficient either. We want free, informed, capable, autonomous and empowered teenagers. We women suffer more poverty and exclusion, because there is a really discriminatory factor in access to resources, which is to be women. And if we talk about migrant women, more reason, and if we don't, we consult the annual medical reports of the world, and their statistics on health exclusion. Women also pay with our own physical, emotional, psychological and social integrity the prices of unequal care. How many women have given up their vital project for taking care of! What are we paying you for or how was this reflected in your global health? I'd recommend that you go to a primary care consultation and you'll be able to see it. We must build a more equal way of addressing women's health, their empowerment, their autonomy to be more equal, freer, healthier and happier. For all this, we bring this non-law proposition, because we want health professionals to be trained in their gender perspective approach, including it in training plans. We want to work to eliminate inequality and the social determinants that support it. We believe that comprehensive training and awareness-raising must be promoted for the detection of male violence in the nearest areas, for example in primary health care. We believe that we should introduce the health professionals to the scarce resources of attention to masculine violence. We believe that care should be rebalanced and sexual and reproductive rights should be guaranteed through networks of family counselling centres, youth care centres and guarantees of abortion or voluntary termination of pregnancy in public hospitals and without referrals to other communities. We accept and include the two amendments, the BNG and the Socialist Party, to assess the degree of compliance with the Comprehensive Women's Health Care Plan, the technical guides, to draft a new plan even and to devote a session in the 5th Commission to strategic lines. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u143	Thank you very much, Mrs. Miranda. You have the floor by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u144	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. We are going to support this initiative, which, as it was now explained, we have tabled an amendment to add to it, an amendment to add to it, to introduce a question which for us came in some way also to involve the battery of proposals presented in this case by the proposed group, the Group of En Marea. We finally did it as an addition, as an additional point, but somehow it would put that question on the table that goes through precisely the whole initiative, which is the need to address the health care that has to do with women in an integral way, in a way that covers all aspects of women's life and that also has that perspective of gender in the analysis of our own public health system in our country. That's why we haven't just realized that we need to bring to this House the need for the first plan, which was prepared and approved in 2007 by a government of seven heads, as everybody knows, that government bipartisan, which approved this first comprehensive care plan for women's health; which was not evaluated, which was not updated, despite the fact that many performances, the many programs that incorporated in its drafting — it consists of more than 200 pages — foresees a chronology up to 2010. From that moment on it had to be initiated not the continuous follow-up, but the evaluation of the results obtained, not only of the application of the plan itself, but of all those technical guides that accompanied it for the approach with a health perspective in our country and, above all, those issues that directly address women's health. In 2010 — I dived myself into this House's hemerothecary — already the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group was asking the Health Council, providing that it was about to complete this I Women's Comprehensive Health Care Plan, whether it was developing an evaluation process and, above all, whether it was already working on drafting or drawing up the second plan. I read the answer, it's a phrase, literally. Literally, it's a phrase: "We are in the process of revising and updating the guides developed for implementation in different areas." Then you can continue to analyze the successive questions that the various opposition groups, throughout the latest legislation, have presented in this House, precisely demanding that this plan be evaluated, that a new plan be drafted, and in 2018 and 2019 the answer is the same: that they are reviewing and updating the different guides. I think that's a pretty descriptive sample of which is the most absolute dissipation and the hypocrisy with which it acts every time it arrives on March 8th. Here everyone comes with the tie, everyone comes with the tie, but the rest of the year, the remaining 364 days, which is when you have to work, which is when you have to change and put on the measures that are necessary to change things, to change the real state of things, to fight this permanent, systematic, systematic violence, is a system of social domination imposed on women secularly, almost millennially, nothing is done at all. It acts in such a very hypocritical way that it turns out to be absolutely tired, and there's no need to take a look at Sergas's own website to see that there's no will or intention to develop what we collect as an addition amendment, which is to draw up that 2nd comprehensive care plan for women's health. [[Applause]] We could use more examples. Recently, even yesterday, the Querendo Association, which brings together women who have endometriosis in our country, publicly breaks out a communiqué, a disease that affects women only and uniquely, ends a press release talking about the lack of professionals — that is generally, we have just seen in the debate of motions — the lack of specific consultations at Santiago Hospital and Lugo Hospital; the lack of a multidisciplinary team that cares about all these women, more than 30,000 women who have endometriosis in our country, or who are able to express what was being said just before, these absolutely unacceptable waiting lists for these gynecology consultations that we must also always be very present that one of the main problems in the care of this kind of disease that reaches only and exclusively...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u145	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u146	...—end—, to women, one of the main problems is the delay with which these diseases are diagnosed. Here were agreements in April 2015 that remain unfulfilled, and there are four years. I insist, we're going to support this initiative, but I think we've already begun to break the limit of collective patience, and what we're not going to see as year after year...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u147	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u148	...everybody says it's too high on these things, but then, who has the ability to carry forward...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u149	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u150	...politicians that change reality, don't even have the will to do it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u151	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u152	Thank you, President. From our group, no matter what happens with the amendment, although it has already been explained that it will be accepted, but, regardless of that, we will support the initiative. We have presented in this same legislation some initiative on a very similar line. So we fully agree with the idea that was put here, from the En Marea Group, and with the explanatory statement that was made here. It seems appropriate because the reality is that this initiative sets out two plans for debate. One, which has a marked nature of care and the need to be aware that there is still a gender problem in health care; and the other, which is a general cultural issue, which also affects health planning and policies. Health is absolutely androcentric. It's clear and clearly thought of men for men. It's easier to be cared for if you're a man than if you're a woman, because you're more thought to men. So standard patterns, up to not much, were only men, and still today they're still being on some issues, so it's necessary to overcome this situation. In an androcentric sector, which is accompanied by policies that are clearly unaware of the reality that we have, serious things happen. By setting examples, women's average waiting times exceed 13% of men's average waiting times. It's not natural, it's not insignificant from a statistical point of view, it's notorious, it's more difficult for women than men. We are unjustly privileged in this land, as in others. There's a problem of consciousness too. There are issues in which we have been trying to move forward and in which much has been advanced, but still not enough, as some statements show, about issues that affect particularly issues in which there is a notorious difference in gender, it is obvious, and biological. In Galicia today it was still systematically violating the law of voluntary termination of pregnancy, it continued to fail. And there's no other explanation than assuming it's not done because those who have to apply it don't share it ideologically. And this is notoriously affecting a gender gap, especially because there are policies — policies in terms of conceptual, non-personal, political and political terms, if they were in personal terms — that do not assume gender equality, between people and between anything living in society, because there is no right to differentiate according to things that do not allow to differentiate. And today there are issues that affect women especially and that are worse treated because they affect women; because there is awareness of superiority in health policies as well. Let me say this: Paul Casado's statements are sick, sick! You don't have to teach anyone anything about yourself, and at least they're going to teach a woman that's what's in it. You're sick! And I'm also convinced that in the People's Party in Galicia there are a lot of people who feel exactly the same. You're sick! By contributing in a way or by trying to put some data that should lead us to the reflection that there is a reality that we often fail to perceive, 2/3 of the people who present to the MIR exam are women, 2/3. In the first 10 -- we could choose the first 100, the first 250, but the first 10 -- by the way, a lot of congratulations to the University of Santiago who has formed number one this year, and it's a achievement of everyone. Of the first ten, this year 3 are women. Usually they never get to 50%, just in a previous call, I don't know if in 2014 or 2013, they're over 50%, but they don't usually get to it. In recent years there are many more women, it is growing, besides, the number of women who examine themselves and who prepare the MIR, more than men, however, do not arrive. Nursing, notoriously more women in training; and 100 percent of the top ten, if I don't miss this year's data, they're women. There's a cultural, conceptual question behind the fact of formation in one area or another. There are still roles that predominate male training in medicine and female nursing. And he's not a volunteer of anyone, but it's a reality, they still exist; so we must contribute culturally to that. There is a social trend and there is, and as there is, we must fight it. We can't assume that there are realities that are already out there. There are these realities and there is social tolerance against gender differentiation and against the concept of male superiority with respect to women also in the health system. So in the care plan we must understand that women are inferior and culturally...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u153	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u154	...even more. So when combined, we have a serious problem that we must contribute to solving. In that sense, we will always be in this defense. We will contribute, as far as possible, to the adoption of parliamentary initiatives, and from governments they always count on our collaboration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado Quintela. The People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia has the floor to Mrs. Amigo Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u156	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. Health is not only the absence of diseases, but the existence of physical and psychological well-being that allows people to enjoy life. Abuse has a serious impact on the health of those who suffer it, and in this sense, we can say that ill-treatment seriously affects health and that gender-based violence is little less than the greatest threat to women's health. Mrs. Miranda, you are basing almost the entire exhibition of your initiative on health and gender reports from 2006 and 2008. So society and public health have evolved a lot since then, and they're more and less, fortunately, responding to the description you make in your text. Since then, there have been several documents in force that did not exist before. The entire National Health System has the Guide to Clinical Practice of Pregnancy and Postpartum Care, 2014, with funds from the Ministry of Health, Government of the People's Party. The Women's Guide to Endometriosis, also from 2014, again with a Government of the People's Party. Sergas also has an intervention procedure for women in situations of gender-based violence for the Sergas professionals and an information guide for the victims about the resources they have. These two documents were edited during the previous legislation; that is, with a government in Galicia of the People's Party. In Sergas, there are also technical guides to the Comprehensive Women's Health Care Plan, clinical protocols of diseases, among them — as you have appointed in your initiative — protocols for fibromyalxia and protocols for endometriosis. Therefore, there is much progress in the specific treatment of women's problems in the health system. In addition, it was an advance led, precisely, by governments supported by the party I represent. Not only is it an attempt to get a very serious partisan audience on a very serious issue, but it remains very valuable to an initiative which, precisely by that partyist question, is part of a wrong base. It's an overarching initiative, and that's precisely why it's redundant, because the lines that point to solve the problem are lines that are already being explored by the current government. It speaks of better training, as if it had not been approved two years ago in Decree 70/2017 of 13 July, so it regulates training in equality and prevention and fights against gender violence in the service of the Administration of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, which guarantees such training to all public employees, and as if it had not just passed a health training plan to the Galician Agency of Knowledge (ACIS). All this, prevention and fight against gender-based violence and equal opportunities between men and women, are action protocols that are being done. It speaks of a better knowledge of resources for the approach of violence as if there was no action document that was before, but not an even more complete one, which is the inter-agency coordination protocol against gender-based violence, approved by the Board in 2017. In the section of medical professionals, it gives them guidelines for their coordination with social services, the Administration of Justice or the Forces and Security Bodies, which complements their point number 5. It speaks of improving awareness of women's specific problems by ignoring announcements like the fact that just four months ago, the creation of a Sergas working group to contribute to social awareness and collaborate in the design of performances. It speaks of the best training as if public programs were not approved, which, of course, comply with many of their points. And, above all, it speaks of a kind of continuous nesgo in the health system that derives from paternalism towards the attention of women's health problems. I wonder, Mrs Miranda, how it is possible that all this discrimination against women that, in your opinion, exists in the health system is mostly exercised by women. University careers related to health are clearly feminized, and Sergas is equally feminized. Look at the data, Mrs. Miranda. I recommend that you read the Equality Plan, which has just been approved in Sergas, not only to check that Sergas is a body committed to equality, but because he can also take a look at some data. Look, 55% of doctors are women, 61% of emergency doctors, 75% of pediatricians, 90% of nurses. Do you hold that it's a female staff that infantilizes and invisibilitys women? Do you believe or think that any optional health services will treat breast cancer or prostate cancer differently? Personally, that never happened to me. For all this, Mrs. Miranda, although we do not share at all her diagnosis, there is no other remedy left to give itself to some of the points of her initiative, because they are points that, even if they come a decade later, they cannot be rejected, they have been part of the priorities of our government for many years, and they will continue to be priorities. Of course there is and will continue to be formation; of course there is and will continue to be sensitization; and of course there is and will continue to be specialized attention to the victims...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u157	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u158	...of gender-based violence. I'm done. We have a sensitive, involved and coordinated government on equality issues. What we ask is that the guard is not lowered and that it continues to improve and work, as it is demonstrating with continuous facts and actions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u159	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u160	I'm done, waiting for our vote to be accepted by points, because, on such a sensitive subject as this, from the People's Party, we've always tried to reach agreements. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u161	Thank you very much, Mrs. Friend. The author group of the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Miranda Pena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u162	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Friend, if I hadn't just been the doctor of over 800 women at a score of 1,700 people, I'd think it's all so idyllic. I wish all the health care had been resolved by issuing protocols, issuing clinical guides and issuing plans. The reality goes a lot further, I just met her. Denying the genera nesgo is primitive and insensitive. We were all stunned on the left side. Planning and management of the health system and research cannot take place from that androcentric look that you have. Women too have an androcentric look, of course! we live in this society. It is necessary to include the gender perspective cross-sectionally. Feminism is necessary again. The biological differences between women and men do not, in any case, explain the differences we have in health. It takes the management of the inequalities that exist for a comprehensive and really equal approach to health. We must also consider the phenomenon of the culture of the genesis of discomfort, and for that we must have an impact on the education of our children. The implementation of the last comprehensive health care plan for Galician women, which prompted the amendment by the opposition's two groups, defined in 2007, is totally insufficient, remains apparent. It would be necessary to evaluate your compliance and evaluate the need to update it or even make a new one. In addition, we need an ethical culture of social co-responsibility and that the Administration, with sensitivity — which we know it does not have — intervenes with rebalancing measures. We need to minimize the consequences of gender inequality that affect women's health. We must expose the inequality and patriarchy that still remains in our society; we have just had a very palpable exhibition. We have to identify it, we have to make it visible, and we have to fight it with corrective health measures as well. And if we really aspire to an equal society in general terms, we must apply the gender perspective also to health, to identify how we are sick, to know the accompanying factors, to be able to make better diagnoses, to use appropriate treatments in each case, to respect women's autonomy, to provide us with the best possible information, to distribute resources fairly, to guarantee sexual and reproductive rights, and to minimize the damage of all violence on women's health. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u163	Thank you very much, Mrs. Miranda. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Da María Luisa Pierres López, on the performances to be carried out by the Junta de Galicia in relation to the fees of the autonomous highways AG-57, Puxeiros-Val Minor, and AG-55, The Coruña-Carballo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u164	A self-amendment was introduced by the Group of the Socialists of Galicia and another amendment by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u165	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. We have today brought a non-law proposal that seeks to join and propose the same measures as the bonus of the fees on the autonomic highways of toll — the two that exist — and also on the AP-9 motorway, with a situation — I believe that we all share — manifestly improved, for not using any thicker adjective. We amend the initiative because we understand that the framework at which it was drafted was clearly surpassed by the surprising rotation which experienced the opposition of the President of Galicia at the last plenary session, in which we attended a series of demands related to the reduction of fees to take over the transfer of AP-9, approved unanimously in this Parliament on several occasions, passed by the Congress of Deputies in Madrid in December and now seems to have some other obstacle, some other contraindication, which must be cleared before taking that transfer. In our original initiative, we're talking about autonomous highways that, as we know, are the only ones in the autonomous road network of this autonomous community that have toll, AG-57, between Puisseros and Val Minor, and AG-55, between La Coruña and Carballo. They are the only ones, I insist, despite the fact that there is an already long demand in time, old therefore, of various municipalities, both in the metropolitan areas of Vigo and in Coruña, who are demanding that these fees be eliminated to decongested conventional roads and also to increase competitiveness. This is to the knowledge that there are other autonomous motorways in which the Government of Greece is paying what has been called a shadow beach, knowing that the Galician Road Act itself, Law 8/2013, already contains that provision in Article 32, in which it says that "in road deals where a fee or fee is imposed for its use, the incumbent Administration may establish compensatory measures or procedures that come to reduce or cancel" — I insist, cancel — "the direct payment by the user". So in our original proposal, what we are asking was that the Galician Parliament should urge the Galician Council to submit within six months necessary studies to release these fees from these two motorways, and in addition to immediately establish a series of bonuses that we now implement in our self-amendment, which is to be established at least a 50% discount on return trips to vehicles carrying out the return route on the same day, regardless of whether they are workable or festive. This obviously doubles the bonus that exists within the current framework of the Galician Union Convention with the concessionaire. I say double that because obviously 25% of the discount is easily deduced that it is half of the 50% that we propose in this non-law proposal. And in addition, we must refer to the statements of the Counsellor to say that we cannot release the fee for withholding funding from health or education — fundamental aspects, as it is known and no one is arguing about —. That's what we were told in Parliament's answer number 42,914. But it should be remembered in this Parliament that the tariff income of the Welsh highways, which are of the order of 14-15 million euros a year, is much less than the annual expenditure of the Galician board on advertising and advertising, which is more than 20 million euros. Therefore, one can think of reducing games that do not necessarily affect education, health care or dependence. There are other places, where there are quantities greater than what are these beaches in their entirety, where it can be cut. And he also said that the German highways are the ones that own the lowest rates. A statement contradicted by analyzing the fees they have. There is a stretch of the motorways of Galicia, like, for example, between Baiona and La Ramallosa, or between La Ramallosa and Nigrán, or between Baiona and Nigrán, where the cost per kilometer exceeds 20 cents, which is higher than any of the AP-9 sections, including Rande Bridge in this case. And it's quite, and rightly speaking, of the high profitability — not to say profitable scandal — of the AP-9 dealership. It is true that their benefits are scandalous. But it would also be useful to make a very simple account to realize that the 31% benefit is the same as the concessionaire from Galician highways, 31% in both cases. In the case of AP-9, we're talking about having a profit of EUR 44 million on incomes of 140, 31%, and, in the case of highways in Greece, 4 million and a half over 14 million and a half. So — I insist — the percentage is the same in both cases. By going to the second part of our self-amendment, the one related to AP-9, we ask that the same reduction — I insist, the same reduction — be established for the freeways competition of the Galician Union; that is, 50% discount on return trips to vehicles carrying out the journey back and forth on the same day, both on working days and holidays. This also goes beyond the frame, not the current one — that AP-9 does not have this frame or far away — but rather what is set for the Welsh highways. And we also asked the Government of the State to take on its budgets, in the multi-annual way it is determined — not to say in this proposal that it is paid in three years or in five or seven years, but that it is determined how it is done — that the AP-9 capacity expansion works are financed, thus avoiding the cumulative annual rise of 1% we all know; that I will try to explain, although I am going very well for time, that it also has a lot to see, not to say that it has everything to do with, with the protocol signed by Minister Ana Pastor in 2012, in which not only it has been corrected but, as I will read — if it gives me time — that it has improved the condition of granting the AP-9 motorway. I would like to remind the House that this parliamentary group maintains with regard to this identical position which it has already held in the middle of May 9, 2017, that is, there is a lot more than a year and a half ago, in which we proposed in point 2 that the AP-9 capacity expansion works referred to in the protocol signed in 2012 should be taken into account, thus avoiding the annual cumulative 1% rise. I mean, it's identical writing. This non-law proposal has not been adopted in this Parliament. And I also have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that you only voted in favour of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, because the People's Party opposed itself, because then, of course, Mr Rajoy was ruling in Madrid — it seems now that we can claim to the Government of the State that assumes these works — but it is also true that both the Nationalist Block Galego and In Marea abstained from this proposal. And so we've come to see what happens to the current rates of AP-9. And here the original sin is permanently, or almost permanently — to see that I can also have a certain capacity for self-criticism—, practically entirely in the People's Party; since, firstly, we all know who extended the concession of this motorway until 2048; we all know who suppressed the reduction of the rates of 7%, work and grace of Mr Montoro as Minister of the Kingdom of Spain—the Government of Spain, forgiveness—in the year 2012 by a real decree; and who rose the VAT from 18% to 21%. Who increased the 2011 convention by 1%, that's right, it was a socialist government, so of course. But who, in 2012, reviewed that agreement and improved it by introducing clauses that never harm the dealership but rather benefit it? And now, all of a sudden, the People's Party discovers the little letter of the 2012 Ana Pastor convention. He saw them all of a sudden. Ladies and gentlemen, I will allow myself to read what Royal Decree 104 of the year 2013, signed by Minister Ana Pastor. You have it in the State Gazette of February 12, 2013. Say: "For the restoration of economic and financial balance, the Minister of Development, together with Audasa, before October 2016 will calculate the joint balance resulting from the implementation of the corresponding compensation system." And he goes on to say: "In order to determine whether the concessionary society is economically and financially balanced in its entirety, it will be established that the resulting joint balance is zero before the end of the concessional period." It adds: "It will approve an extraordinary update of tariffs which ensures that before the end of the concessional period the joint balance resulting from the compensation is zero". That is, if the company in some theoretical scenario loses money in the concession, the government could authorize an extraordinary increase in fees. Who signed this agreement? Ana Pastor. Who ruled the Government of Spain at that time? Mariano Rajoy. Then let everyone bear their responsibility. I trust we can reach a unanimous agreement. I insist — our spokesman said this morning defending the transfer of traffic — that we are not going against a government of any political sign, because we do not know who will rule after the general election of April 28. What we're convinced of is that this is good for Galicia, it's good for this autonomous community's own agenda and that we should therefore go beyond short political practice and ask the Government of the State to assume these works as a whole. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u167	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs. Torregrosa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u168	Good afternoon, gentlemen. Our group will support this PSdEG initiative because we are against the establishment of strategic communication fees for the social and economic development of our country. Any action in that sense seems logically positive, though not enough. We have been paying fees for such a long time that we sometimes forget the anomaly that involves the existence of highways operated by private companies, i.e. of trams privatized in the network of roads operated by large groups of the banking lobby and constructor that turn into a private business what should be a public road transport infrastructure. However, situations such as business buying and selling operations or rescue by the public of broken private motorways remind us that the highways of toll are privatising anomalies of the same type as schools and private hospitals arranged with the public. Because it's public-owned infrastructure that is privatized through a concession, private business exploiting public services. Because mobility is a right more than citizenship that the State has an obligation to provide. We must end the speculation of public services because it attacks the interests of citizenship, because it involves the use of the Administration for the private benefit and goes against the country's own economic development. What is beneficial for citizenship is to have channels of communication that dynamic social and economic development and not that these ways are used to dynamize the economic benefits of investment groups, which are getting indecent benefits from the management of very simple infrastructures to manage from the administration. And they make workers, transporters and citizens generally get hurt, and they have to choose between paying abusive fees or using conventional pathways by losing competitiveness, quality of life, saturing out of traffic conventional roads that cross the different villages of the country and exposing themselves more to road violence. These months, in which the debate on the fees is at the centre, it is necessary to be rigorous and look for the best formulas to be able to count on the best road network possible for our development without condemning the co-operators to citizenship, without the social majority being those who face the costs again on that maximum neoliberal goal of socialization of losses and privatization of profits. On the other hand, we must also address the other important issue when we talk about infrastructures, which is road sinality and the role played by high-capacity pathways. In Galicia they jumped all the alarms about sinlessness and mortality on the road network. With the arrival of Feijóo to Junta, there is a trend towards a decade of continued decline in sinequality and mortality, with 2011 breaking that trend, increasing the number of sinequalities by 40% at present. And here are a lot of questions to analyze. One of the reasons why the Galician road network is not safe has to do with many main routes that pass through highly populated areas, with very high vehicle intensity averages. In this sense, the manuals of the Directorate-General for Traffic go. And it does have to do with the issue of using fast roads, because if we have free buses, people don't take roads, which are much more dangerous. And I continue. On that path, the Welsh highways have much to contribute, so facilitating their use also favors the reduction of paternality. And, finally, we added an amendment to add that urges the Galician Union to develop a study that determines the costs and benefits of recovering all of the Welsh highways to the public, to be able to put them to the service of the people and to be no longer at the service of the private benefit. We ask only one study, which is the least if you're interested in making the best decisions for citizenship, because with the fees you're paying for Greek citizenship they're getting very rich by a few. These days we know the report of Fômento, which says that, to complete the concession of AP-9 until 2048, thanks to Aznar's gift, the Greeks have paid ten times the highway. And it's obvious that this is a bad business for Galicia, so at least we're working on the studies. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u169	Thank you, Mrs. Torregrosa. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u170	Good afternoon. We talked a lot in this gallery -- and most of all we would have to talk about the state highways, the AP-9, and also the AP-53. We're talking less of this, though maybe we should talk more. As far as AP-9 is concerned, one day like today, we have to talk again about the scam of the failed transfer, which has its leaders in governments and state parties who have demonstrated that they are not for work. And maybe in this they also have to see the stock movements that we're seeing in recent times. It seems you can't play AP-9 because there's very big interests there. And we also know that the battle for transfer will be a long battle. We also talk a lot about the abusive increase in the rates, which brings causes of multiple types, but, among them, the agreements. It looks like you're now discussing who's most to blame for the increase in the rates, whether the Ana Pastor's agreement or the White Jose convention. They both have responsibility and guilt in these abusive increases that we are suffering year after year — more than 40% in recent years. We're also talking about the need for reduced rates and subsidies. The BNG brought here a proposal in the full past that did not go forward because it was not supported by either the People's Party or the Socialist Party. And we proposed an overall discount of 30%, which is the same one that was approved for the rescued highways in Madrid. Of course, we think that this general discount should also be accompanied by bonuses for regular use and for various reasons. And, of course, we do not agree with that ridiculous proposal made by the Galician Board, its Infrastructure Advisor, which proposes a discount, a bonus, 20%, because that already exists. There's already a 25% bonus on the return trip with tele-paid on the same day, that's not new. And we also want to remember today, and to remind the central government, of the commitment you have to fulfill to the suppression of the payoff of Roundola, that for this there was last Saturday a mass demonstration of the people of Chapel, of the people of Teis, of the people of Roundola and of Vigo against this abuse. We must, of course, also talk about autonomous highways — by the way, bad calls many times fast lanes or corridors. They're high-capacity tracks. And we see that there are comarcas in the country, namely Vigo-Valminor and La Coruña-Carballo-Berginginos, which still have highways of toll of autonomic title that are suffering discrimination, injustice, with respect to other districts in the country where there are also highways of these characteristics that have no toll. We're talking, for example, about the Morrazo, the Salnes, the Barbarian or the highway that connects Santiago to Brión. The reality is that these comarcas suffer discrimination because they have a barrier, a barrier to mobility, connectivity and the competitiveness of companies as well. It's not fair, it's a barrier to economic development and equity, which is detrimental, above all, to people with less resources, which is a high cost for transport companies, for workers and workers, for travel to jobs and public equipment. And in addition, it has a very negative effect on conventional road mobility, increasing traffic, increasing road insecurity and the negative impact it has on the quality of life of people living around those roads, in crossings, in centres of population. They are very inhabited areas that bear traffic with all the dangers, the disturbances and the risks that this entails. And also, of course, we have to talk about the millionaire profits of the dealership, of the Itinere group, which is the same dealership as the AP-9 and also the AP-53. The German Government has the possibility of eliminating these fees, it can do it. The BNG, of course, has defended it on other occasions, is in favour of this study to eliminate the fees on both the AP-9 and the Greek highways. And we also propose general discounts and bonuses on all those highways. It seems to us that it is an act of justice for people living in these regions and that it is a first step towards achieving the ultimate goal, which is the transfer, the management of Galicia and the elimination of abusive sins. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u171	Thank you, Mr Bará. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u172	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. The Galician Union, as the holder of the motorways tollage The Coruña-Carballo and Puxeiros-Valminor, has already activated in 2010 tariff reductions for usual users for the first time in the history of autonomy — and already with economic crisis and low income, with smaller budgets —. When the Bipartite ruled, which were times, in addition, much bigger budgets, because there was no discount. I mean, this government is the first thing that makes that kind of discount. It has therefore set a 25% discount on the journey back in the day, the same as we demand for AP-9 and AP-53. I mean, we didn't ask for anything else in Madrid that we weren't already doing in Galicia. In 2018 more than 100,000 trips benefited from this bonus, 100,000. In addition to these discounts, for recurrent itineraries it is planned to be implemented this year 2019 of new bonuses that favor the night use of these motorways. It would consist of establishing, from July 2019, a 50% bonus applicable every day of the week to all vehicles that travel at night, and for all vehicles, not only carriers. And as for the possible liberalisation of peas, there would be two formulas: either to the shadows or to the rescue. In both cases against the budgets; so in the end, Mrs. En Marea, we pay them all, we have cars or not, we pay the user, we have cars or not, because we pay them with the budgets of all the Greeks. [[Murmurs.]] And I am inspired by this, Mr. Álvarez, that in the 2020 budgets there is a real amendment, and with real figures, from where it takes money; not with those it handles, which are not true, are advertising. It also says that the Union spends a great deal of money every year on the payment of shady fees. But, of course, this has to be justified and it has to tell us why. Because these are commitments that you have left to pay, duty, the two-party government. Those are the mortgages we're paying now. And leave us less freedom to do other infrastructures or to make other kinds of discounts. Look, all those debts that you've left are EUR 3,000 million in concession mortgages and $270 million in works made and to pay for what's coming. Those are the debts that you have left and that we have to pay now. That's why you pay so much in taxes, because when you were ruling, you would leave it to your duty. Now this government has made over 200 miles of high-capacity tracks free of charge and paid, paid!, not to pay for what's coming. But, look, they self-implant themselves with AP-9 themes. Of course, you're an expert in reaching agreements with these concessionaires. But, look, we just got rid of an agreement, not from the Central Government, not from Madrid, an agreement that signed the Bipartite de Touriño — PSOE and BNG — that made us have to pay the Greeks nearly 400 million euros until the end of the concession to fares on a state highway. This isn't from Madrid or ministers, this is from the two-party government. You, instead of lowering the fees, have made the budgets and the money of all the Greeks pay a state highway, the fees of a state highway. And, of course, he gets to justify, he spends half the time justifying the agreement of what Mr. Blanco himself, in December 2017, recognized — he is in every way, I can give it to him afterwards — that 1% was his own thing. What you didn't explain is that it was 1% cumulative every year, that didn't explain it. He compared it to the rise of the EVI and to the rise of 1% in three years, made, not cumulative, to Pontevedra-Vigo—to turn around, to lower it. The difference is that some are twenty cumulative years, which are also to pay for some works, and the other is to rearrange the higher cost frame and distribute for three years only — and it's done — the cost of equalizing these fees and making them more equal. Just like we're asking for it now to round it up, and that's why we're asking for the firm to round it up. I think it's quite different to speak of the 1% cumulative, recognised by Mr. Blanco himself as his, which will cost us 1,400 million euros, in front of one thing which is to compensate between the most expensive tranches, which was Pontevedra-Vigo, and only three years and not cumulative. In any case, I wanted to inform you — if you don't know yet — that just this afternoon the People's Group is presenting amendments to the AP-9 Transfers Act at the Congress of Deputies, through our Member, Mr Celso Delgado, so that our position will be clear and that our position will win those who win the elections. That's where everything you said, of course, on the other day, the president of the board, and includes some that you include in your self-amendment. We are therefore not going to support this initiative. These requests are already submitted to the Congress of Deputies. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u173	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u174	Thank you again, Mr. President. Thank you, Mrs. Torregrosa, for the support of your group. And as I've already made progress, we're not going to accept the amendment, in the sense that it distorts the fundamental content of our own, and not because we don't think it deserves a quiet and specific debate about what you're proposing. Mr Bará, you have reversed the tone with Mr. Fernández Prado, in the sense that I don't know what they're going to do at the end, if they're going to vote in favour, if they're going to vote against or if they're going to abstain. It is also not clear in the morning when Mr. Fernández Prado intervened in the Proposal for a Law on Transfers on Traffic. In the end it seems that it was neither yes nor anything else. Mr. Fernández Prado, you remind me of the anecdote that told the student of a school where I taught about another teacher, or teacher, who, when students asked him a question, always began by saying, "Actually, that's not so." You say, "You're going to present our parliamentary group in the Congress of Deputies a series of amendments to the Transfers Act that include part of what you're proposing, and then we're going to vote that we don't." Let's see who understands this? Look, this is very picturesque. The question — to make it clear at once — is that I, in my first speech, assumed the part of responsibility that had an ex-minister of Socialist Development to sign that agreement. So you're systematically refusing — and we're going to have to make a buzz for Galicia ahead — is assuming that Mrs. Ana Pastor ratified that agreement. Because if the agreement was harmful, Mr. Fernández Prado, for the public interest, what I had to do was denounce that agreement. For that there is such a possibility. [[Applause]] Did I do that to Mrs. Ana Pastor? No, no, no, no. Did Mr. Rajoy's government do it? [[Applause]] Not at all. What did he do? [[Applause]] To lay down additional clauses to allow for an extraordinary rise in fees in case it was necessary for the financial and economic balance of the company to be guaranteed. What guarantees the balance to the company?, the 2011 agreement or the 2012 agreement? Do you remember how they celebrated the signing of that agreement and how Mr. Counsellor – at that time Hernández, Infrastructure Advisor – said that, thanks to Ana Pastor's determined impulse, would they be able to do the works that were signed in Mr. José Blanco's perverse agreement? Do you remember those grandloquent titles in which they celebrated with great alharacs — not around a fire, because that tribal aspect had already surpassed methanely — the signing of the convention? That's what you guys did. [[Murmurs.]] They made a thorough celebration of that agreement, and besides -- I insist -- they didn't recommit the 2011 agreement, they improved the guarantees for the company's economic and financial balance. And that has a father and a mother: Mr. Rajoy as a father and Mrs. Ana Pastor as a mother. And I'm not going to get into any more conflicts because, obviously, that's not being good with the people you live with. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u175	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Galician Union to reduce the time of issuance of the reports of the evaluation units of the Imelga, as well as on the staffing of the teams of Pontevedra and the Coruña with more professional and the creation of an exclusive team of integral evaluation units of the Imelga in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u176	There are amendments to the Group of the European People's Party and to the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u177	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u178	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. He had previously spoken of the gender perspective in health, and this initiative — although the call made by Parliament for this LNP speaks of something else, specifically the Immelga — speaks of the gender perspective in justice. And that is why on 8 March we celebrate World Women's Day with Concentrations in the Street because I would like to invite all Members and Members of the People's Parliamentary Group — and to extend it to their party — to participate on that day. And besides, they're also participating this weekend. On March 3, there is a demonstration in Lugo precisely to demand that gender equality between women and men be effective and real. And perhaps, if you were, it would be nice if you were to draw all those lessons that you always give us in equality. Justice, like health care, is mostly feminine, it's feminine in its performance, but not in its results, sometimes, so I'm going to explain. The only ones who can judge, who can process, who can interpret the rules are the judges and the judges; and they do so in a way, which is the judgments. Judgments can be criticized, it is legitimate; even negative criticism, it is also legitimate to make negative criticisms. Even in last year's judgement of the Pamplona Provincial Court — which we know as "the judgment of La Manada" — in that sentence, a part of the facts proved say the following: "the defendants knew and took advantage of the situation of the complainant in the cubicle to which she had led her to perform various acts of a sexual nature with her". The description is impeccable, the victim himself and the forensics said there was no violence of any kind but rather intimidation—at least so said the victim. There were five unknown men for her who consciously provoked a situation that intimidated that woman, and took advantage of that situation to have sexual access to that woman without her consent. And this didn't happen in La Manada's sentence, it wasn't seen that way, but if it happened last week in a court of three magistrates of the Madrid Provincial Court who sentenced three men for sexual assault because for one night — that the magistrates themselves defined in the sentence as "sorted" — they raped an 18-year-old girl with intellectual disabilities. And those magistrates say there was no violence but environmental intimidation. When the proven facts of this last sentence are read, one sees that it matches practically the proven facts of the judgment of La Manada, but then the results are different, the errors are different. And why are there so many different legal interpretations? One unbiased gender and the other with a gender perspective. There's the key. That's why this proposal is not law, because it has a final end, and it's precisely to favor that judgements have that perspective of gender. And it has a closer end, more competence from the German Government through the work that the Institute of Legal Medicine does. And I'll try to explain it. The final objective is to promote fair, impartial, equitable judgments — like all judgments — and to be pronounced with a view to gender. And how can it be done? Well, by identifying those negative stereotypes that involve prejudice, collective and individual preconception as well as the judges and judges who work in justice about women's abilities and roles. And the truth is, in order to eradicate these negative stereotypes about women in the judicial resolutions, there are several formulas, there are several mechanisms, several measures, such as using the language which women do not consider to be objects — and there is specifically a resolution by the European Parliament that says so, of the year 2008—; in this same line is to follow the recommendations of the Commission on Modernization of Juridical Language, which says that it has to be clear, equal, non-sexist, respectful, syntactictically correct and effective drafting; the application of the Victim Statute Act, of the year 2015, which collects what is called the Istanbul Convention, of the year 2014; and the application of psychology would be experimental. And this is the closest objective of this non-law proposition. There are two trends, two jurisprudential doctrines, right now on the table. A search for the victim to be credible — the victims of macho violence — and for his testimony to be identical since the procedure began until it was over. If there are no contradictions, if it's perfect since it started until the procedure was finished, that witness -- according to this interpretation -- is real, it's true, and that's what it's worth. On the other hand, there is another doctrine which is based on experimental forensic psychology and which says that memory is not simply something mechanical that repeats itself mechanically, but that it is something that is active and reconstructs itself, and that it is also subject to the influence of third people. So, from the beginning to the end, the witness is changing. They can influence factors outside and they can make mistakes. That's why protecting that first witness is fundamental. You think of a woman who has just suffered — like these two examples — a sexual assault, who has to go to testify to the police station, who will then be explored by a doctor or a doctor, or vice versa; who will then go to the instruction court, a few days later, to tell the exact same thing again, and that "x" years later will go to court to tell the same thing again. It won't be the same version because it's practically impossible. That first witness is fundamental. And that's where the Galician Institute of Legal Medicine, which depends on the Directorate-General of Justice and is therefore framed in Vice-Presidentship and Presidential Counsellorship. It provides technical assistance to judges and prosecutors, reports on forensic medicine and, in addition, there is an intervention by psychologists in the clinical service in which evaluation units are included. This Galician Institute of Legal Medicine has its headquarters in Santiago, here in Compostela, and it has seven teams, one in each provincial capital, one in Santiago, one in Ferrol and the other in Vigo. And, for experimental forensic psychology, eradicating these negative stereotypes about women is, of course, fundamental, and it serves this first witness — as I said before — as the most true and truest thing about what happened at any time, essentially because it's the closest to what just happened and also because it prevents external influences from changing that version. And it avoids, therefore, that there is any kind of contradiction in the way that makes that witness at the end of the trial not worth it because it is contradictory to what was said earlier. Forensics and forensics issue a report and refer it to the judicial authority. And this report is the basic document to substantiate judgments that do not contain negative stereotypes about women. But for that it is necessary that these reports be issued quickly since that first witness was made, because it is the truest, and that the number of equipment is sufficient. And it's not like that. It's not like that in Pontevedra or the Coruña. So they say it themselves, the professionals who work there and the professionals who work there. And besides, although we know that the number of cases in the autonomous community is not going to justify an exclusive team dedicated to this, if at least we'd be right to study the possibility that it existed, because then the reports would be immediate and would empower that witness — which is considered the most true — to be the one used in the reports and to avoid in the judgments those negative stereotypes about women who consider that, when a woman changes the testimonial version, she's lying. And that's why we made this non-law proposition. The goal is to help these judicial resolutions contain a gender perspective, applying experimental forensic psychology. And to that end, we ask the Government to reduce the reporting time by the Immelga and, at most, be fifteen days since the woman's first witness; to provide more professionals with the Pontevedra and the Coruña teams and to be equal to those of the other teams that already exist; and to study the possibility of the creation of an exclusive team of integral evaluation units of the Immelga in Galicia. It may seem abstract or strange. It's not, because we're talking about that, when soon in the media, or without being in the media, just when we meet with judgments like that of La Manada, and — allow me to express myself — with particular "vomitive" votes like that of La Manada, we all tear off our clothes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u179	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u180	And the professionals and the professionals in the world of justice say that maybe that wouldn't happen. And I think it's necessary for something to be done. We'd like them to vote in favour. In justice more than 70 percent of the people who work are women, and of those who make decisions -- those who say sentences -- in small trials, more than 62% are women. Someday practically all of them will be women, but changing the perspective of gender and introducing it into judgments is not a matter of whether they are women or men.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u181	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u182	It is a matter for us in this Parliament to do something that is sometimes productive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u183	Thank you. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u184	Yes, indeed, justice is one of the most important issues to walk in that necessary gender perspective. And we agree that an instrument that can particularly help to avoid Machist judgments is the Immelga, precisely through those psychosocial evaluations. And, as you yourself propose in your initiative, so that justice preserves its character of public service with dignity must have decent means, it must have more personal, more budget, and we add that it also invests in infrastructures and mechanisms necessary to ensure that these psychosocial reports are done properly. Well, one of these fundamental means is the Imelga. You have already explained that it is the Institute of Legal Medicine in Galicia and the special importance it has in referring specifically to violence against women. That's why we consider the need to strengthen those units, the ones that have the greatest workload of the Immelga, related not only to family procedures and, specifically, to macho violence, but also to minors. And we don't get enough, of course, with the timely reinforcements to try to reduce that waiting list, because it's not enough. We agree with the professional demands of the Imelga staff, who have claimed, on the one hand, that staff reinforcement that you are moving to Parliament on this initiative, but also to further prevent those infrastructures that allow better attention to reduce that secondary victimization that takes place in the judicial process. And that's why we make this amendment of adding, knowing it's redundant, because it's something that's in the State Covenant, where there's commitments, but still justice does not end up providing itself with all the means needed in this field, both of rooms specific to children, children and victims, as well as of instruments that allow the recording of procedural acts and, consequently, the reduction in the need that, for example, in the case of minors, they come to judicial buildings. Even if we have produced, because of this lack of staff, the fact that we have to go to external teams to be able to do these types of assessments, so we absolutely agree on that need for more personnel. And also in the need for comarcalization of the services of the Immelga — and I think it was you who brought an initiative that the People's Party voted against — and in the crucial role of this rapid intervention in the processes of gender violence, in the processes of child sexual abuse, and above all that intervention is immediately and that this character is preserved as a first witness. Because obviously -- as you also explained -- memory is not something that gets stagnant but it's going to be lost, it's going to be rebuilt and it's influenced by the different elements that can compete later on. We therefore agree absolutely and we shall vote in favour of the non-law proposal, whether or not the amendments are accepted, which are simple additions and in which we also include this need for coordination between all bodies to protect that first witness. Because there can often be unnecessary interventions due to the lack of coordination between the various bodies involved in the judicial process. Imelga's work, both in child sexual abuse and in gender-based violence, is necessary for these assessments, both psychosocial and integral evaluation. In minors, for example, it is fundamental that witness, because often the only proof of charge is that witness of the minor or the minor. Psychological expertise in this case is fundamental. And according to that doctrine that you explained about experimental forensic psychology -- I think I said it right -- it's necessary to preserve that first witness, which also avoids, of course, greater suffering for a minor or a minor. And in cases of gender-based violence, the same; and also to avoid these post-war Machist judgments. So it's about having more means, having specific rooms, better coordination of professionals, ensuring that this first intervention can be done in conditions, it can be done quickly, and avoid that process of revitalization which obliges, sometimes by disordination, to do a series of interventions that are not necessary. We are going to vote in favour of your non-law proposal, whether or not we take into account our additions, which come to the same end, in the need for means that guarantee the preservation of that first witness in cases of gender violence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u185	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u186	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. Mrs. Vilán, I will now refer to this question of the Imelga, which is the object of your proposal. And by the way, I would like to acknowledge the excellent work the Immelga professionals do, which is fundamental to the good development of the Administration of Justice. But before then, and in terms of precisely these considerations that you've just done about the perspective of gender in the judicial field, I'm going to read something that you collect in your own initiative. He says, "We listen and we read that the judgments in general, and when they affect women to a greater extent, they are macho, androcentric and dictated by people with no gender training." Well, we believe that if, in some way, there is some bias of this kind, we have to work logically to eradicate it. But on no subject — and at least at this point — we believe that exaggeration is good. And with this kind of consideration, I think we send the victims a message of loss of confidence in the judicial system, of loss of confidence in independence, in exclusive submission to the rule of law, which must refuse the judicial action of the judges. And, therefore, we believe that the judicial system has resources to correct those dysfunctions that can be done. You yourself have just referred to a judgment of the Madrid Provincial Court, and the Supreme Court itself has applied the perspective of genre recently. And to call into question a multitude of judgments that are said every day about family, gender violence and that respond to facts and unfair circumstances affecting so many women in our country seem to us to be an exaggeration. You said we were going to teach you equality lessons. No, equality lessons we're not going to give you, but we believe that exaggeration and inventing things on such an important subject as this one is not good either. Mr. Torrado has just mentioned a moment ago in his intervention that in the MIR exams men achieve the best results, as if this were a question of gender, obviously the MIR exams are a test type of 250 questions that are anonymous, that are identified with a barcode and therefore it is not possible for the examiner to consider the condition of the gender of the person examining. I think we have to be strict and I don't think we have to make things up or take everything to exaggeration on a subject like this. [[Applause]] You, Mrs Vilán, in addition to this appreciation in your initiative, collect this, and in the operative part, you say, "The Parliament urges the Council of Galicia, with the ultimate aim of helping effectively to ensure that judicial resolutions contain gender perspectives through the application of experimental forensic psychology,..." Well, if it's wrong to question judicial independence, now this consideration, or this proposal that you make to us, comes into question the independence of the Immelga professionals, who must be subject in their performance solely to scientific considerations. And I'm telling this because it's not up to us to evaluate or determine how to evaluate the evidence or the facts in a court resolution. Nor is it up to us to determine how these tests should be prepared and how the reports and dictates of the Immelga professionals should be issued. There are obviously different methodologies in the field of forensic medical expertise. You, Mrs Vilán, referred to experimental forensic psychology, but it is not up to us to determine whether the first witness is more true than the others or whether persistence in time is an indicator of reliability. It is also not up to us to establish the protocols which should follow the interviews for the preparation of these reports. These are technical issues, Mrs Vilán, which we understand are within the framework of independence which must govern the performance of the Immelga professionals. And that's why our group, the People's Group, has tabled an amendment in which we have suppressed this leadership from the operative part of its initiative. And as far as the rest of the points are concerned, they suggest that Imelga's reports are issued within a period not exceeding fifteen days since the woman's first testimony. I'm going to read to you what the Memory of the Immelga 2017 says, the last known: "The realization of expertise obliges in most cases the recognition or consultation of subjects to be valued, in one or more successive citations, the realization of complementary evidence, documentary evaluation existing in the procedure and bibliographic research...", and then. You certainly don't miss the procedure, the functioning of forensics and the performance of forensics. And I'm sure you'll see that the time of issue of the reports of the evaluation units of the Immelga will depend on the circumstances of each case. And there will be cases where the reports can be issued in the first fifteen days and there will be others where they do not. And, therefore, to condition the work of the professionals or the complementary evidence or the evaluations they consider appropriate is, of course, what you want, conditioning the time limit for these reports. But we agree that the Immelga is provided with the necessary means to ensure that the time of issuance of the reports of the units of integral assessment of gender violence are appropriate to the activity that is being carried out. And that's why we recognize it and collect it in our amendment. With regard to the staffing of the most professional teams in Pontevedra and the Coruña, I say the same thing. The memory of the Immelga reflects that decreased the medical assessment of injuries in relation to 2016 — regarding 2017, which we know — and that increased the integral assessment of gender violence. And we also realize that forensic clinical expertise has decreased by 5% in 2017 precisely because of the decriminalization of misconduct, which affects to a very important extent the judicial processing of traffic accidents. So, the staffing of professionals should you come as you say? No, you'll have to value it in every area of the territory, in coordination with the direction of the Immelga, and determine what needs are depending on the workload and also on the population. And that's what we also collect in our amendment, which we expect you to consider. It also sets up, at the third point, the creation of an exclusive team of integral evaluation units of the Imelga in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u187	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u188	I'm done, Mr. President. It would not be consistent to centralize these units because there is already a team of integral assessment units in each sub-direction of the Imelga, and there are numerous agreements in this Parliament, both in committee and in plenary, with regard to the marketing of these valuation units. The comarcalization of the services of the Imelga, especially the forensic valuation units, we collect it even in a resolution of the debate of the state of Autonomy in a transaction that we formalize and we reach with you. For all this, we, in order to reach an agreement on such an important matter as this, hope that they will accept our amendment and we will be able to reach an agreement at this point. For our part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u189	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u190	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira said she didn't agree with that claim that they were proliferating Machist judgments. Look, we say more, it's not just that the Machist rulings proliferate, and that they're not, as you said, lust or dysfunctions, is that justice is deeply machist, the system is deeply machist. I'd say more: he's also a classicist and he'd react. All the debates we have about violence against women and their institutional response, over and over again, highlight the lack of means, the shortage of budgets, the lack of specialized training and the failures of the system, of the whole system, which, as we said, is structurally machist. The conclusion is that we are faced with a problem of uncommon dimensions for which institutions are not able to respond. In the fight against macho violence there can be no excuse, and all necessary means must be put, starting with budgets. That's why BNG insists again and again — and we will do it every time it takes — to devote 1% of the board budget to the fight against male violence. One of the critical points of prevention and fighting against violence against men is precisely what is called institutional violence. And it is also, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, institutional violence that a political leader says: "The batterer is that person who does not behave well with women." This too is macho violence. I suppose you'll have something to say about these issues. [[Applause]] And that's why it's not an exaggeration. We said and used the slogan that "Manada is the system." The system is Manada. One of the reasons — which is more than proven — is why a large part of the women who have been assaulted do not report is that those who report are going through a genuine career of obstacles, precisely the mistrust of institutions, and specifically the administration of justice. And beyond the bonds, beyond the minutes of silence, there is a need for profound changes and courageous decisions to change the system and, specifically, the judicial response, which I say is one of the bottle collars, one of the critical problems of this matter. That's why since the BNG we've been defending proposals that we understand are necessary, that are urgent, for example, that there is a unit of masculine violence in the Directorate-General of Justice. Look, this doesn't cost so much, but it would allow, for example, monitoring, monitoring and promoting compliance with the laws. We call for specialized judges in violence against women in all cities and also for comarcallization. We are asking for adequate infrastructure for the entire judicial procedure. We call for training in the area of violence against women, violence against men, for all persons, for all personnel involved in the judicial proceedings. We call for full assistance from the victims, as established by law, it's nothing extraordinary. And we ask for more means in the courts, as, on the other hand, they also ask the judges themselves. I have here statements which you made to the press by the judge of Betanzos, which exactly affects these issues. He says there is no specialization, there is no training, that he has to attend to an average of seven and eight trials, and between them he has to take care of the victims and make decisions on the march without practically support. This is reality, we need efficiency, we need agility, we need means not to take six months to issue a report, which is what's going on. And more means are needed in the Immelga, which is also evident. It's a claim I think unanimously recognized. We need more staff, more forensics and forensics. But this isn't enough. One of the keys is specific training in the field of gender-based violence that is now not by the professionals of the Immelga. And we also need, we need, forensic teams specialized in gender violence, which is not there at the moment either. Therefore, the BNG will support this non-law proposal because it seems to us that it is a step forward in all these demands that I have just exposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u191	Thank you, Mr Bará. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u192	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank you, on behalf of my group, for the support of En Marea and BNG. Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira, in fact, you respect judicial independence, you just need to remember those statements of November 19, last year, when your spokesperson in the Senate, Mr. Cosidó, literally said, "We'll be in charge of the 2nd Chamber of the Supreme Court from behind." [[Applause]] In fact, it was, they proposed to him what is today the President of Chamber 2 which is right now in the room, probably celebrating that trial of the trial. You wanted to manipulate it and, therefore, manipulate the General Council of the Judiciary and Chamber 2 of the Supreme Court — that same Chamber 2a — given that there would be a trial, which is being held right now. You, indeed, respect judicial independence. This initiative is not going to do that, and you have to read what is requested. First, at no time in my speech did I use the expression "machist opinions", at no time; in fact, what is put on the initiative—and I will read it as it is—is: "In recent times we have seen a movement of basically negative criticisms to some criminal judgments because they are not dictated with a gender perspective,"—no machista— "the Manada case is paradigmatic." "We listen and read that the judgments in general" is not that we assume, but that we hear and read, not take. "And when they affect women, to a greater extent, they are macho, androcentric, and dictated by people without training in a gender perspective." That's what you put here, but we listen and we read, we won't "control Room 2a behind", and we want to believe that this is not going to be done or that it has never been done in our democratic system. You have to read what's requested. What's asked is to help effectively to make pronouncements be given with a view to gender, not to force them to be dictated in one way or another, that's to have understood nothing. The forensic psychology is clear that it's scientific, of course it's scientific. We haven't invented anything at all. And precisely because you have the support of a political party asking for a derogation from the Gender Violence Act, you don't include yourself in the text, you exclude, you take off a pen, the reference to the gender perspective that comes in our non-law proposition. I don't know if you've spoken to Vox before to make your amendment, which, of course, we're going to refuse because it radically changes the meaning of this non-law proposition, and we don't need the Socialist Party, you don't need to talk to Vox to make your initiatives. [[Applause]] Finally, with regard to the amendment of En Marea, as we have time for tomorrow, we believe that it contributes to our proposal not of original law and we accept point 4. It is true that they need themselves, and so they say, infrastructures that are effective. And maybe we think that point 5 could be introduced to some of the other points that come into our initiative. Listen more to the professionals and professionals of the Immelga, about all those who work in Pontevedra and in the Coruña, to the direction of the Immelga...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u193	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u194	...and from there you can know that this initiative is not invented and is absolutely true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u195	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Can not get folder: %s: %s A transaction pending? Tell us something tomorrow? Okay, thanks. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos and four other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Galician Union and the demand to be made to the Central Government in respect of proposals for legalization and standardization of the practice of rental bellies or subordinated management
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u196	There is an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u197	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Rodil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u198	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all of us again. This will sound because a similar initiative has been presented and defended by the BNG in this Parliament in July 2017. The reason why we bring it back to the House, that we bring this debate back to Parliament, is that the voices that defend the regulation and legalization of renting bellies in the Spanish State and, by extension, in Galicia are also coming back to the attack. And here I wanted to stop at the first consideration that we wanted to put on the table, since BNG today. This is not a debate promoted by women from Ukraine or Russia, the United States or Thailand who are used as managers to defend their rights, but rather a debate introduced and promoted with enthusiasm and urgency by international agencies, lawyers' offices and contractors, who find difficulties — and more and more — to register children bought through the lease of a uterus. This makes it clear that behind this debate is the huge and lucrative business that involves the rental bellies at global level. It is no wonder that the debate on its regulation in the Spanish State is being reopened permanently at this time through the media and certain political parties. We live in a neoliberal context, which sacralizes individual freedom, promotes the free market in any sphere and not just about the economy, but about society itself. A market society in which to have legitimate money — or so they believe — to access goods, services, resources, to materialize wills, desires, even against the most basic collective rights. And motherhood and paternity are that, one desire, absolutely legitimate, but whose satisfaction cannot be ruled out by the logic of the market, violating collective rights. The European Parliament has already warned in 2014, in its annual report on human rights and democracy in the world, that the bellies of rent constitute a practice contrary to the human dignity of women, since our bodies, their bodies, and their reproductive functions are employed as raw materials, and urges that this practice be prohibited internationally by involving the use of the body for financial or other purposes, particularly in the case of vulnerable women in developing countries. We're talking people. Sometimes it seems not, but we're talking about people, both women who are reduced to a management body and children who are the result of the signing of a purchase contract that varies their cost between 50,000 and 240.000 euros, depending on the country. Have you ever seen a belly rental contract? Because in that absolutely dulcified and trivialized idea of what a uterus is supposed to be rented is rarely spoken of. It's not easy to find one, but it's also true that it's not impossible, among other things, because agencies and lobbying broadcast very controlled messages about these practices and their consequences. From the moment of signing the contract, women lose the possibility of adopting any kind of decision on their bodies under the terms of the contract, from feeding, lifestyle and habits to the possibility of maintaining sexual relations or not during pregnancy, of course, by the possibility or not to voluntarily interrupt their pregnancy. And I can't make up anything. I know that it may seem a dystopian, i.e., a fictitious, absolutely undesirable society, more peculiar to the society of some novelness out of Huxley's mind, but not, look, the main Spanish association for the legalization of these practices promoted a popular legislative initiative, which is accessible on the network, in which it literally says in article 5.4: "If the female manager for subrogation" — which is the leased body — "is admitted to the voluntary interruption of the pregnancy provided for in the causes of article 14 of the Organic Law 2/2010, of voluntary interruption of pregnancy and sexual and reproductive rights, he must return any amount he had received from the subrogation progenitors" — which translated into non-euphemistic language is the part he hires — "and compensates them for the damages and prejudices caused". If I go to a dealership, I buy a vehicle and the dealer doesn't give it to me, they have to compensate me. Here what's called that is altruism by compensation. To ensure that the terms of the contract are fulfilled in Ukraine, which is now the European capital of the belly rental, there are real estates in which women are monitored and watched with cameras for 24 hours a day. In addition, the agencies sell this control as a publicity claim. It sounds amazing, but it's not. Look at what one of the most important belly rental agencies in Ukraine says: "Our donors, healthy, young and very attractive — because besides renting the uterus, they are usually also egg donors — are a great pride for our clinic. Mothers of rent are under the control and guardianship of coordinators for 24 hours a day. That's why the clinic is responsible not only for the lifestyle, but also for the food and medical tests necessary for its tranquility." Yours, the people you hire. There are premium contracts that guarantee the selection of the child's sex and the possibility of electing the woman-uterine — because in addition to classism there is a steep racism: Caucasian women are preferred —, preimplantational genetic diagnosis, whether or not she will have some kind of disease in the course of her own management, or whether or not the possibility of repeating the process twice or more if the baby product possesses some kind of malformation, disability or simply does not occur the first time; repetition that is done with the same woman or with another. I bring you article 4, selection of the manager and fees, of a sort contract in California, which, I don't know, was the first country in the world to regulate this practice. "Article 4. Selection of manager and fees. The agency will help intentional parents" — again, aseptic, eufemistic language completely, to denaturalize and dehumanize all these practices — "help people who hire the selection of the future manager, which will be based on their explicit preferences. Intentioned parents will have the right to accept or reject a possible manager, whatever the cause. In the case that people who hire select a manager and this one does not start the medication cycle for 90 days since the date that people who hire hired the agency's services, then the agency reserves the right to make that manager available to other customers. This is a factory and here you don't lose a euro. From the BNG we affirm with absolute roundabout that we are in the face of a deep debate that reaches the most fundamental rights and dignity of women, treated, as they can verify, as if we were cattle. That is why we clearly reject this debate, as it is intended to limit or present through the media and by certain political forces, as if we were talking about a technique of assistance for reproduction or the guarantee of motherhood and paternity in various family models. Actually, we're talking about the satisfaction of the desire to reproduce the traditional model of a nuclear family, based on children with the same genetic burden as progenitor people, who are yours. Having biological offspring can't be conceived as a right, it's an absolutely legitimate wish, but it can never surpass that desire or particular interest in the safeguard of the common good and women's equality. It is aberrant to hear a president of the Galician Union say that the lease of uterus is linked to the structural problem of birth. ABC statements are collected. The president of the board said, "It's true that we're at the edge of ethical formulations, more ethics over the centuries will be adjusted. The ethical formulations of the 18th century are not those of the 21st century." Getting poor women from developing countries to mate to satisfy the wishes of the Middle West class is quite decimononic, ladies and gentlemen. Reduce the existence of women to reproductive capacity and become incubators is absolutely medieval. [[Applause]] Today we bring the debate back to this chamber so that the Galician Parliament will stand against the legalization, regulation and trivialization of this practice, because it constitutes a form of exploitation and mercantilization of the women's body, especially those women in the south, impoverished and vulnerable, and also so that any reform that is taking place will be aimed at dissuading and preventing this practice not only in the Spanish State, but above all, as the international feminist institutions and movement claim, at the global level. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u199	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I just heard a demonstration that as a jurist I can't let go. It just said here that justice is macho, classist and reactionary. I can only subscribe to that statement if we refer to the current Minister of Justice, and I would add: and besides it's homophobic, because a minister who talks to a judge convicted of prevarication, and with the police hoop, said he preferred courts of men and not of aunts, of aunts! That minister of justice so feminist that he sits at the Council of Ministers and Ministers, that minister who is part of that government so feminist and who said that he thought it was a good idea that prostitutes were hired to get information from politicians and businessmen. [[Applause]] That minister who looked to the other side when some colleagues were — let's say gently — playing with minors, favoring the sexual exploitation of minors. Ladies and gentlemen, if you mean that justice is that, only the Minister of Justice, but unfortunately the Minister of Justice does not represent, in that sense, all the professionals who work in justice, no judges, no magistrates, no one who works in justice in Spain. [[Applause]] The People's Parliamentary Group will not allow such a general statement to be made about the staff and the justice of this country. Well, today we are debating the same BNG proposal that brought the debate on 11 July 2017, exactly the same! Both the explanatory statement and the motion for a resolution is a copy-paste; a copy-paste that brings the Nationalist Block Galego — said Mrs Rodil — not because it is now. Home!, the truth is, it's quite opportunistic, Mrs. Rodil, that right at the time there are a significant number of Spanish families who can't leave Ukraine with their babies, Block registers the same initiative that they registered in June 2017 and that we discussed in July 2017. Do you think the People's Party will have a different position? No, look, we are characterized by coherence. [[Murmurs.]] I know it's difficult, it's difficult, it's difficult, it's difficult, but we have coherence and we present the same amendment that we tabled on his day. Certainly, this problem of the families in Ukraine that is taking place in January has occurred in August. And what did the government do? For the Government in August did the same thing he did now in February, a patch. To say, we're going to let these people who have the problem sign up, but not just one more. We're not going to admit that no baby coming from another country by subordinated management can sign up for his sonhood in Spain. It happened in August, 69 families; it happens now in January, 39 families, and we follow. We believe that there must be wider regulation than it is, because there are countries of the European Union where it is allowed. Tell me, Mrs. Rodil, what did you do here? He spoke all the time of economic exchange, that they were women in underdeveloped countries, citing the United States in the middle, I don't know. But what about the Portuguese model? Of course, I know that for you, the United States is a developing country; others have another opinion. But tell me what is your opinion of the Portuguese model? I'd like to know. Well, since there are different regulations in the same Schengen area, which we have a great permit in the United Kingdom, Portugal or Greece and an absolute ban in Holland, Germany, France, Italy, Switzerland, Austria, Finland or Spain, going through a legal indefinition in Ireland, the Czech Republic or Cyprus. Given that in Spain the Supreme Court has said one thing and the opposite; it has forbidden the registration of a child's sonship and then to allow that of another. In view of the fact that the European Court of Human Rights has said in specific cases that both Italy and France — in both cases, Labassee and Campanelli — have established it in their state of origin, both in Italy and in France — were beyond what allowed their margin of discretion, so in both cases the children's right to privacy was ignored by violating Article 8 of the Treaty. I don't know if you're a Europeanist or you don't see any other side of the Hill of Grelos, but we're a European Union, and as we're a European Union, there are these problems, and as there are these problems, we have to solve them in the European Union. In Galicia we have no competition. The General Courts have no jurisdiction to resolve these conflicts of private international law, Mrs. Rodil. We therefore want the European Parliament to manifest itself. It's not an easy question. You know that the Hague Conference takes five meetings last September, and they've scheduled another one for February, because they're not able to reach an agreement on the complexity of the matter. I don't know. It's not a matter of favor or against. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u201	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u202	We want a regulation for this matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u203	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u204	We're not going to get into the bottom of the matter. We want there to be clear regulation because right now, Mrs. Rodil, there is no regulation. And if 20 experts in The Hague are not capable of working on that report, I don't think...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u205	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u206	...the Galician Nationalist Block has the capacity to come here and tell us what they are debating in the European Union many people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u207	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u208	...with much knowledge because this exceeds many things...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u209	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u210	One more thing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u211	No, no, no, no. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u212	I'm just saying one thing: think of the best interests of the minors, those you don't mention in your initiative, in your explanatory statement or in your motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u213	Thank you, thank you. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u214	Mrs. Paula Prado knows well that I could take the papers and take them there perfectly. He left what he just said. But Mrs. Paula Prado knows well that I could take her papers and take them, I don't understand very well what that comment came from. We're going to vote... we're going to vote in favor... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u215	I did, Mrs. Vilan. I said...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u216	No, it wasn't you, president. It was after you talked. No, no, it doesn't matter, it doesn't. [[Murmurs.]] The deputy has already left who made the comment, so he does not care.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u217	Let's go to the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u218	That's right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u219	Quiet, that's it. Quiet, it's a serious matter. Quiet, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's it, that's it. It's a matter that has no transcendence. His papers were left and I told him to come get them. Nothing else. The debate is over. Please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u220	Of course, indeed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u221	Let's go to this topic, which is a serious topic, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u222	In fact, it's a serious topic, and since it's a serious topic that talks about uterus, I think it's essential today to quote someone who in his free time is a gynecologist, or seems to be, and who says, "I think it's good that women know what they're carrying inside." It's good to know that what they're taking in is an autonomous life. Mr. Married, who is his boss, the part of being -- he said so -- an absolute ignorant because they don't lead an autonomous life, they lead a dependent life; that's precisely why he's inside his mother's womb, depends on the mother's life. On the side of that and the considerations of each one, we are going to vote in favour of this initiative because we are against the bellies of rent. No surrogate motherhood, no surrogate motherhood, no similar euphemism, is to rent a woman's womb in order to create a son or daughter for other people. That's what it's all about. Biologically, at the moment, it is not possible to subrogate maternity; at the moment, at least. That's why it can't be called surrogate maternity. Legalize the bellows of rent, on the one hand, the fundamental rights of these women, their dignity and their physical and moral integrity. And, on the other hand, it also violates the rights of children or daughters, that interest greater than the child mentioned by Mrs. Prado, and so says the United Nations Committee on the Rights of Children, which violates the rights of these children. In addition, the more it harms those women who are younger, poorer, with greater economic needs, because they are the ones who will bear the burden — literally and physically — of leading that dependent life within each of them to third people. The story is full of women who did this to satisfy the desires of rotten families! The maid's story I think it sounds like somebody. The children stolen during the Franco-Francist dictatorship, I think it should sound something to us too. And the nurseries that breast-feed the sons and daughters of the ladies who were engaged in other things, I think it's just us, too. And nobody gets away with any possibility of individual choice, whether it's a woman or a man, throughout life is determined by the socioeconomic position of each one, and in this case, in the cases of renting bellows, especially. There is no right to paternity or maternity — as Mrs Rodil rightly said — and so says the European Court of Human Rights in a judgment of 24 January 2017. That sentence that Mrs. Prado referred to in the Campanelli case actually said, "There is no right to be parents. To agree to leave these children with adoptive parents could legalize the situation actually created by those who violate important rules of Italian law." That's what the European Court of Human Rights said in 2017. Because a person's desire to have a child cannot be materialized by crushing the fundamental rights of a woman and the rights of a child. It can't be that way. It can't be that way. [[Applause]] It's simple. In 2017, the Committee on Bioethics of Spain rejected the leases, and refers to the nullity of those contracts which the Supreme Court repeatedly stated in 2014 and 2015. In addition, recently, at the end of last year, the Observatory of Bioethics and Right of the University of Barcelona reiterated this rejection by the vulnerability situations it creates for these women and children. It's not an assisted reproduction technique or a form of reproductive collaboration, it's the exploitation of women who economically need that money through the use of their body by other people. We're going to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u223	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u224	Thank you, President. We too, of course, will support this initiative because we agree that this practice of renting wombs is the extreme marketing of women's bodies and also, here mentioned, of children and girls, not only women, children and girls. If you defend the best interests of the child, you'll also have to think that you're buying and selling children. In fact, this whole debate, unfortunately, has been fake for a long time in most media, because the images with which we are constantly bombarded are idyllic families, only the focus is placed on these families, futures and very happy ones, but it systematically covers the situation of the management women, who are the main affected, as mentioned here, watched, controlled, many of them having to share a space as if it were a prison. Often, when we talk about this question, it's true that reality exceeds fiction. Often, unfortunately, reality leaves us chilling images like this, in our opinion. We agree that the fundamental starting point is to defend rights and desires. Paternity and maternity are legitimate desires, but they are desires that cannot be guaranteed if they come into collision with women's fundamental rights. For us there is the fundamental debate. You can't speak abstractly. What conditions do these women have? Because despite the demagogy that has been done, speaking here about the United States, Mrs Prado knows perfectly what these women are, which countries are the great majority and, above all, what economic conditions they have. They know perfectly well how to make — in my opinion — that demagogy. It's a lie that these women work and earn a lot of money. Who is really profiting from this practice are companies, are lobbyists, who are very powerful. You just have to see an example, as were the fairs they do, as if it were a women's fair, where absolute barbarities are called. A short time ago there was a fair in Madrid, and I wonder what would happen if there was a organ sales fair. Obviously, I wouldn't be allowed. And I wonder, if this practice is illegal in our country, why do we have to endure a window, a stand, privileged for companies that are defending practices that are not legal in our country? As I say, these companies, lawyers, fertility clinics, clinics that offer the whole package, make a lot of millions. And the percentage of money that goes to the management woman and the percentage of money that goes to these companies, obviously it's aberrant. Above all, we agree that we cannot speak of freedom in a context such as the current, free market, extreme inequalities — as I said — when women who practice this practice are women with low economic resources, not to regularize the rental bellows and regulate inequality, because obviously it is to put a price on a wish that should not be the cost of the rights and bodies of people with less resources. As I say -- we insist -- we talk about women, women's bodies, but also about children and girls. And I have to say that the amendment of the People's Party and our own intervention seem intolerable to us. They seem intolerable to me, and I'll explain why. [[Interruptions.]] I don't think it's an insult to say the word intolerable. To me personally, it seems intolerable, and I explain it. How can you speak with such cynicism that you cannot legislate, that there is no competence, when President Feijóo made statements in the media talking about regulating this practice? At that moment he didn't worry at all to say his opinions. They were going to debate him in the party at his congress. This debate, in fact, one of the first organizations that put it on the table, besides companies, was the People's Party, and not the People's Party of Murcia, was the Andalusian People's Party and the People's Party of Galicia, with Feijóo and Tellado. The hemerotheque is there to check. Then if they had an opinion. Perhaps he had to intervene here, Feijóo and say he thinks of this proposal not as a law. Don't say that you can't talk about this because it's a very complex matter and that you have to study, when to say it in the media they didn't have any problems at all and it didn't seem to them this was a very complex situation; then it was very simple. So, I don't think it makes much sense to come up with an argument that for the only thing it serves is to kick you forward; to say that you can't do anything at all because we can't position ourselves. By the way, in this House we often have debates to urge both the Congress of Members and other European institutions, this too is not a reason they can argue with, because often we have initiatives that call for and which require other bodies to make certain decisions. Obviously, I don't think they have a consensual position and they say that, but then, at least, they speak clearly and say that they don't understand it, that there are different views in the party on this issue, but don't say that the initiative of the Galician Nationalist Block doesn't make sense, because we understand that it does, and that they have every right to bring about an initiative like this to talk about a fundamental topic. And I'm going to end up with that, really, where we have to put the center is to defend women's freedom of life, free from resources, but not freedom to buy and buy everything that happens to us. The free market is taking fast steps to commercialize absolutely all the spaces of our life, also our body, and we think that's where we have to put one of the fundamental barriers. With the women's body, we can't continue to negotiate, not with the rights we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u225	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u226	Thank you, President. How will we, the people of the Bloc, nationalist militants, feel about something, without asking permission, so that we can think, so that we can debate, so that we can present initiatives with absolute freedom! They want to lead us to a model of society, in parallel with the positions expressed by Mrs Prado, from which I, frankly, stop the world because we're going down! [[Applause]] We have all the right and legitimacy of the world to have a clear political position on things, debated, formed, made public, in addition, long before this debate started in the Greek Parliament. The one we don't have is that of the People's Party, because Mrs Prado came here, on a run-out absolutely, to tell us what she thinks, to hide her ideology — we are very afraid — of defending models and practices of exploitation of women's bodies to create children, babies, products, for others, for others, whether in Galicia, the Spanish state or anywhere in the world. [[Applause]] Stop the world, because at least the BNG militants are down! I don't know if it's because they don't want to tell us what they think, that this would be an exercise of cynicism and hypocrisy absolutely, or because it's uncomfortable and annoying, very annoying and very uncomfortable, in the ranks of the People's Party. That's the problem, that there are people sitting there who I'm sure do not share at all the intervention that the spokesperson for the People's Party made today. We are absolutely against the position that he tries to keep, in that run forward, the spokesperson of the People's Party, and I understand that, by extension, also the group of the People's Party, which is trying to create realities through the accomplished facts. As there is exploitation of women for these types of practices in Ukraine or Greece or the United Kingdom -- we can talk about cases in the United Kingdom, about how they go to countries like Ukraine, precisely because there are no British women who want to lend themselves to these practices, according to the data provided by the UK Ministry of Health, we can talk about these cases if they want to, you want to create realities through the facts. And in that sense, we do not agree at all, in defense, first, of women's rights and a model of society based on values, in defense of the common good and collective rights, not of mercantilization to satisfy individual, private desires. He used to talk about the children here and refer to the statements of the highest leader, beloved leader, of the People's Party, Mr. Married, who tells us that from the first weeks of management it is an autonomous life. See how this looks to you, according to your parameters and ethical scale values, which don't have to be mine. Let's see what they think! This is a lease contract, we got it from a worker, a human rights lawyer, Nuria López, who did a brutal research job to unravel everything behind these agencies. Among other things, it's called the overload if you have a twin pregnancy, which in artificial insemination processes is quite common, but also which quotas you have to pay to reduce these pregnancies. Reduction of multiple pregnancy: from trillizos to mellises to single child, has a super cost of a thousand euros. Reduction in pregnancy from trillizos to single child, 1,500 euros.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u227	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u228	The decision, of course, does not make the woman gesture, but the people who hire the lease of that body.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u229	About the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u230	One question. The People's Party, at the last national congress — I believe it to be so — incorporated into its statutes the vote by conscience. In those issues not included in the electoral programs that directly address their values and ethical principles — but they don't have to be mine — let them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u231	About the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u232	...the freedom of vote. We're not going to accept the amendment. Vote freely.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-02-26-DSPG103.u233	Thank you. We'll stop the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Good afternoon.
