ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u1	Good morning. Change in agenda development
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u2	We continue the session, and we forward the two questions to the President of the Board that are being dealt with today. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the level of confidence of citizenship in the face of the continuing changes of criteria of the Government of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u3	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u4	Thank you very much. Good morning. Mr Feijóo, we are living in times when it is necessary to dignify politics and regain its true meaning, and for that it is key that politics sustain itself in principles, values and ethics. Cicero once said, "When politicians don't resist ethics, they're like hyenas to the hunt of power." And in order to dignify politics, the value of the word is very important. That what you do corresponds to what you say. On May 16th, an interview was published, in which you made a very round statement: "For Ourense it would be lethal to have Jácome as mayor." But he didn't stay there, because you didn't save any qualifications about this person. He said it was "...a hystrionic person, unlike an open and cordial city. Unfortunately, we're starting to get to know each other for that. We're worried because it gives us the wrong image." Three weeks later, this lethal, hystrionic politician and opposed to an open and cordial city is mayor of Ourense by work and grace of the People's Party's vows. And it must be said that this is a boisterous spectacle, which causes shame, Mr. Feijóo. But he has another reading, which is a political reading, most important for what we should be concerned about, and it is that he lets the president of the board naked because he shows us that his word is worthless and that he practices the worst of policies, that he has no principles or ethics and that they only seek an end, a goal, clinging to power at any cost. His opportunistic change of criteria is what he's willing to do anything to keep himself in power. He's willing to sacrifice Ourense's future because there's nothing more important to Feijóo than to stay in the armchair. And to try to cover up this bochurnous spectacle, he does what is best given him: censorship in the media and to put in place publicity and propaganda, using the Board to start his pre-election, in a desperate attempt to cover up reality: the reality of his failure because you are the worst president of Galicia's history, the reality of the election battalions of the People's Party and the reality that, if elections were held today, the Greeks and the Greeks would put their suitcases on the door, tired of seeing how a country with so much potential has a demographic indentation that walks galloping, where new people are looking hopelessly at the future and where public services are deteriorating. [[Murmurs.]] So we asked him if he could explain to this chamber why Galicia has to pay the terrible consequences of his lack of discretion, his lack of speech, and now the use of the board as an election office. Because look, Mr. Feijóo, the Greeks and the Greeks don't need an Ionchi president of power, willing to everything, willing to do anything in order to remain in government, they need a president who puts Galicia's interests ahead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Pontón, I am surprised at some of your statements. We agree with Cicero, no doubt, even if he's not a nationalist. We agree with Cicero, and that is, without a doubt, an opening proposal that seems to have the Galician Nationalist Block. I have just been censored for meeting with the Government last Thursday at the Council's time and inviting the high offices of the Galician Union to have the Government explain to the entire governing body of the Autonomous Community which are the projects of the councils and for the president of the board to intervene to explain which are ultimately the transversal projects of the councils themselves. I'm surprised, Your Honor, that you don't know that this Council of Galicia has made two strategic plans, at this moment we are fulfilling the second, and I'm surprised that you don't know that the governments that plan the logic are to present what their strategic lines are surrounded and concretely in the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2021-2027, Horizon 2030. I understand, Mrs. Pontón, that for you this is something unheard of because when you were ruling you couldn't bring the whole government together. And they couldn't bring the whole government together because the BNG's high office wasn't talking about the PSOE's high office, and the PSOE's high office wasn't talking about the BNG's high office. You imagine the president of the board at that time summoning the senior positions of the BNG councils to talk together about the government's action. What would happen? Well, they just wouldn't attend. That's why it's more than surprising that you and the PSOE, who for these purposes are the same, are surprised that the President of the Board summons his Government, and his general directors, and together we speak of Galicia at the headquarters of the Self-Government, which is San Caetano-Junta of Galicia. That's very surprising, but as far as you can see, BNG's surprises don't end there. Tell you that we don't have criteria in the elections and in whom we rule. But if I speak and this parliamentary group and my party propose amendments to the electoral law to govern the most voted list. If in the press round of the night of the municipal elections I've proposed the most voted list again. If all this time I've been calling the Socialist Party and the BNG to let those who won the polls rule. And now it seems that the BNG and the Socialist Party wanted to rule the House of Ourense with Ourense Democracy and, in addition, invite citizens. [[Murmurs.]] The same way BNG rules with citizens in Malpica. [[Murmurs.]] Don't laugh, Mrs. Ponton, don't laugh. Those citizens who considered you the ultra-right old-fashioned, turn out to be BNG's partner in Malpica and wanted to rule with him in the House of Ourense. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Pontón, we have our criteria. Noting that the Lord of Ourense Democracy would rule with the Socialist Party in Deputation and with the BNG, finding that Ourense Democracy would rule with the Socialist Party in the Council of Ourense, and finding that the Socialist Party would in no case accept the ruling of the People's Party where you have won, as you can imagine, if the BNG can deal with Ourense Democracy and the Socialist Party too, what is the imputation? Is the imputation what the People's Party can rule with the same people who wanted to rule the BNG and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party? It's at least surprising, Mrs. Pontón. [[Murmurs.]] It's true that there's little surprise here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u7	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u8	After his background, after his pacts, after his alliances, I'm no longer surprised by anything the Galician Nationalist Block says. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u9	Thank you, President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u10	Mr. Feijóo, we see him again in the escapist fashion, the obsession of the Bipartite, yes, because you have an obsession, I don't know. Ten years ruling and constantly coming here opposing a government that does not exist. I hope, of course, that by 2020 you may be in the most comfortable place it is, that it is making opposition, because the Greeks and the Greeks place it there. [[Applause]] I'm actually surprised you're talking about pacts, because it's like talking about pacts. Yes, yes, a party that deals, and also wants to do it in a secret way, with that extreme old-right, racist, masquerade, who is denying the terrorism most women have killed in this country, which is male terrorism. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Those are the pacts that defend and support the People's Party. [[Applause]] You're about to make a deal! And he doesn't explain to us, Mr. Feijóo, how you may see coherently that your party will hand over the city of Ourense to a person you yourself have defined as lethal, as histrionic and as the opposite to an open and cordial city. That's your letter of presentation, and you come here now to tell us that the fault of your pacts with Ourense Democracy is the Block and the Socialist Party. Do you really think you can carry on with this coat of hair, Mr. Feijóo? Don't you realize that every time we put him in front of the mirror of his words, the only thing we see is something that is very worrying about this country, that the President of the Board so much says something about how he does the opposite and we can't believe in his word? [[Murmurs.]] And look, the best example of you can't believe in your word is that you come here constantly repeating the same promises. Last Thursday you did a pre-election act, you didn't do a government act, because if you had so much to offer to the Greeks and to the Greeks, you wouldn't suspend the Government Council, where decisions can be made for the future, to make a rally at the headquarters of the Galician Union. He would have gathered his office and made decisions. [[Applause]] Whenever you want, let's review the Board's advice and see how many reports, reports, reports, propaganda and propaganda come out of these Board's advice because there's no political matter or substance. [[Murmurs.]] Look, there's someone who says that life... yeah, yeah. [[Murmurs.]] I very much appreciate the respect of counsellors and advisors, who come to Parliament laughing at what the opposition has to say, laughing at the Greeks who don't think like them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u11	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u12	It's a portrait of how you understand democracy. Keep going, keep going, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, showing a lack of respect for you... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u13	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u14	...to this Parliament and to the Greeks and to the Greeks. Mr. Feijó, some say that life is what happens to us as we make plans. You have a lot of plans, but the reality is that it leaves Galicia touched after these ten years. I insist, Galliza doesn't need a president who's an Ionchi of power and who only wants to hold...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u15	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u16	...to the armchair at any cost.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u18	Of course you're not the president that Galicia needs.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u19	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u20	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u21	Thank you. Close the question, president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u22	Certainly, to listen to Mrs. Ana Pontón ask the advisors for respect for what she says, after calling the president anonqui, as you can imagine... you contradict yourself every thirty seconds! Mrs. Pontón, talk about the Bipartite... look, I have a lot more respect for the president and vice president of the Bipartite than you, no doubt. It is true that on one occasion the Council met to approve the celebration of the daughter of Boqueixón of Greek interest - that is true - as the only item on the agenda. I criticized him when he was in opposition. That you criticize me for the advice of the Board is a surprising thing, Mrs. Pontón. Do you think a president can't meet with counsellors and can't hold a meeting with high government officials? Does that sound like a propagandistic proposal? Do you think the government's coordination meetings are propaganda? I understand you've never been in a government, and you don't know what the coordination of a government is and what the government is. That's a big difference between you and this government. [[Applause]] In any case, Mrs. Pontón, since she talks about terrorism, last week you missed a great opportunity to change your mind within German nationalism. Instead of taking advantage of the arrests of the fugitives of justice, suspected terrorists of Galician Resistance, the only terrorist band that exists in Spain, you last Monday, instead of congratulating the state's security forces and bodies, asked for presumption of innocence, which I think is good, but you were far more prudent toward those two alleged terrorists than towards any political rival who is accused or called to declare a trial in Galicia. And in his press round, Your Honor, he deserved more reproach from a BNG candidate for accepting PP votes than those alleged terrorists. That's why, Mrs. Pontón, speaking of the BNG of terrorism in this House is simply not to remember, and to the Greek nationalism so goes, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] He's talking about changes in criteria. But what are we talking about? Since 2004, when the BNG was in electoral coalition with the Basque Nationalist Party and with Convergence i Unió, that is, the bourgeois right, to understand us, in Basquedi and Catalonia? Now it turns out that this same BNG goes into an electoral coalition with Bildu and the Republican Left of Catalonia, that is, Catalan independence and the heirs of Basque terrorism. Yes, Your Honor, there are militants in Bildu who have firm sentences for terrorism. [[Protests.]] Yes, Mrs. Pontón. Terrorist lessons to the People's Party, the BNG, none, Mrs. Pontón, none! Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Applause]] But, Mrs. Pontón, what kind of change of mind do you talk to me about? In 2015, when they arrived at all the deputies - after losing the elections, as the BNG always does - they said that they had to break down these deputies and move their powers to the municipalities and the Autonomous Community. And now it turns out that in 2019 they return to the Deputy of Lugo and the Deputy of Coruña — after they have lost the elections cryingly — and the exclusive dedications are distributed? What are you talking about? From what Mr. Orozco said he couldn't be mayor of Lugo, and now it turns out they're co-governing in Lugo with an equally accused mayor like Mr. Orozco? What kind of change of mind are you talking about, Your Honor? [[Murmurs.]] From the change of criterion of ruling with Citizens in Malpica de Bergantiños? Or don't you remember where the Spice of Bergantiños is anymore, Mrs. Pontón? Look, Mrs Pontón, it is ironic that a Member who voted against the transfer of the freeway from the Atlantic comes here to speak of a change of opinion. [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u23	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u24	I know he's laughing. BNG always laughed at everything that bothers him. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Applause]] Yes, Your Honor. Or to speak of a change of opinion of a party that blessed the Government of Spain to invest 8% of the general budget in Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u25	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u26	and that was all a historical event, and then he took us back because that same government of Spain invested a ten, a twelve, a thirteen and a fourteen percent of the State budget in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u27	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u28	That's why, Your Honor, for criteria, yours.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u29	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u30	In the campaign, in a coalition with Left and Bildu, and then they rule with the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u31	Thank you, thank you. Your time is over, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u32	Look, Your Honor, those criteria for this party and Galicia I don't want them. Nothing else. Could not connect [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u33	Thank you. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo asks for the floor.]] What do you want the word for, Mrs. Pontón?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u34	Mr. President, I think it is very clear that the president of the board has just slipped some accusations that are very serious, not only about my person...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u35	No, no, sorry...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u36	...insidious...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u37	No, no, no...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u38	...yes, yes, yes, in relation to [...]...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u39	No, no, I'm sorry, Mrs. Pontón. No, no...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u40	...and I want it to be very clear...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u41	No, no, you don't listen, Mrs. Pontón. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, no, I'm sorry, because I was attentive to the debate and the debate was an absolutely political tone debate and there was at no time... [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, no, I'm sorry, I won't give you the floor. No, no, I won't give you the floor. In that sense, I won't give you the floor. I didn't appreciate... yes, yes, I've already spoken to you, but you're telling me there were serious accusations here and they were in all terms political expressions... You have no word, Mrs. Pontón. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, you don't have the floor. No, no, you don't have the word and I call it by order. Mrs. Pontón, you don't have the floor. No, no, Mrs. Pontón, I'll call you in order for once. I'll call her in order. No, no, I'm sorry, I call her by order... yes, I call her by order. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] It's over... call the order. It's over, it's over. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] You have a call to order. No, no, no. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, no, I don't keep... Mrs. Pontón, I don't hold on to a matter that I have clear. He's got a call to order and he's done here. No, you don't have the floor. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] You don't have it... that you don't have it because I didn't appreciate it... it's over. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Your time is up. It's over. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, sorry, no... I'm not going in. [[Murmurs.]] I'm sorry. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] I've been careful, the debate is hard many times. In all the debates we can give, but we must also be able to fit in, and here the debate was a political debate. It's over, it's over. [[Protests.]] The debate is over. It's over. It's over. And I don't want to keep calling order, please. Let's go on. No, you don't, Mrs. Pontón. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] You don't have the floor. It is Mr. Fernández Leicega's turn. It's over. He didn't listen, he didn't record. [[Applause]] Everything he said wasn't recorded because you don't have the word. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Well, it's not recorded. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] No one heard him. Besides, you don't have the use of the word. Yeah, if you want to do that... yeah, all right. [[Murmurs.]] No, no, sorry. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga of G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the global balance of the more than ten years of exercise of the Presidency of the Galician Union
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u42	Question by Mr Xoaquín Fernández Leiceaga, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u43	Mr. Núñez Feijóo, you have just over a year left to finish your third and I hope that last term, and you have passed more than ten since you took the presidency of the Council of Galicia. You should be able to tell us already what was the central axis of your government action, what priorities you had, which are resolved after ten years and which you intend to leave Galicia as a legacy of your eleven years when you finish this government legislation. Look, Galicia is getting smaller in demographic terms. Since 2008 94,000 people have been lost in Galicia. This year 2018, last closed, has the highest negative crop balance known. So we have a demographic problem. Today, fewer family projects are being launched in Galicia than in recent decades, and families have one child when they want to have two. Mr. Fraga and yourself said that the demographic crisis was a priority. Is it still a priority? Because their worsening in these years testifies to the failure of their family policies. We've got more and more seniors, but you've kept the pharmaceutical co-op, you've failed residency policy, creating undeclared taxes on older people and their families, and in addition to the cuts in primary care, it's just difficult to attend to an age group that needs you much more than any. Was it the priority of their government action to pay attention to older people, to strengthening public services? We have a Galicia with less work base. We have less than 90,000 busy since 2018 compared to 2008, and a drop of 16% in the hours worked in the same period, 16%! The number of young people dropped by 43%, but the number of busy boys dropped by 45%. We have less work base. Was employment a priority, as you said in your contract with Galicia? Have you solved that problem yet? With less productive base. One out of three jobs lost in Spain in agriculture, fisheries or industry, one, a third of the total, was in Galicia in these three major sectors. Are agriculture fishing and industry the priorities of its government action at this time? And he was unable to create the conditions to capture the investments Galicia needs. We're still in R+D+i below the GDP percentages of 2008. Was R+D+i a priority and that's why we're under there? With the MOVE Plan still on the horizon of 2013, despite the European funds that continue to reach Galicia. With an offer of very late industrial soil in relation to Portugal. And with the training management for the job that deserves to be reviewed from the bottom. These are the circumstances. Was this the priority for Galicia? Was it a priority for the assumption of competences, the consolidation of self-government? Where were the priorities and what did you solve, Mr. Núñez Feijóo? What was the central axis of your government action? We don't need any more propaganda, we don't need more marketing, we need results, and for the results we need an effective government option, but it's based on a paradigm shift that you, of course, are not willing to give. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u44	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Leicega, what remains of my government is more than Mr. Sánchez has ruled in Spain, so look at what has happened since Mr. Sánchez is ruling after the motion of censure and what may still happen in Galicia. But the truth is, you never know what's left of government to everyone because it's the citizens who decide the governments that extend and those oppositions that continue to extend them for a long time in the opposition. This question sounds to me like goodbye, but not mine, but yours. You seem to take advantage of it to try to make a balance of what your spokesperson was. I'm very sorry, because you know I have personal appreciation and respect for most of the things you say. There's a part I don't respect because you just don't believe it. That's why, Mr. Leicega, I'd like to tell you that you should be more careful about the balance of the ten years because we made it public. We compare in front of the media on March 1, 2019 to make public what we achieved, because the Greeks wanted it on March 1, 2009. I know you'll understand that this was an act of propaganda, but your question is not, your question is a concrete and clearly powerful question. Yes, Mr. Leicega, yes. But it doesn't matter, we're going to see each other in Parliament, perhaps for longer than you believe. Mr. Leicega, after three consecutive absolute majority, I suppose the first eight years have already been balanced, the unappealable decision of the Greeks in the polls. And now there's still the balance that the Greeks are going to make in 2020. We therefore refer ourselves to the balance sheet of the Greeks of the year 2020 while you and I cordially disagree. Look, this government as long as it has been ruling, and is ruling, has had to manage the most important crisis worldwide since the mid-20th century, also aggravated — as not! — by the policies of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, both in Galicia and with the Bipartite and especially in Madrid with Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero. In the context of autonomous communities, why would the autonomous community change? Which autonomous community has better ratios than Galicia? Is there any autonomous community in the common system that has better economic, social, health and educational data? Is there any autonomous community that can say in Spain that the greatest convergence of all autonomous communities in this decade has corresponded to it? No, that autonomous community is Galicia. Is there any autonomous community in Spain that can say that the income per capita per citizen where he's risen was in that autonomous community? [[Applause]] No, no, no, no. Of all the autonomous communities in Spain, where the highest per capita income in the last decade was in Galicia. So why would the autonomous community change? Is there any autonomous community of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party that we should copy? Is there anyone? Is there any alternative proposals? Look, Your Honor, you tell me about health. The smallest waiting lists in history, the greatest infrastructure in history, the best investment in history technology and the biggest public health budget in history. [[Applause]] You tell me about education. Your Honor, in education we have more teachers per student than anywhere in Spain. We are within the first four autonomous communities in international reports, PISA reports, and we have the most accessible universities in Spain. You tell me about well-being. There are 61,000 addicts who charge every month, 61,000! And the largest percentage of the increase in social public squares in history.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u46	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u47	You talk to me about inclusion, let's talk about inclusion. We have the poverty rate below that the Bipartite had in 2008, and you're still talking about inclusion. And now you want to talk about unemployment. Twenty-four percent less unemployment than when we got to the government. Twenty-four percent less unemployment, 60,000 less unemployed. And you're talking about Social Security. Look, when I got to the government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u48	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u49	...the social security affiliations were down 54,000 affiliates less than a year; in the last year, we've been bringing more than 21,000 new members to Social Security. Mr. Leiceaga, tell me that the autonomous community of Spain, governed by the Socialist Labour Party Spanish or that the autonomous community of Spain can present this balance sheet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u50	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u51	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u52	Replica, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u53	Mr. Núñez Feijóo, I think you didn't answer the central issue. It is clear that I appreciate that such a positive reference to Government Sánchez, which is changing in a year - as you have well said - what Mr. Rajoy has not done for so long. I think it's a recognition that honors you. [[Applause]] But I'm asking you to do what he does. Do as he does and change. Look, you, and Mr. Fraga Iribarne used to say that demography was Galicia's main concern, but the demographic decline has not grown since you were president of the board. Was that your priority? Tell me if it was, yes or no. That's your legacy, what are you going to leave us? And in employment, look, it turns out that all of Spain has already recovered the employment levels of 2008, and at this rate we need five more years. That's your legacy. I compare myself to the set of Spain, with the average, so there's no problem, with the average of Spain. Spain has already recovered its job, we need five more years. That's your differential legacy, Mr. Núñez Feijóo. Tell me about it, tell me if it's like that or not, so I can't talk about the quality of the job anymore. And in the care of the territory, but don't you realize that the territorial imbalances have only done more than sharpen since you are president, that we have a Galicia that is left aside, while much more is concentrated on the wealth and population in the Atlantic axis? And in terms of protecting the territory, how many additional hectares have you incorporated into the natural parks in Galicia since you are president? And are laughter healthy, after so many European funds for this, or are we still awaiting sanctions that Europe can apply to us? And in self-government, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, you can't say anything because it turns out you haven't received any competition because you haven't claimed it, and even voted against an agenda for this which we just proposed not to oppose, say, possible voters from VOX. In terms of language or promotion of culture, you are limited to accompanying the decline that exists in Galicia without placing on the table any decisive but tax-free initiative, inclusive of the families, understanding with the people, that you are able to give the Greek the status you deserve. Call me the attention you're talking about health. His legacy here seems to be disappointing to everyone, because it is an explosive cocktail of strategic foresight, cuts and the promotion of precariousness that has also side effects. That's your legacy in this matter, Mr. Núñez Feijóo. Will the housing be its central axis, when we know you haven't done anything about promoting public housing these years? These are the issues that interest citizens who are interested in citizenship. And now it's a duty for 2027 and it discovers that the accent must be put in the families...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u54	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u55	...on Thursday, in innovation and in the territory. That's the best synthesis of your failure as president these years. Those matters are the best synthesis of their failure. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, the inertia, the mere administration, do not replace a well-orientated government action. You're actually not dressed — metaphorically — and you're not going to be able to cover up with the leaves of the DOG, for a lot of them produce...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u56	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u57	...in the months that remain in San Caetano. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u58	Thank you. Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u59	Mr. Leicega, you are very proud of what Mr. Sánchez has done in the past year. Yes, we have a great discrepancy, especially with Galicia, Mr. Leicega! You say why I don't copy Mr. Sánchez. Do you want us to get into an atmosphere of absolute instability in the Autonomous Community of Wales? He didn't even transfer us the percentage that corresponds to our deliveries to account; 300 million euros without transfer. It doesn't even transfer to us what corresponds to the IVE; 200 million euros without transfer. And it doesn't transfer to us, nor does it correspond to the negative liquidations. Altogether, 700 million euros of Mr. Sánchez's poof with Galicia. And you say you copy. Would you copy this lack of respect for the Greeks? I'm sorry we're not going to debate the state of Autonomy, because it seems like you just anticipated it. Don't worry, you have a lot more data than you can replace. That's why it's going to be a loss for me that I can't argue with people who have data, but what I'm surprised is that you're taking the data, like, you have to say something about housing, water, etc. Vegetative balance. Is it the fault of the German Government? That we've spent 40 years with a vegetative balance and a decrease in the number of births the blame is on Mr. Feijóo. When Mr. Feijóo was in primary school, he was already starting to have a birth problem in Galicia. Yes, ladies, yes. [[Laughter]] Yes, yes. I was studying in the Pearls and I was already guilty of birth problems in Galicia. [[Applause]] Anyway. You, however, don't applaud that we finally have the best migration balance in the last decade, which we know yesterday. They entered Galicia 13 thousand more than they left. So that permanent smoke curtain of the Socialist Party and the BNG, as always, goes away. You do not accept that GDP per capita had grown in Galicia in the last decade more than in any other autonomous community, in no other autonomous community!, would be our presentation card. The presentation card for the Galician People's Party is: we pulled Galicia out of the economic recession, we didn't create any problems for the Greeks, we tried to keep the Greek society united, and we managed to make the per capita income of the Greeks as historic as possible and that it was the one that grew most from Spain in the last decade. That's our presentation card. [[Applause]] You're talking about unemployment. I mean, 50,000 unemployed less, 24% less unemployed, you think it's a joke. You're talking about the occupancy rate. Why don't you say that the employment rate for children under thirty-four is exactly the same as for the Bipartite? Why don't you say that? And why is it now beginning to stain the active population, knowing that underage 16 to 34 are less than there was with the Socialist Party. Well, the employment rate of children under 34 is exactly the same as there was at the time of economic kindness. Why don't you say that we have the most important positive balance in our history, and that together with the Basque Country we are the two autonomous communities with the most competitive of our economy, having a positive balance of clear and powerful imports and exports in Spain that has a negative balance of their imports and exports in the last decade? Why, Mr. Leicega, don't you congratulate us because we finally have the best data in the last ten years of the number of people entering Galicia on those coming out? Thirteen thousand people entered Galicia on the ones that came out. Look, we create jobs, we don't cause problems to the Greeks, we invest more, we have a social policy that reaches more people and we pay less taxes. That's Galicia's stability. I know what matters to the Galician Socialist Party. You know why? Because I've been in government for ten years.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u60	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u61	And in those ten years of government, no president of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party visited Galicia as president. None. Not Mr. Zapatero, not Mr. Sánchez. They've come to rally, yes, but to have a meeting or a meeting with the German Government in ten years.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u62	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u63	In ten years, Your Honor, the Socialist Party presented the worst budget in history from an investment point of view, with 30% decline, while we saw autonomous Mediterranean communities with 60% increase.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u64	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u65	What matters to the Socialist Party in these ten years I know perfectly well. What I care about Galicia not only I know, but I feel it every day. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u66	Thank you, President. We continue with the fourth point of the agenda, proposals not of law. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and seven other Members, on the development by the Galician Union, with the participation of the most representative trade union organizations, of a proposal for the implementation of child school services for the staff of the autonomous administration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u67	Amendments have been tabled by the Parliamentary Group on the Galician Nationalist Block and by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u68	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mr. Díaz Villoslada has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u69	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Good morning to the assistants. We have just finished -- as we have been accustomed to -- to attending a new exercise of escapism by President Feijóo, because it gives the feeling that in this so-called happy Arcadia, in this one intended in another Bavaria, ten years of self-government by the People's Party of Galicia had nothing to do with the X-ray we can do today, at least, to focus on this initiative, on social policies. Because talking about infant schools, talking about the network of children's schools, is talking about a small mechanism that is part of all the services of reconciling working life, family life, personal life, and therefore also talking about one of these mechanisms that have to help alleviate the serious demographic crisis that Galicia suffers. But it is also an element that must be framed in the critique of labor that still suffers the woman in Galicia, and also in the alarming situation of lack of opportunity for the emancipation of Galician boys and girls. We are told from the rostrums of the People's Party, we are told in the various interventions by the Social Policy Council, the Council of Education, repeatedly in this plenary session, of the importance of issues that are always simple, I will say "parches", simple "remedies", given the seriousness of the demographic situation. I mean, to talk about natalist policies, to talk about mere conciliation mechanisms -- I mean, it doesn't stop being talking about merely palliative mechanisms, because, really, the core of the problem is in women's labour equality policies in Galicia; the core of the problem is able to address the problems of decent youth employment; the core of the problem in Galicia is to avoid, of course, the serious situation of lack of access to housing by young people as well; and the core of the problem is also in the attraction and retention of talent and also - which is never spoken, usually, of this issue — in policies that attract immigrants. We've just seen how the migration balances over the past two years are being positive, but they're not enough, and we all know how, in addition, these migration balances do not cease to be, apart from insufficient, purely conjunctural, because -- as we know -- more than 6,000 or 7,000 immigrants are returned from the serious situation in Venezuela. In this sense, I want to link this initiative with the previous initiative put forward by my companion Noela Blanco, precisely on the network of children's schools, in an interpellation that the full past had presented before the Social Policy Councillor, on children's schools from 0 to 3 years in industrial polygons and business parks. In this sense, it was pointed out as the network of children's schools, the set of children's schools, is a very important public resource in both labor and demographic terms, an indispensable tool for reconciling family and work life, to increase the rate of female occupation, to offer public resources to bring back those thousands of young people who have left our country, but, above all, - I insist - is a fundamental resource for reducing social inequality. We observed in that interpellation and in that subsequent debate of the motion - rejected by the People's Party - as in the network of public schools of children, of public management, there is only one square for every ten boys or girls in Galicia, and if we raise this ratio to the whole network of children's schools, there is only availability of squares for four out of ten. We also observed in that question, in that debate, such as that policy for the promotion of children's schools in the main centres of work, in the industrial industrial polygons of Galicia, was a priori failure because there was an unexecuted budget of around 80 per cent. In those debates, the Social Policy Counsellor — and I read — told us, in this great way that the Greek Government has accustomed us to, that the times when a family member, always a woman, was conditioned to stay at home to take care of the children, were fortunately passed into history. The incorporation of women into the labour market -- I said -- was one of the most important changes our society has experienced in the last half century. But we are already in the 21st century, we cannot continue to invoke these arguments - as I say - of this happy Arcadia that is usually seen from the German Government. We're going to look at some of the data that I think are more significant, because of this initiative, when we're doing an X-ray on the demographic situation in Galicia, the situation of youth employment, the situation of women's work and the situation of access to housing, as I said at the beginning of this presentation. Because in the face of President Feijóo's arguments, the statistical data is there, as much as they are tortured or as much as they are manipulated, or as much as the databases of calculation of these statistical data are manipulated. And so we have the latest provisional data from 2018, the National Institute of Statistics, pointing out that Galicia is still the autonomous community with the worst vegetative balance. For the first time, there were twice as many deaths as births; thirty-two thousand in front of sixteen thousand five hundred fifty in 2018, with a negative vegetative balance of less than fifteen thousand people. And in Ourense, by the way, three deaths per birth. Galicia is also the autonomous community where births most fall, 10% compared to 2017, compared to the average of all Spain that has a fall over 2017 of 6%. Galicia is the third autonomous community with the worst conjunctural fertility index; i.e., in paladino Romanian, of children per mother, 1.04. And Galicia as for the birth rate, birth rate per thousand inhabitants, has the second worst birth rate in Spain, 6.13. This is the X-ray of this Galicia that the voices and voices of the Popular Group usually paint as "the best place in the world to be born." Youth employment data. 29% of the children under thirty-five years of age who are self-employed survive with less than 1,000 euros. Four out of ten under thirty-five years of age have a temporary contract, and from 2007 to 2018, nine thousand to sixty-six thousand homes formed by children under thirty-five years of age fell. This is still the 10-year X-ray of Government Feijóo. Demographic winter, more absolute precarious work of young people and girls. Data from EPA 2018 on the employment situation of women in Galicia. The female activity rate remains eight points less than the male employment rate. Women in Galicia, of the total occupied population, are only playing 2% of leadership positions, compared to nearly 5% of men. Women occupy mostly part-time jobs; one hundred and twelve thousand women, in front of thirty-three thousand men, 2018 data. Maternity permits, almost 98% are only requested by the mother. The day-to-day reductions by legal care of children are being demanded by women in 76%. Family care surpluses are being requested by women on 86% of the occasion. This is the economic recovery, macroeconomic, which can't correct the woman's work situation in Galicia. [[Applause]] And we must bear in mind a fundamental fact, access to housing by young people under the age of thirty-five are putting an effort on the 56% salary. These are the ten years of population policies in hibernation. Now they announce a law of demographic impulse. It's not strange, by the way, it's no wonder they long for a prodigious decade. And in that sense, the initiative we bring today, as a complement to and as a follow-up to other initiatives by our parliamentary group on conciliation mechanisms, and in particular the empowerment of the public school network, is a historic demand of the staff councils of the entire autonomous administration. Because the Cunta of Galicia, especially in the cities where it has the most important work centres, only has resources of public ownership to provide school services to children, only in Vigo and Pontevedra. It is true that the Galician Social Services Agency, annually, has been convening a series of assistance for self-government staff, at the administrative centres of the Coruña, Ferrol, Lugo, Ourense or Santiago, but it is true that there are no public services of public child-care school by the Autonomic Administration in these important workplaces. It seems that in the San Caetano City project, I would go to the program to create a childhood school...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u70	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u71	...you've finished, President, but that has to be a reality not only in San Caetano, but also in San Lázaro and the rest of Galician cities. That is why, and to conclude, Mr President, the Socialist Parliamentary Group presents this initiative, in which we request that the Galician Union, in collaboration with the trade union organizations, set up a programme for the provision of children's schools in Coruña, in Ferrol, Ourense and Lugo, and secure at the two main centres in Santiago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u73	...I want to make, Mr. President, a little correction in your voice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u74	But then you have a second shift. Please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u75	Well, I'll do this little correction on the second shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u76	Thank you very much. I appreciate it. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado Cores has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u77	Good morning. The truth is that it would be very good if, in addition to promotional acts, the People's Party, starting with the President of the Union, had dealt with the real problems of the Greeks and the Greeks, and within these real problems, there is indeed the need for a network of children's schools in our country. The lack of sufficient public services and quality, of course, has consequences. And it has consequences, above all, for collectives with fewer possibilities to access those services when they have a cost. I think there's evidence, as much as it's meant to hide, that the network of children's schools in Galicia is tremendously deficient. It's a network that's not homogenous in the country; there are very strong imbalances about the possibility of resources throughout the country. There are waiting lists, waiting lists more than abundant. There is sectarianism in the implementation of new resources by the People's Party, with a clear destination of funds and resources to those councils where the People's Party is, and, on the contrary, lack of resources and devices where it does not govern. The author of the initiative has already given some of the data, but I think it is necessary to insist that the public squares in Galicia cover only 20% of the demand; that the concerted covers only 38.5% of that demand. Then, the fact that it's already blowing up all the alarms, that there are 4,000 children and girls who are out of place every year in our country's public schools, among other things, because of the scarcity of these existing public squares. So increasing squares is necessary, it's more than necessary, in all areas. We can go to the promise of Fexóo of implantation, for example, of children's schools in the industrial polygons, in its first legislation. We can remember that they've been there since 2009, ten years. He promised seven in the industrial polygons, a seven-swimming promise, but despite being rickets, we're up to mid- 2019 and only three have been verified. We are talking about industrial polygons as workplaces where, of course, it is necessary to have resources to facilitate reconciliation to parents and mothers, and that this worrying work situation in our country can also be carried out with more solvency. It's set up by children's schools that favor reconciliation yes, protection yes, improve opportunities too, fight inequality too, but from the point of view of BNG, which we're not going to tire of repeating, it also has to be a learning resource, it has to be a teaching resource. That's why we're concerned about the model of children's schools for the People's Party. We were concerned before this initiative, and today, seeing the amendment tabled by the People's Party, we are still more concerned, because where the initiative puts "childish schools", replaces it with "conciliatory services". I mean, he wants to further lower that model of childhood schools, thought of as an care model and not as a model of teaching. A model denounced by several organizations, among them Unicef, and we have just signed a pact with all the political organizations present in this Parliament with Unicef, in which it is denounced that this model conceived as an assistant and carer, and not as a child education, leads to a model of worst quality, because then inspections are focused on the administrative part and not on the part of educational or educational projects that have these centres. That's why we have tabled amendments to this initiative since BNG today. We'll vote anyway, whether accepted or not. First of all, in the sense that it puts on the official initiative, and we make an amendment in that it is for the staff who provide their services in the units of the Galician Union; it seems to us that this is much more inclusive for all kinds of staff. Also so that after the "child school services" is included the "sufficient number of public squares to cover the existing demand."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u78	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u79	We think we need to create a public network, not this network based primarily on that Galicia is not having a public network of children's schools, but is based on checks, bonds and private assistance agreements. We believe that can't be the model. We believe that we have to be comprehensive, President-in-Office of the Council who has competence in the field of education, that is to say, that it has to be teaching from 0 to 3 years; and, of course, that the General Plan of Linguistic Standardization is being complied with in this section too, because the data on the lack of knowledge, the non-use of children and children in our country in the Greek language is really chilling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u80	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Arias Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u81	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Galicia is a referencer in state-level conciliation policies thanks to the measures put in place by the Government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo, and that's not an opinion, it's not my opinion or the People's Group, that's accurate and contradictory data. As far as conciliation is concerned or the childish schools for staff that work in the Union, which is what this initiative brings us here today, it must be said that all staff who work in the Galician Union in the seven major cities have childish school squares for their children and children. In the case of Vigo and Pontevedra, in schools that are in the same area where they work, and in the other large cities in small schools in the city where their parents are working. But it's just that, Mr. Villoslada, you were talking about conciliation resources here today, joining the little schools, and for us it's much more than that. So in our initiative, we're not just talking about children's schools, but we want to add any means of conciliation, because we all feel it necessary, everything that comes to help a father, a mother, to be able to reconcile their work with their family life, and we can't just tie it to children's schools. And look, with that objective in recent years, other measures have also been put in place that facilitate the lives of the workers of the Galician Union. I'm going to remind you of just three: the progressive increase in maternity leave, which went from 16 to 22 weeks; telework and time flexibility. These last two formulas that have already benefited more than 11,500 public employees from Galicia and that are having a better reception every day, and never before in Galicia's history have there been so many possibilities to reconcile, both the staff who work in Galicia's board and the whole of the Greeks and the Greeks. I feel you have a political short-sighted mindset that doesn't allow you to positively value this data, to disturb you with this positive data, but that's what it is, that's what there is. Look, since you were in government in 2009 until now, three times the budget number allocated to families, and that, despite the fact that budgets in the Galician Union are still smaller today than in 2009, we have multiplied the budget number allocated to families by three. And for what? So look, among other things, I'm telling you, to double the number of squares of children's schools in 2009, reaching more than twenty-five thousand squares right now, moving from a coverage ratio of 19 percent to forty-four percent, eleven points above what you say is the European Union's target. That you come here to talk about the lack of children's school squares without getting colored is really amazing, both by the Socialist Party and by the BNG, with responsibilities in the two-party government when we had half the child's schools that we have right now. But not only children's schools are, for us, resources for conciliation — as we said — and that is why other resources have also been put in place in these years, in addition to economic aid that we are not going to talk about today. Among these resources are the Council bond, which does not have a budget limit precisely to make it easier for us to get to the zero waiting list in children's schools; the Care bonus, for those cases where families have a prompt need to have a conciliation service; the infant schools in industrial polygons—yes, sir!—a similar resource to what you ask for for public workers and yet here all they do is criticize. What we ask of them is that, please, if you put your hands on the work and, at least, don't put obstacles in the way; talk to your mayors and mayors so they can leave and facilitate the installation of these infant schools where employers and workers want them. The nested houses: zero in 2009, sixty-one at present; that's the balance. Because the goal is, we live where we live, work where we work and dedicate ourselves to what we dedicate ourselves, we always count on reconciliation resources. And we do it also by law; we want to do it by law. Look: demographic problems have occurred 40 years ago, but never a government has come to work as did the Government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo, to such an extent that we are processing the first law to support birth and demographic dynamization; the first law of demography to be passed in Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u82	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u83	I believe that this is in that context where we have to work and what we have to achieve a great consensus, because demographic problems and demographic policies have to be with a long-term vision and with the consensus of all political groups.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u84	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u85	I invite you to work on that line, and I invite you, too, to put these measures into effect once we adopt that law with the greatest possible consensus. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u86	Thank you very much, Mrs Arias. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs. Santos Queiruga has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. The truth is, I just got shocked. I don't know if he lets me hear more in shock on the repeated occasions I've heard in this chamber Mr. Núñez Feijóo deny his ineffective management with regard to conciliation, promoting birth and supporting women mainly to be able to have children, or if he scandalizes me more than one woman, one lady, Mrs. Arias, who is also a person who, by her tone and manners, respects; but who, of course, has been sown today. To me, as a young woman and with many new companions, it seems to me absolutely a lack of respect, a lack of sensitivity and a lack of ethics to avoid the reality that we live in women and want to use real data to build false premises. There are also other data that have already been shown in the intervention of the rapporteur, Mr Villoslada, who show the reality that we are suffering from women and that we suffer from new women, in addition to professions — in this case in public administration — that we can even consider ourselves fortunate, after studying and working hard to have our own squares, and still we have no children or daughters because we cannot reconcile or have no facilities to reconcile. Galician data is scandalous, and all those measures that you say... why do women like me and like so many companions, so we end up having children in extremes taking care of family help? It's not the family that has to take over the administration, it doesn't even have to be volunteer networks. Why do we end up having kids, anyway, in extremes, if we have them? Don't you wonder why that is? Are there other reasons? [[Murmurs.]] No, the reasons I explained them to you in the first person. Imagine other women working without stability, imagine! You? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, then I don't understand your lack of sensitivity and your irresponsibility by saying what you're saying, because, of course, the management of the board is so difficult... besides, a lot of measures that you haven't even taken from you. They follow the political initiative and proposals of other political organizations and other parliamentary groups, which we are proposing, in addition, schools from 0 to 3 years old and the extension of permits, with their votes against the state. It's shocking that they come here to insult us new women in our country, with data of demographic decline so bloody that we have in Galicia; so they come to tell us stories here. [[Murmurs.]] So I brought here an interview by the counselor himself, in which they asked him, in an interview by La Voz de Galicia: "Women want to have children but can't do it, are they failing the measures to curb demographic bleeding?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh And he starts saying without any kind of self-criticism that they're doing a lot of things. So why don't you slow down the demographic indentation in Galicia? Why don't new women have children? Because we don't want it; that's the version of the People's Party. We don't have children because we don't want them, because the People's Party does it wonderfully well, so women don't have children for vice. It's vice and comfort that we don't want to have children. [[Murmurs.]] It's the subjects that outrage any person who lives in the world.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u88	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u89	So we're going to support this initiative. The truth is, it brought several data to tell you about the waiting lists of children's schools or the excess prices they have, when a place is given to a family; because that's also, at best, we invented it. In fact, all that they want to do at work centers and business parks start applying it at home, where they already have spaces in public administration to facilitate reconciliation, as is said in the explanatory statement — which I fully agree —: increases the job position, the quality of rest time, productivity, motivation; reduces absenteeism; improves communication; mothers are more relaxed... i.e., how will they apply it in business parks if they don't do it in Galicia's board, in their own facilities, in their own complexes? I saw pilot experiences in Madrid, when I worked in Madrid in the ministries, and small difference! Of course, women were encouraged to have children, young women, new public servants. It's really their level of insult to issues that are, in addition, ending with the country in demographic terms... it's covered by many newspapers the demographic decline of Galicia, and they keep saying little less that it must be our fault, women who have no children; it's our fault, because the People's Party does it wonderfully well. And if the public employees are in that situation, imagine what the rest will be! Seriously, we're going to be serious about these things. Of course, we think BNG's amendments are good for improving the Socialist Party's initiative. Our support is certainly for this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u90	Thank you very much, Mrs. Santos. Mr. Díaz Villoslada has the floor for the author group of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u91	President, the correction in voice that I wanted to make is interrelated and even improved by one of the amendments tabled by the BNG in its text, in the sense that we would try not, of course, to circumscribe this initiative to the staff of the autonomous administration, not even to all the public employees, but to all the people who, for some labor reasons, have to be working in the large autonomous administrative centres. In that sense, for our part, as far as amendments are concerned, we would of course be in a position to present a compromise proposal by accepting points 1 and 2, of addition and substitution, which the BNG presents. In the other two aspects, we share a general debate about the model of children's schools and, of course, our party advocates in a clear way for the universalization of teaching from 0-3 years and also for the framework, of the networks of children's schools in the education system, and not in the social services care system, but on this initiative we believe that we would not specifically include this debate, because it would appear to be subtracted from the whole debate of children's schools. But we fully share that position. Mrs. Arias, we, after ten years of government of the People's Party in Galicia, are not in a position to take out our own colors; I mean, who has been ruling this country is the People's Party and Mr. Feijóo for ten years. So, I think it takes a little reflection and a little self-criticism after this decade precisely not prodigious. Because the truth is they talk a lot about conciliation measures, but what's true is the statistical data there is. I read in the first intervention that most, more than ninety-five percent of maternity leave, more than seventy-five percent of day-to-day reductions by legal care and more than eighty-five percent of family care surpluses are requested only and exclusively by women; these are the data. So we can introduce a lot of conciliation measures, but it's the woman in Galicia — and outside Galicia — but we're in Galicia with the autonomous policies — that she's taking forward the conciliation policies, in addition to working. So I think it's a reflection. That's why it's good for us to reflect that this isn't a care system, it's an education system. As far as the amendment tabled by the People's Party is concerned, we can agree that conciliation measures are concerned, and the Network of Children's Schools, which is important to us that it is a network of public-owned schools, may be a service more than conciliation. But we have not fled from the need to provide the large self-government centres precisely for these services. That's why we could add the conciliation services, but we couldn't exclude the specific mention of the commitment of the Greek Government to install childish schools where there are no large administrative centers: in the Coruña, in Lugo, in Ferrol and in Ourense. And, of course, if you are going to come into this chamber to debate a draft law of demographic impulse, which contemplates these measures on that legislative initiative — which seems to be getting a little late — and when it comes, we will have an opportunity to debate it. This would be the meaning of our transaction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u92	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u93	I would also like to thank the words and support of the Tide Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Villoslada, when they're done, if you can make the deal, I appreciate it. Thank you very much. We moved on to the next non-law proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de In Marea, at the initiative of Da María de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and Da Luca Chao Pérez, on the performances to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the titles issued by the School of the Canary Islands of Poio
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u95	This motion for a non-law was tabled by a self-amendment of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, an amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia, an amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia and an amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia. [[G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of his colleague Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, through his spokesperson and in the light of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, presented to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal.Amendment of amendment.The resolution must be replaced by the following text: "The Parliament of Galicia urges the Government of Galicia to address the Central Government for the purpose of establishing a new degree of vocational training in accordance with the teachings given at the Poio Canterry School."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of his colleague Luis Bará Torres, through his spokesman and in the light of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to the Bureau the following amendments to this non-law proposal.Amendment of amendment.The resolution must be replaced by the following text:"1. Start the necessary management for the approval of the Escola de Cantera's degree in a middle cycle title and in a top cycle degree of Cantera's teacher. In this approval, provide for a mechanism for the academic recognition of studies carried out by the student who has already completed the training."Additional amendment.The following text should be added to the resolution:"2. To address the Government of the State in order to promote the regulatory changes necessary for the creation of the so-called medium- and higher-cycle qualifications for vocational training.3. As a matter of fact, the German Parliament agrees as a resolution to express its appreciation for the tradition of canterry and for the formative, divulging and external projection work of the Poio School, as well as to express support for the demands of the Homologar Canteiros Poio Association in order to obtain recognition of its studies with official academic titles."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[G. P. Popular de Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Jacobo Moreira Ferro, through his spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislative amendment.Amendment of amendment.The resolution must be replaced by the following text:"The Parliament of Galicia urges the Council of Galicia to address the Provincial Deputation of Pontevedra so that, as the head office of the Escola de Canteiros, it may carry out the appropriate managements before the Central Government in order to provide a regulated training that enables it to obtain an official title of F.P., as well as to study the possibility of retroactively homologating all the titles issued by the Escola de Cantoires throughout its 40 years of history.]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[G. P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mrs. Julia Torregrosa Sanñudo, through her spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal.Amendment of amendment.The resolution must be replaced by the following text:"—The Greek Parliament urges the Government of Galicia to address the Central Government for the purpose of establishing a new higher degree of Professional Training of Canterry Master's degree in accordance with the teachings given at the Poio School.—The Galician Parliament urges the Council of Galicia to carry out the necessary management for the approval or validation of all the titles issued by the Escola de Canteriers throughout its 40 years of history.]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u96	To formulate the non-law proposition has the floor to Mrs. Torregrosa Sanñudo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Mrs. Torregrosa Sanñudo hangs in the gallery a shirt with the slogan "Homologation already. School of Poio Canteiros".]] Good morning, ladies. I'm very grateful that the Poio Singer Association is here to hear what we have to say in defense of this unfair situation. So, to begin with, I'll explain a little bit, in case someone doesn't know him, the school trip. The Poio Canteiros School was born in 1979 at the local monastery. It depended on the origin of the Ministry of Culture, logically, but three years later the Deputy of Pontevedra took charge of it. The school was created to transmit to the new generations the arts that for centuries have sounded to our heritage carved into stone. It must be said that in the 12th and 14th centuries, the cellars had a special condition in Greek politics; we must speak of Master Matthew. We have to talk about that they had their own language, the words of the arginas, which was the Latin of the cellars, as it was said in the 16th century. It's a trade, therefore, with a great historical and cultural tradition, of centuries, in our country. The school was then created with an initiative, clearly from the Public Service, to recognize an office that existed forever in our country. The institution offers five years of training: three that enable to be a masonry and two more to train the masons. Each course consists of about a thousand teaching hours; in total, four thousand six hundred hours of direct work on the stone, with programming organized into nine subjects: Canterry, Stone Restoration, Stone Sculpture, Modeled in Barro, Baleirado, Construction, Linear Drawing, Artistic Drawing and Art History; a very complete formation. When we talk about this student from the School of Singers we're talking about a group of a thousand and six hundred people who have made a great effort to achieve these five years of training in a school that is unique, both in our country and practically in the rest of the state, and which has been founded since the public administration forty years ago. They had to work for them and their families and seek residence near the school, an investment that logically has the right to be recognized and compensated. We do not understand why there is definitely no desire to give an administrative solution to this subject of recognition. Basically, at least it would have to be asked for equivalence and the creation of the title, well since the ministry itself when the school was founded, well since the Deputy from the year 2000. In any case, what Junta can't do -- it seems to us -- is, again, throw balloons out. You can't understand how in these twenty years you haven't only achieved an equivalence of professional qualification, which would at least demonstrate a desire of the Greek administration. Although two professional equivalence titrations are being requested through Deputy, it seems to us that these qualifications are not sufficient for the training that takes place in this school. Unfortunately, despite the fact that the centre has the necessary means -- it's a very equipped school -- with a lot of investment to be a national and international reference center, the reality is that at this moment it's only eleven students, and it's about to close. In his best times there were around 100 students, many of whom ended up working in the cathedral of Santiago, the Holy Family, the Big Ben or the Capitol, and right now they can, through management, collaborate in the reconstruction of Notre-Dame in Paris. The reason for such a descent of the student is that, because of the foolish disillusionment of the administrations — especially of the Galician Union — the school titles do not have validity. It does not have an official title to believe the professionalism of these students, so the office should be valued through the authorization of the titles. Vocational training we know that it is the exclusive competence of the Government of the Union, so it is up to him to initiate the procedures for approval, validation or professional accreditation so that the titles of the Poio Canterry School are recognized, as appropriate, as mid-cycle and higher cycle titles. We do not understand why they now answer in the Education Commission that they do not and vote against this request, which simply asked for an administrative solution to this validation of titles and passed it to the Central Government, when in 2017 Mr Núñez Feijóo was in his own school saying that he was in favour of approval and that he would be in favour of approval. Because in last December 2018, at a meeting with the school's colleagues, they also said they saw their approval possible and viable. What you can't fool people about is you can't play with people's work. To prevent a training managed from public administrations — we do not speak of a private or private initiative — it does not have a title recognised by the administration itself which created it is, in all light, unacceptable. Existing titrations, for example, such as the two thousand-hour technical one, exist. Those four thousand hours would correspond to an average degree more than a higher degree of FP training. We're talking about a limited situation right now, a school that can close soon, when it has budgets of a million euros a year. Is it disillusioned or bad will of an administration that does not want to take over their responsibilities again, refusing to manage a study approval and a specific qualification application that is leaving a professional and international prestigious school lifeless? It seems to us an obvious lack of willingness to take advantage of a professional exit with a future and without competition in the scarce market of the professional possibilities that our country has, as well as of losing that it can come to alumni from other territories to take advantage of the so-called academic prestige and to make a school of arts and trades that is an international reference to an occupation that is part of the tradition, history and culture for centuries in our country. So we ask you with this LNP to do the necessary procedures to solve this shameful situation. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u98	Thank you very much, Mrs. Torregrosa. Excuse me, you have to wear your shirt, Mrs. Torregrosa. Thank you. Mr Bará Torres has the floor by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u99	The T-shirt will stay here. Well, first of all, I want to welcome the representatives who are here from the Homologar Canteiros de Poio Association and also give them our recognition, from the BNG, for their struggle, for their absolutely fair claim that they are carrying out and because we think, in addition, that they are doing a job for themselves and for society as a whole, defending the prestige of a millennial profession and of a school that I have and must continue to have a great prestige at the Greek and international level. Therefore, our gratitude. At the same time, we miss the presence in this plenary of a representative of the Government, for example, of Employment or Education, when we are discussing a matter that affects nothing more and nothing less than six hundred people who have made a great effort to train and have no academic recognition. Actually, we're talking about a school that's forty years old. What better than celebrating these forty years with the official recognition of studies, with academic recognition in the regulated education system? That's the best celebration and the best homage that can be done. It must be said that there are shared responsibilities of the various administrations: of course, the Deputy of Pontevedra, who has been managing this school for thirty-seven years. By the way, of these thirty-seven, thirty-three years of the People's Party and now, the last four, of the coalition government of the Socialist Party and the BNG, which began to take the first steps to, say, solve all the precariousness that this centre had, for example, making an investment of four hundred and forty thousand euros to comply with the regulations of the training centres, which did not even comply with. Because of not having, I had no first-acting license, so was the situation in this center. The reality is that there is at this moment a certain consensus, at least in the Pontevedra Parliament, because there was a unanimous agreement of the plenary of the Pontevedra Parliament of 4 March 2019 where all political groups — including the People's Party — supported an initiative to demand the academic recognition of these studies, to ask the Board of Galicia to initiate these proceedings and, in addition, to make it extendable to all the students who did these studies retroactively. I would like to recall that in that plenary session the representative of the People's Party defended this issue in an enthusiastic manner, saying that he gave total support to the student in order to be able to have a approved title and vote in favour of this initiative. So, this same proposal is being put to the vote here today; we assume that the People's Party, if voted in favour of the debate of the MP, will also vote in favour of the debate of the plenary. We therefore call upon them to join this consensus and not to do what they normally do, which is to say something in Pontevedra, in the plenary session, and to oppose it now in the plenary session. Well, the BNG met with the Homologar Canteiros de Poio association—chanting and quarrying—and presented its own initiatives in this parliament and today we are also presenting a series of proposals to improve and complement the initiative brought by the En Marea Group. In particular, we also call for a point where we urge the Council of Galicia to address the Government of the State, because indeed the Government of the State has competence in this area, in the area of education. The creation of the qualifications and study plans of these degrees of vocational training would be the responsibility of the State, but the Council of Galicia has educational competences in Galicia, it has to put in place all the mechanisms and it has responsibilities to resolve this situation. In addition, we put forward a proposal that, although it is in the symbolic field, also seems very important to us. And it is that we propose — and I hope that no group has any reason to say no to this proposal — that the Greek Parliament adopts today as a resolution — and it would be a declaration of intentions of great value, I assure you that yes — to express the recognition of the tradition of canterry, for all that it has given the canterry — the canterries and the canterries too — to this country, and to the formative, informative and also international projecting work — as it has been said here — which leads to the Poio School. And we also want this resolution to show the support of this plenary, this parliament, to the Homologar Canteiros de Poio association for recognition of its studies and official academic titles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u100	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. Mr Álvarez Martínez has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u101	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Representatives of the Poio Canterry School, welcome to Parliament. Mr Bará, Mrs Torregrosa, the T-shirt is still here because we, of course, share the need for this situation to be solved; a long situation and a situation for which, in addition, Mr Bará, in that illusion that you have — which I share at times — I also hope that a unanimous agreement will be reached on the part of this Parliament to resolve this problem injustice. Because we are talking about a Poio Cantery School that provided and provided to its student a training that, if it were strictly educational, we would be seeing here the education leaders — the advisor, in particular — talk about the academic and labor excellence of the graduates of this school, taking into account their long history and their international and national recognition, of course. So we understand that the non-law proposal presented by the En Marea Group, with the self-amendment you have made now, is indeed perfectly acceptable for us. This is because, of course, the procedure for registering a centre as a professional certificate trainer, which is within the Labour Administration, has already been initiated by the Pontevedra Deputy with these two professional certificates: that of Works of Crafts and Restoration in Natural Stone and that of the elaboration of Stone. However, in fact, they do not have the corresponding academic recognition because there is no academic title, whether of medium or higher degree — or both — that allows to solve this historical problem. There is no professional family in which it would have a certain framework, which is that of extractive industries, but within it only the title of Technique in Natural Stone was created, a mid-grade title, and the professional outline that is identified for these titles is not, by far, what is acquired at the Poio Cantery School. That is to say, we are talking about a professional profile in which a machine operator is included in the manufacture of parts, a stone-working machine operator, cleaning machine, etc., but — I insist — it is substantially different from the training that students and students acquire in this school. Therefore, being substantially different, it seems absolutely reasonable and timely to develop a titration or a titration consistent with that specific training that is acquired at the Poio Cantery School. In addition, we have the legal framework, and the legal framework is clear: there is a real decree of the year 2011 which establishes the general management of the vocational training of the education system — I insist, not the work — that it corresponds to the Government, by real decree, to establish the basic aspects of the curriculum of the minimum education of the cycles, both medium and higher grade, adjusting, yes, the requirements of the National Qualifications and Vocational Training System. And here we have to say that, in addition to this legal framework, there is another one in the Organic Law 2/2006, of education, which says it corresponds to the Government of the State, after consulting with the autonomous communities, to establish the corresponding titles; I insist on this because it is very relevant: after consulting with the autonomous communities. We are therefore here in the face of a repeated attempt by the People's Party — and so it was stated in Commission 4a — in which the People's Party focuses its focus on the Pontevedra Parliament. He focuses on the Deputy of Pontevedra now that he does not govern the Deputy of Pontevedra; the reality is that for thirty-three years — to which Mr Bará referred — he did not worry at all about establishing an academic solution for the graduates of this Canterry School. Therefore, the Galician Union will have to manifest itself either sooner or later during the processing, because it is so in the law, in case one or more academic titles are decided to be established. I believe, frankly, that it would be a coherent political action, both by the proposed group and by the opposition group to this non-law proposal — because I insist: they say that it is a problem of the Pontevedra Parliament when not; it is a problem of a series of pupils and students who are being formed in the autonomous community — and it would come from our point of view — I repeat — that they would be able to reach some agreement in which, I do not know whether the Pontevedra Deputy is involved at the same time with the Council of Galicia, to address the Government of the State to establish this title. If it is a problem of the Parliament of Pontevedra, or it is a problem of the Council of Galicia, it is quite irrelevant; the question is to give the political impetus needed by all those involved — Parliament and Council of Galicia — so that this new title is established and that it is given a solution once and for all the students trained in that magnificent and brilliant school of Poio canneries. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Mr Moreira Ferro has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Mr. Moreira Ferro pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Do you want your shirt? Yes, leave her there, please. [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u103	Thank you, Mr. President. Very good morning. We also greet the representatives of the Association of the Poio School of Singers. What is true is that we miss the President of the Pontevedra Parliament as the head of the centre and who should be the one to request this approval or accreditation. We do not oppose, ladies and gentlemen, that the ministry is asked to create a qualification that can be given at school and to allow its students to obtain an official qualification, but for that reason it is necessary to ask for the creation of this qualification, and whoever has to ask for the creation of this qualification is the school's head office, which in this case is the Deputy of Pontevedra. That's what we said in that proposal that was discussed in the committee that was commented here and rejected. Why was she refused? For a number of reasons. First of all, because Junta was asked to approve the titles of the Poio School of Singers and to convert them into middle and upper cycle titles, and there is no procedure or system of approval of lessons not regulated by official titles of FP; Mr. Álvarez explained it perfectly. It would be good if the members of the Socialist Party in Pontevedra had called Mr Álvarez, who had explained perfectly what is the impossibility that today does not allow the approval of these titles. If they want to be an FP centre, they have to follow the procedure that is regulated in the regulations. There is a regulatory framework that is not within the competence of the Galician Union; the Galician Union provides FP and manages FP in Galicia, but does not exercise and does not describe that regulatory framework or the academic itinerary. There is also a confusion about the holder: as I said, the holder is the Deputy of Pontevedra and, in any case, who has to apply for such approval or such validation or accreditation will have to be the holder, which is the Deputy of Pontevedra. Neither the Galician Union nor the People's Group throw balloons out; the Union cannot decide on matters that are not of its competence. We explained this in that debate in the committee and said that a solution could be the creation of a new title. Now In Marea has presented a self-amendment, modifying its initial request, in which it proposes to request the creation of this new title. We don't object to that, we agree. I suppose In Marea will have evaluated the repercussions that this possible approval could have on the technical staff of the school, I suppose they will have evaluated it and will accept the repercussions that this entails. But our position is still that whoever has to urge is the Deputy of Pontevedra, because the People's Group respects local autonomy and, of course, we are not going to demand it or we do not think it is appropriate to urge the Council of Galicia to interfere with the powers of another administration. It will be the Deputy who freely decides what he wants to do with the School of Singers. We're not going to oppose it, if it's really what they want. But there is another reason for confusion, and they are confused — and Mr Álvarez explained it too — with vocational training for employment; they are not the same thing. Even if it's said to be vocational training, it's not the same, because vocational training for employment is going to be geared towards issuing a professional certification, which is a work accreditation, and not an academic qualification, which is the education FP. In any case, following the information provided by the School of Singers itself, the Deputy of Pontevedra, as publicly stated, has already announced that he intends to adapt to the current legislation to convert this school into a vocational training institution for employment; for that is done. Now, it's true that this was said in October last year. Today we have no knowledge that the accreditation of this centre had been requested as a vocational training centre for employment, but the President of the Parliament said in October that "the previous Government has not done anything for seventeen years and we are going to be the ones who, briefly, will receive the said approval." There's nothing asked for today. We don't know the procedures you've done, but what's true is that the Deputy won't make an approval; that's not an approval. It is also not — so we could read — what the students are asking for, because we saw in a press release on November 16, 2018 that, at a meeting with the Deputy, the Deputy explained that they were going to get a work certificate, and it says press notes that the collective qualified him as ridiculous and unambitious. So, I hope you're not doing demagogy and generating false expectations for the students and the staff of the center, because what you're going to do is not homologating with an education FP title. On the other hand, we want to value the work that is being done and to pretend on a matter: the students of this school do not have official qualifications of the education system, but it is true — as it has been said — that they are claimed for very important works around the world. And why? Because they have great prestige. They have no titration, but they have great prestige and, on many occasions, the prestige in the development of their profession is above the qualifications; and this school was conceived to regain the trade as a trade school. But, in any case, if they want to keep that proposal, we do not oppose it; yes, it must be the holder of the centre, the Deputy of Pontevedra, who insists on this approval. And we're not going to oppose the fact that Parliament is studying the possibility of homologating or believing the titles issued in the last forty years; it seems quite difficult, but we are not opposed to the study. But, look! don't do demagoxy, because here you're mixing vocational training with vocational training for employment, and they're not the same. So, clear up what you want to do, because what you're doing or you're going to do is not to approve that title. So we're proposing that amendment. If you agree, we will be prepared to approve — if it can be unanimously — this agreement to make that political impulse in which we agree.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u104	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u105	But things have to be clarified as they are. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u106	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Torregrosa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I want to thank the voices of the Socialist Group and the BNG for sharing this so obvious vision of what is due and what should not be done when one is in command of a government of a country. I mean, I don't think I'm taking on the responsibilities that everyone has is the worst that can be done. Misleading people... [[Murmurs.]] I mean, if your answer is so clear and you have so clear your skills, why weren't you so clear in 2007, when Mr. Núñez Feijóo was visiting the School of Singers? Why were they not so clear last December 2018 when they met with the Poio Singer Association? Because now they're so clear when they come under pressure, but it turns out that at the time they were unable to find the arguments to say no. And why not? Because FP is the competence, in educational matters, of the Galician Union, and that has nothing to do with the ownership of the centre, whether private or public. I mean, the Deputy has neither academic competences nor knowledge nor any educational department — which I know — to be able to have enough information on the procedures that must be done. You can't always throw balloons out and say that it's everyone else's fault and that the others are the ones who have to solve their problems. That's why they're in a government, whether they want it or not. So, I insist: I don't think it's a single topic either of the Galician Union, but it has to be said that the Pontevedra Parliament has only been in the hands of the Socialist Party and the BNG for three years and they've done something. You've been all the rest of your time doing nothing. We're talking about a degree and an educational centre that has been formed from an educational administration, from the Ministry of Culture itself, which is currently managed by the Deputies. [[Murmurs.]] You can't say it's not your responsibility. With regard to amendments, I want to say that we tabled a self-amendment in relation to the agreement we had already reached in the Education Committee and, returning to the subject, we will not accept that you do not accept that it is your responsibility and that they vote the ball back to the Deputy of Pontevedra. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u108	Thank you. Please, Mrs. Torregrosa, the other amendments I give you for the fact that I accept them. Do the other amendments accept them, BNG and PSOE? [[Mrs. Torregrosa Sanñudo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. [[Mr. Torregrosa Sanñado: Yes.]] Next proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Luisa Pierres López and two other Members, on the launching by the Government of Galicia of a procedure for the assessment of the architectural quality of the buildings affected by Articles 24 and 39 of Law 2/2016, of the ground of Galicia, who wish to obtain the exceptional fulfilment of the special generic conditions applicable to them
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u109	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u110	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. First of all, I would like to thank the representatives of the Official College of Architects of Galicia today, from the rostrum. There are initiatives in this chamber that can deal with more or less tangible and more or less quantifiable issues, but what we bring to the debate today is essentially whether Galicia and this government are at the moment of maturity enough to allow favoring architectural quality as an end, and not as much as an anecdotal or as a chance, which sometimes happens; deciding whether it is the Government who is going to take further steps to allow Galicia to aspire to acknowledge excellence, not only in research, not only in entrepreneurship, education or even gastronomy, but also — why not? — in architecture, and to do so, of course, from the hand of the landscape and territory, from all over the territory. It's also the time to bet and not give away neither the capabilities, professionalism and sensitivity of so many and so many professionals of architecture, but also many Greeks and Greeks; if you don't deny any of them the possibility of betting by an architecture of quality, extraordinary and exceptional; to allow them, at least, to be listened to and valued, something that doesn't happen today, because there is no channel or mode. I explain why: because Law 2/2016, of February 10, of Galician soil, contemplates the concept — it is true — of architectural quality, and does so in two of its articles. On the one hand, in Article 24, paragraph 7, of the scheme and building conditions in the rural core soil, when it says that "the new buildings that are intended to be located in the traditional rural nuclei will identify with the characteristics of the place and will be directed towards consolidating the existing rural plot." And he says they have to meet the following conditions: "The typological, aesthetic and constructive characteristics and materials, the colors and the finishes," which must be "in accord with the rural landscape and traditional constructions of the settlement," but he says, "No prejudice to any other proposals that are justified by their architectural quality." Similarly, Article 39 is collected for constructions in the rustic soil. But these articles, actually, don't find a practical application soon. Because, in spite of that drafting — I must acknowledge — especially open to the interpretation of these articles, at the time of applying them, it is municipal planning that is imposed, because in them are described those finished, those materials, those forms and even those typologies, and the only way to provide different solutions is to justify that quality different from the work; but that possibility of exceptioning some of those previous conditions simply does not exist. Municipal architects and architects understand, from their powers, that they cannot give unipersonally the architectural quality to some works themselves and others not. They understand that, as in the councils that have conformed, for example, to the Heritage services, there should also be an evaluating commission or any other mechanism to issue reports of exceptionality to compliance at any point or at all points of those standards and based, of course, on the particular quality of architectural works. This is a common problem, much more common than we think. They are often the promoters who often don't understand how their proposals, which is true that they are often more careful and detailed than the average architectures, are discarded above others who, by meeting the standards reflected in the standards, are, however, bad examples of architecture built. It's incomprehensible as the lack of architectural quality of a dwelling, for example, nobody discusses it, whenever they assume a color, material and morphology; and yet the extraordinary quality seems to be something that is rejected as a problem to be avoided. And here is the main problem: the rejection of good architecture, which lies in the extended idea that what is different, which does not follow the established standard, must be, by definition, worse. And if we have this, however, already disassembled in many other matters of our lives, why does it cost us so much to understand it in the world of architecture? We understand that the architectural quality of a dwelling is not in use, for example, an Arab roof on its roof, nor is it in using stone on its walls or wood on its windows, or in using hollows on the facade with certain proportions and dimensions. The architectural quality goes further, far beyond the normative recipes, is the set of qualities; and yes, the result can, in this case, change factors. If you read the text of this initiative, you began by talking about the concept of quality; quality as a set of properties inherent to something that allows you to judge its value and also to compare it with any other of its own species. In fact, for the historian and critic of architecture William Curtis, the architecture of quality is closely linked to dialogue with society and with the urban context, in a physical sense, and to the iconography of the city. The context is therefore not only physical and measurable; it has much to do with the interpretation of it, and the interpretations are precisely the opportunities to generate rereads of the already known one. To understand this better: it is not intended with this proposal that all architectures are removed or away from normative rigor, but those that bet on providing new interpretations of materials, volumes or compositions have at least an opportunity to be developed allowing their value to be judged before. [[Applause]] The reality is that in German urbanism too much regulation and regulation has led to an abuse of reproduction which is frankly worrying. And beyond that debate that would give us for many more hours of discussion, the question I think is clear: what leads us, in architecture, to culturally reject the exceptional and, however, to embrace the conventional and the common? The answer is clear: I think it is comfort and, in this case, administrative comfort. Standardizing allows us to develop more effective and more sustainable control systems, but taking on diversity means developing management tools also in urban planning, and that's an effort that only advanced societies are willing to take on. And let's go back to the first question: is Galicia really prepared to take a step forward and bet on favoring the architectural quality of its architecture? From the Socialist Group we think that yes, of course, Galicia deserves the opportunity to enrich its heritage, not only in urban soils, but also in those architectures that are used in rustic soils or rural nuclei. And I give them examples that should make us all think: think, for example, in the Nordic countries and imagine the traditional architectures of these areas, as they naturally live with the most contemporary and the most current ones. Some of them may have sloppy blankets and others may have flat blankets, but when we see them, we fully recognize the country. They're harmonious landscapes because they get the most important, that's to identify with the territory, with culture and with people. Some are even at the foot of lakes and, even so, at the limits, integrate in an extraordinary and unaffected way into the landscape. They are different dwellings, both traditional and current, but both respond to the technical possibilities of each moment and maintain the fundamental, which is the essence of Scandinavian architecture. In Galicia there are many examples of architecture that, today, fifty to sixty years later, if built, would be unworkable by urban or aesthetic issues, by the regulations that would affect its kind of soil today. We speak of dwellings such as Domínguez in Poio, Alejandro de la Sota, and the house of Roiba, of Vázquez Molezún, in Bueu. In their day they were absolutely innovative, and it was, among other things, because of how they relate to their place: one, despite being on the sea, integrating and mingling with the coastal boundary, and the other standing above and below the ground, taking advantage of the best of every situation. Today they are both a reference to their moment and reason for study and even the inspiration of modern architecture. If we do not favour today that these special architectures — often with little entity — can be given, we will hardly be favouring a future heritage of quality and those other models to look at and learn from. We can't keep thinking that all contemporarys will be bad and that only with the mimetic imitation of old models can we ensure a better Galicia. In a context where laws, such as the recent urban rehabilitation, are even adopted, where there are also exceptional architectures that — if they — are already in themselves heritage, are opened — I think — the ideal time to reflect on this concept in all architectures, and thus improve the general quality of it; so that what is not rehabilitation, which is the highest percentage of current performances in the territory of Galicia, can in any case develop with the highest standards of construction, but also architectural; so that living that contemplates solutions like a garden deck may also fit; or that in a land like ours, which has grey skies, grey clouds and waters that become gray by gray clouds, it is not prevented from using a material like the five, probably the most suited to the color of our Galician landscape. If we think defining architectural quality is a hard task, let's not forget that Galicia has experts from the architecture sector, professional schools and other collectives or institutions that can participate in this assessment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u111	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u112	...the conditions of architectural quality that give a building an added value — it is finished — as was said before — with the evaluation of the heritage through the territorial councils of the Cultural Heritage, the Technical Commission of Archaeology or the Santiago Road Advisory Council. I ask all groups of heights of look and the indispensable reflection for the importance of favoring that added value also in the Galician architecture. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u114	The reason for this initiative is to establish a procedure to assess the architectural quality of buildings which would like to obtain a kind of exceptionality with respect to compliance with the regulations of the Land Law, Articles 24 to 39. They will understand that it is a matter — we can say — of watermark, of a sort of parliamentary alchemy, because it would, at best, deserve a commission of study; I do not, of course, consider myself capable of making a decision in this regard. I believe that when it comes to issues such as architectural quality and exceptionality with respect to the norm, we should actually set common criteria, because each of us can have his own opinion on architectural quality or how he sees rural development and rural development. So it's a very specialized issue and an issue, of course, of course, important, which is also up-to-date about the decisions that technicians and techniques have to make in the municipalities and which deserves a solution; at least one study and a search for possible alternatives. Because the law — by the way, a law that has worsened in these aspects what was established in LOUG — leaves this door open to exceptionality when it says that traditional typologies must be maintained in this type of soil, but without prejudice to any other proposals that are justified by its architectural quality; this is the key. And who decides this? Who decides what architectural quality is? Well, that's what we have to solve. We understand that it has to be a technical commission; as there are advisory committees that intervene in matters that have to do with, for example, heritage issues, there can also be advisory technical committees that set out general criteria and common criteria, because one cannot be left to the interpretation only of municipal technicians, because each municipal technician can make an interpretation different from what is meant by architectural quality. In addition, there is a field of work, which is that of the landscape and that of the landscape guidelines, and there are advisory commissions on landscape and also the landscape guides, which could shed light on what solutions can be given to this issue from the point of departure that we have to have a vision — for ourselves — of what is the evolution of landscape and rural nuclei, and also where it is different what are traditional nuclei of other types of nuclei. But the reality is that in our rural landscape, in our rural landscape, we see evolution in architectural matters, where there are traditional landscapes and traditional nuclei, modern nuclei and constructions -- let's say -- more contemporary. In the evolution of the last forty or fifty years, we've seen that there has been everything, and I suppose what is being built in that "all" is being built also with architectural projects of professionals who supposedly say that their constructions have quality or that they respond to the parameters of what people want to do these constructions. But, really, here we see things, from a subjective opinion, whose aesthetic quality and architectural quality leaves much to be desired. We can say that, in many ways, what has been built in the last forty or fifty years, also as a result of trends related to emigration and import of foreign models, is a true pastiche, there is a mix of solutions of the most varied. But I think we need to have an open look at contemporary solutions and contemporary constructions, because in the end collective heritage is made over time, also in historical centers, with nearers throughout history. Because what we are seeing today from the cathedral of Santiago is the result of demolishing, destroying an earlier construction, which was a Romanesque cathedral; and this can be applied to each of the historical centers of the country, which were the object of evolution from the destruction, reinterpretation and the new construction of the territory. Of course, this can't be the excuse to accept everything, but at least to open a debate and to seek advice and a solution — let's say — that sets the minimum common denominator to be able to fix this exceptionality justified by architectural quality. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u115	Thank you, Mr Bará. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Torregrosa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, it has to be said that it's a very complex subject. Personally, I can fully agree in the essence that the excessive limitation of the parameters referred to in architectural quality and in relation to the use of colors, materials and forms can impoverish wealth and variety, and they are of difficult value. That is to say, they do not prevent the construction of horrendous buildings that are suitable for that valuation that today is expensive to 100 percent of the new work. If what is intended for this initiative is to expose the value of knowledge and aesthetic, historical and artistic training in order to carry out a new classification of the new work, it seems to me to be an excellent proposal. But I think there's a risk of opening a Pandora's box when we have a new legislation on housing on the table, the new Rehabilitation Act, which is more than putting in value the architectural heritage in rural areas, completely overlooks it. It seems to me a truly delicate and complex subject of legitimately managed properly. I mean with this, that I personally disagree that the moment is the right one and that, even though the goal is to improve the overall quality of architecture in rural areas, the result is what will eventually remain. Precisely because users don't know the qualities to be valued in a building, let alone if we talk about the residential area, I don't see how it's not through proper formation and dissemination of the added value that you may have included elements of special architectural interest, establishing how and how you can re-evaluate very subtle aspects; if you're in a kind of legislative period characterized — from my point of view — by a clear insensitivity in the policies of the Galician Union to protect the existing architectural heritage, whether it's the type of it, obligating both the advice of specialists and the Galician Culture Council itself. That's why I understand you can open a path, but I doubt it's the right time. What procedure and who will value criteria is what we're most concerned about, and I don't think it's an excessively conservative valuation, given the results. Well, we can talk about the examples that already exist, we can talk about the feism, we can talk about the lack of planning and the problem of understanding about the buildings, the existing and the new; we think it's complicated. Although there seems to be a desire to have at least a training at the level of the municipalities with regard, for example, to the guide of colors and materials or, for example, to the Landscape Pact to include in the municipal basic plan, or some initiatives in this direction, it does not seem sufficient to us to launch an initiative ahead. In this respect we agree with Mr Bará that it is not only a matter of having specialists in Galicia — of course we do have them — but of what specific weight these specialists have within the policies of the Council of Galicia. I am also in favour of a specific study commission or a technical commission to make an assessment; that is, of course, a previous study, a cataloguing of the type of housing that exists right now in those spaces, a general cataloguing of the residential housing that exists in Galicia, not only for historical time, but also for styles, and that we can have a prior information to be able to issue a coherent value trial. Because, first of all, in order to appreciate the exceptional nature of a work, we must have ensured that the exceptional does not become a norm. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Torregrosa. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Castilian.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u118	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Mr. Castineira Broz shows you a document to the members of the House.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is the Law of the ground. In his explanatory statement, in point 2, he clearly states that one of the basic principles inspiring this law is municipal autonomy. I think that's the first thing to know. How are we going to study something that is municipal competence from this parliament? I'm asking. I think we'd be putting ourselves directly into municipal competences. I think that's the first thing to do. Therefore, allow me, Mrs Torregrosa and Mr Bará, who, with that technical commission, possibly... to believe it in the councils or to do so — that I think you would in that sense — may be; but, of course, from here I understand not. Mrs. Pierres, you said it was time to know if this government is in the degree of maturity to recognize architectural quality. I think so. Let us see if this government and the People's Group that supports it are in the degree of maturity that we have been able to draw up, together with all the Greeks and Greeks — with immense participation in that law, even with a previous study commission — a Law of the ground — which, of course, you all voted against — which contemplates, for the first time — if I am not mistaken — in a law of Galician soil, the possibility of valuing the architectural quality of buildings. [[Applause]] Because, look : I think no one doubt it would be a monumental mistake not to give permission to the Marqués de Riscal hotel of Frank Gehry in Rioxa. [[Mr. Castineira Broz shows you a photograph of the members of the House.]] I don't think anyone would doubt it, and I think we shared there and we agreed with Mrs. Pierres and me. So we can't put doors to creativity and, of course, this group won't. And there they can be safe; therefore, that law. But we must also take into account, of course, autonomy and respect for municipal autonomy. Town Councils and municipal technicians are not underage; they are technicians on equal terms than the technicians of the Union, each with their competences, but on equal terms. Local administrations are not subordinated to the Council of Galicia; each has its own competences, but on equal terms, on the same level. Of course, those who have seen the local administration feel this way, and of course, I will not allow, within my capabilities, the local administration to be subject to self-government. That's why, Mrs. Pierres, when you say the board rules: no, if the board regulates or looks for a procedure, it's going to be in municipal jurisdictions, and we're not going to allow that. Now, we can look for a solution and we can work to find a solution, because it's a fact that it's a great possibility that if you open yourself with those parts or those specifications of architectural quality and those exceptionalities in rural areas and in rustic soil and therefore it would be a pity and a pity to lose those possibilities; yes, logically, they have to be with a contrasted and recognized quality. But who has to look for those systems? The local administration itself, because it's the competent one, because anyone who can license in a rural nucleus or in a rustic soil, except for limited exceptionalities, is the municipalities. So what can we do from here? What I would tell you is that, at the most, what we can do is try to make an amendment in your voice to be able to urge — since we cannot address ourselves to the Fegamp or the municipalities directly — to join together so that you can somehow value this possibility that allows the law and they do not lose that possibility; that if you look for the system that they understand — because we are not going to put ourselves in the way they have to regulate it — well through the Fegamp, well from the deputies, well in clusters of municipalities. There are municipalities like Vigo's that I'm sure he already solves it alone, but anyway, each one will seek, he has his own autonomy and, in that sense, he can do it; or like those of the big cities, that perhaps they themselves have sufficient technicians to create that commission and value it. We can't get in; but they do take into account the possibility that the law gives them and those two articles, the 24th and the 39th, so that the possibilities of architectural design and creativity are not lost. In this, if we are, and can look for a formula -- if it seems good to you -- to try to reach a possible consensus to achieve that formula, by urging, through the Board -- for we cannot -- the municipalities to look for a formula to put into practice and, logically, to allow -- if well they have autonomy for municipal technicians, and I can understand, as a municipal technician, the loneliness of a technician by evaluating for themselves the architectural quality of a project -- to look for a line that marks that. Although, as I say, care must be taken, because laying doors to the dog is difficult. Look: if we trusted the opinions of each moment, the Milà house would not be built, for example.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u119	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u120	But all this also means that you can't build blankets anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u121	Thank you. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u122	Thank you, President. Mr. Castineira, thank you at least for that discrepancy and for that search, in any case, for a way out of this problem. Mrs. Torregrosa, I understand that you may be afraid of opening these gates — as Mr. Castineira said — but I would like you to reflect. You yourself have done it by saying that, curiously, today, that one works for quality and those architectures that are assumed by colors, materials and shapes are not always of quality; one question does not lead to the other. So I think that this fear that's actually presented to you is already happening, and not giving out that quality, precisely when things want to do well, it seems to me to be a start-up mistake. I'll give you an example: a tortilla is made with eggs and potatoes, but if we regulate the tortilla and forbid it also if you introduce mushrooms or if you introduce peppers, we'll probably lose something very important of our gastronomy. I don't think you can put cancels, precisely, to that creativity, either in gastronomy or architecture. [[Applause]] The Galician Board itself, in addition, since there are two calls, is promoting the Galician Architecture and Rehabilitation Awards, and on its presentation website it already speaks of the goal of prizes as the impetus and excellence of our architecture and rehabilitation recognizing the quality of buildings. What's wrong? That these are architectures that are, in the end, exceptional, that count with the fingers of the hand; that's the pity. But in addition, that initiative collects other things that have been done for years, such as the COAG awards, which have already been published for eighteen years; also the Great Area Awards, from southern Galicia; and also the Juana de Vega awards or the Gomez Román awards. Everyone, in fact, rewards excellence, quality and contributions that start not only from large buildings, but also from small architectures, and these are the ones that add up and the ones that give examples for others to come back too. From our group we have made it clear that this impulse to the excellence of our architecture and rehabilitation and that recognition, in addition, to the quality that they seek the very Architecture Awards of the Galician Union cannot be left in anecdotes. We must promote it and we must make it easier and at least find ways to justify it. They think that, in addition to current regulations, such architecture as the facade of Santiago's own cathedral — as Mr. Castineira said — would not be feasible; the architecture of Antonio Palacios in Porriño would not be feasible, nor that of Alejandro de la Sota, nor that of Vázquez Molezún. We don't think we have to recognize the quality just tied, probably, to the prestige of the professionals behind it, but to give the promoters and the most unknown architects the opportunity to also contribute their architecture, if they have enough quality to do so. I believe that, since this quality justification is not being given right now — because there is no channel, and it is also going to be a problem and it is working on many projects in Galicia — we must, in any case, facilitate or clarify whose competence is, indeed, to issue the report or criterion. In addition, it must be made clear that this is already happening with the councils of Heritage, which are actually already working in that sense when there is a discrepancy in a Heritage service or when there is a need for several councils, which issue this report among several experts. The same can happen to works of architecture.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u123	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u124	Let's do this and let's not allow it to survive for longer in the limbo of ineffective architectural quality. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the requirements of conditions for the granting of the regular public road passenger transport service and the development of a new public road transport plan
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u126	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled. [[G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Luís Manuel Álvarez Martínez, through his spokesperson and in the light of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this proposal:Amendment of amendment.The resolution must be replaced by the following text:"The Parliament of Galicia urges the Government of Galicia to commit itself, in the event that, as a result of a possible judicial ruling, it is necessary to paralyse the development of the Government of Galicia's Public Transport Plan or any or all contracts which form the plan are economically inadmissible, it will defend the maintenance of jobs under conditions which do not assume the minimum of labour rights and remuneration of workers who are affected.]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u127	To formulate the non-law proposition Mr. Bará has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u128	Good morning. Let's talk again about public transport today. The advisor, who is not present, says that we do not bring any initiatives that speak of the competences of the Union. We are going to talk about public transport, the public transport plan and the contracts that are now being processed. We must begin by saying that the situation we are living in is the result of the wrong decisions of the Galician Union since 2009, when it has decided that irregular extension of public transport contracts against European legislation. He's been doing nothing for seven years, sweeping beneath the carpet, with the ostrich's strategy, and then, in 2016, he met with a Supreme Court ruling that required him to act, to make decisions. And from there, it was an unbridled career for trying to meet the deadlines, a career of which we are seeing the consequences, with two laws in less than two years, on a run forward which, in our understanding, can have serious consequences in the future, because if you are showing the lack of participation, the lack of transparency, of having time — more than nothing — enough to channel that participation and those agreements. We also see legal insecurity in the new contracts and also in the fact that contracts that were in force and those decisions were taken; imagine what could happen if a favourable resolution was made to these demands of companies. Then we also see that there is a lot of propaganda, for example, when we talk about the great novelty of the integration of regular transport and school lines, or of transport to demand, fake transport to demand, actually. Because what you are selling now as a great novelty already existed with TES+BUS for some areas of the territory, not in a generalized manner, because this system cannot work and it is not, of course, transport to demand, it is, in any case, a transport subject to certain lines that match the school lines; of course, in which they have not yet made a contract for the management of this service because they were left desert, and now they are processing another as a reserved contract, which we consider to be a reserved contract, which is clear. The reason for all of this — we can say — is that it is becoming the processing of the plan and also the terms of the contracts are the poor field studies, as it has also been pointed out in the 2017 contracts, carried out by paratroopers, companies that do not know the territory, consulting companies loved by the Board of Galicia that have made — I say — a real defeat, which then had to be amended in the period of allegations and, above all, amended once the contracts were laid down and given the good visa to the companies to change them and to recover the previous lines. Because that was a waste of money: people were very stubborn, the municipalities protesting, the people picking up signatures... and, in the end, what they did was recover the old services; that is, they did the adjudication of some lines and then they recovered the ones that were before. The underlying problem of all of this is that we have a General Mobility Directorate that has no direction and no mobility. He has no direction, because in practice he's privatized: the General Directorate of Mobility, in practice, he's given a concession to a private consulting firm and a number of other consulting companies to do his job, to run the board. And he doesn't have mobility because he's slowing down, at the dead end; well, now he's pretty fast, because there they shouldn't turn off the lights at night to try to solve all the petate they've mounted. But look: you've helped them with EUR 2.4 million in the development of the plan to different companies; then there was another company in charge of coordination, and they have another consulting company. The contracts were formalised in July and, after three months, the Board of Trustees approved the plan. This is miraculous: that they are able to do in three months six different lots, six contracted companies, a plan of these characteristics. Well, curiously, it took fifty days for them to publish it; perhaps they were floundered and held there over all those weeks. The underlying problem, as we've already said in the advisor's appearance, is that this really isn't a plan; this is an attempt to solve the situation, to move forward, to look for a way out, but it's not a real public transport plan, of course, nor of public road transport, because part of a reality that is an outdated reality: the reality of the 20th century, of a series of lines that have no relation to the dispersion of the population and the characteristics of our territory. Therefore, it is a failed model and of the last century, of those concessions that have been granted to Junta over the decades. Now we're in the process of dealing with those hundred contracts that they want to solve before August and that were the subject of criticism and resources by both union and employers' organizations. Interestingly, all parties here agree to report serious cases and shortcomings of these contracts. For example, trade union organisations, all of them — I refer to what the IGC says in this case, but the rest agree on the basis of this argument — speak of a certain risk of lowering the working and salary conditions of the staff, because the cost estimates made by the consultancy in those prayers are not enough to cover wages; only in the first year, in one of these contracts, the deficits amount to 600,000 euros, and the unemployment rates set a number of jobs below the current one, with which the staff subrogation could not be made. They do a case-by-case analysis in each of the contracts. Well, located at this point, they also make a warning that it can happen the same thing that happened on their day with ambulance contracts. We have just seen how now, after pressure from a union strike and also from the dealership's pressure, that he took a contract very low and that he was in a condition of failing to meet the agreement of the sector and increasingly reducing labour conditions and wage rights, at the end of Galician union, there was no remedy left but to increase the bid price of that contract by 50 percent. So what the union entities say is that it can happen here, and you don't want to know. Well, the Administrative Court of Public Procurement decided at the end of April to paralyze this process; then, it is true, it has given it a good visa and allowed for continuity in processing. In these days it is in the process of opening the offers of companies, which logically are presented because they want to work, even if they have to accept some really Leonine conditions that will have an impact on the staff, the workers and the workers. And here we are also seeing that there is a process — which we have already announced on its day — of partial concentration that will end with that kind of bus-diversity that was in the territory, small and medium-sized enterprises located throughout the territory that did a social service, a public service, a service that is also economical of job creation, employment stability and territorial deployment, and doing many more services than the regular transport lines, which we will see if these large companies are doing that can be tax collectors of these contracts. Because the truth is, as we know, in half of those hundred contracts, about, there's only one offer, and this is something that's going to mean. Here what has been, over the course of this time, is opening the door precisely to the entry of these large businesses in the sector, and at the same time there are reasonable doubts and uncertainty about the adjudications and their viability, about the fulfilment of labour and wage conditions and about the maintenance of jobs, as I said before. And then there's another thing: we're on hold of the new bids, because they're going out in June. When will these new tenders be issued before the end of the year? Because, of course, as I said before, now to the General Directorate of Mobility, if we had to put the title of a film, it would be on the edge of a nerve attack, with all the handkerchief they have there to solve. That is why the BNG brings here a proposal for an agreement which seeks to overcome this framework, this maraism and this lack of a global solution with a vision of the future. That's why we propose, firstly, to reformulate the nails to ensure that jobs are maintained and that wage and labour conditions are maintained. For us this is a priority, because we must also fulfil our own commitments made by the administration: the conventions and the staff subrogation, and we understand that it is not guaranteed by these demands. And then, what seems most important to us, with a vision of long lights, an ambitious and long-term vision, to open up the process of study, analysis and negotiation to develop a real public road transport plan that is, in addition, framed in a strategy or a plan of sustainable mobility, which is something that this country needs as water of May or June or August. Because there's a state mobility strategy and we don't have it here. We must make a law; you yourself promised it in your electoral program and you didn't do it, a law of sustainable mobility. We have to do this master plan and we have to build a public transport model that is a model that includes all modes of transport, basically also...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u129	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u130	...the railway and the surrounding railway, and that it is a model that responds to the needs of the 21st century, a sustainable model from a social, economic and, of course, from an ecological point of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u131	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, let's talk again about the Galician Public Transport Plan, and we'll talk again about the adjudication process after the preparation of the conditions. I want to leave it to the Socialist Parliamentary Group for the whole development of this plan to be the workers, and I say this because when we question the viability of this plan it turns out that on the part of the People's Party we were told that we took the business approach, that we came to defend companies; and not only the workers, but also a quality and appropriate public transport service to the reality of our autonomous community. But let's see what the law says: the law says that, in the service concession contracts, the processing of the file will precede the completion and approval of a feasibility study of them or, in their case, a study of economic and financial viability, which will be binding on the assumptions in which it concludes in the impossibility of the project. Well, what's the reality of the Infrastructure and Mobility Council right now? The reality is that it has an endorsement of the Galician Administrative Tribunal for Public Procurement and, therefore, it can be understood that, from a government point of view, the situation in which this project is located is correct. I mean, not only did I get the council, but this court, that there's no reason to suppose these projects aren't economically-financially viable. It is true that the assumption of risk is an element that is inherent in the granting of service and that it is collected both in European legislation and in Spanish legislation, but it is an attributable risk that you have to bear the concessionaire related to the risk of insolvency of the debtors, with an imbalance between supply and demand, with market uncertainty and even with income not covering operating costs, but, of course, starting from a proper dimension of the economic and financial studies of that project. The fact is that the administration has called for an invitation to tender in which it is not well explained — as we have said, I believe that all parliamentary groups of the opposition — and, much less, if these economic studies are justified. They are not — they seem — adequate calculations as to the needs of human and material resources — to which Mr Bará referred — the estimates of their costs or the justification of the values given to them at variable costs. We understand — and thus not only the employer, but the unions — that there are splits, almost all, that are seriously undervalued, and even the relationship with the calculation budgets reveals in the prayers that there are discrepancies with the reality of exploitation. As for staff costs, all projects seem to be underdeveloped, although that's the most expensive game. The main factor that applied to the Council, or rather said, that company in charge of drafting the operating projects, is that theory that staff costs are accounted only for by the percentage that bus travel times represent on the working day, which is an argument from all the point of view unacceptable, because it turns out that the time for vehicle maintenance is not calculated, the waiting time between services, which is either part of the worker's working day, or the time that is regulated by law between vehicles being collected and left, which is also part of the worker's working day. And so, I think we're going to find ourselves in a situation -- which Mr Bará referred to and referred to by the opposition groups -- very similar to what happened with the health transport; that is, big companies are going to be able to bear the losses that involve contracts during their early years of vigency, and then they're going to put administration in a situation where they necessarily have to renegotiate those operating costs, after, of course, sweep — as has already been said — a very important amount of small enterprises in this autonomous community. So, from our point of view — and that is why we are presenting the amendment known to parliamentary groups — there are two possible scenarios: one, which, by means of a possible court ruling, paralyzes the development of contracts — a litigation-administrative — or perhaps some, many or all projects are found to be economically unfeasible. So, as — I insist — what concerns this parliamentary group is the workers, we have tabled this amendment, which says that the Government is urged to commit itself, in the event that one of these scenarios are given, to defend the maintenance of jobs in conditions that do not undercut the minimum of the labour and remuneration rights of workers who may be affected; that is, to guarantee, first and foremost, the quality and safety of jobs, which we understand are seriously threatened by this plan. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u133	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u134	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. We are faced with another episode more than the aim of the Galician Union with the Road Transport Plan, another one that shows the inability of the Union on this issue and another one of the chained advisors without wanting to work collectively in the search of solutions. The history of what happened in recent years with the Transport Plan is truly worrying to Galicia, such an incapacity with such a matter of such importance to our country that it becomes a real drama. We have said other times that putting in place a road transport plan is obviously complex, it has a lot of complexity and therefore we need a lot of dialogue with all the actors involved: municipalities, workers, companies or ANPA, which should be part of a transport table to find the best road transport to Galicia. But the Galician Union all this time doesn't want to work with anyone at all and prefers the power point strategies and charges to suit other communities, and so it's polishing her hair. Possibly, the most serious of all this disincentive is not the unfavorable judicial processes at the Galician Union, and it is not possibly the most terrible ridiculous thing the Infrastructure Council has done with everything it has to do with the Transport Plan, nor are it the continuous delays and unfulfillable promises of what seems to be the story of never ending. For us, the most serious thing is the disillusionment and the lack of interest in such a transcendent issue for our future as a country, the lack of ambition, assuming this issue as a further process to be carried out, and the lack of vision for the future and for the project of a country, which seems to reduce this issue only by reducing services, transferring precariousness to the sector and fulfilling its commitments with friendly companies. The problem of lack of a future project for us is the most discouraging. Because, when we talk about public transport, we talk about inciting and acting in many fundamental fields to which the Galician Union is giving up. We're talking about turning the course of the environmental crisis and fighting climate change, where public road transport is fundamental, and therefore it needs to be stimulated and quality service launched. We're talking about defending the right to mobility and defending a decent life for all, even in rural areas. We're talking about equality, because if it depends on where you live or on the economic situation, whether you're able to move or not, we're no longer talking about a right. And we're also talking about addressing the problem of road safety, because public transport is also an ally against the problem that we're living in Galicia with the increase in sinequality and mortality on the Greek road network. There are a lot of things that are at stake when we decide on the type of public road transport, and that's what we're talking about. The public transport we have seen defending the right to mobility, to quality of life in rural areas, to equality and to quality services regardless of where they live and the current account, and to that end we need to expand the supply and not reduce it and defend public and social transport. The public transport we stand for is a fundamental ally against climate change, and for that we need to dynamize public transport and not diminish it, as the Galician Union intends to do. And the public transport we defend is an ally against road sinisterity. So we can give you all the rounds we want, but at the bottom of the discussion there are two models: a model that bets on public transport, on the value of public transport and on its benefits, and another that doesn't bet on it and that sees it as a mere service to favor certain companies. So we're going to support this LNP, which goes on the line of what we've been defending from the very first moment with everything that has to do with the Road Transport Plan, which is that a dialogue table is being set up to solve this problem and to put in place the best public transport for Galicia. For me, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u135	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u136	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Mr Bará, the BNG registers this initiative on June 3, ten days after the Administrative Tribunal for Public Procurement of the Autonomous Community of Galicia had rejected all the remedies brought by the transport federations; information which is not included for anything in its exhibition text and which is obvious in a manner of interest, because it gives the Board the reason once again. But in addition, you also see something else and they don't explain it; I already explained it: the Board did not oppose this precautionary suspension and did not claim to give the highest legal guarantee to the proceedings and to guarantee the tenderers. So we are, frankly, before a court decision which, in addition, comes about another of the year 2017 of the Central Administrative Court, which was similar and which also came to give the reason to the Council of Galicia. We are therefore faced with a procedure with total and full legal guarantees that avoid insecurity on the part of tenderers. But in addition, this process is also participatory and transparent. I don't know why it bothers you that Junta picks up the allegations and modifies things in the processes that result from those allegations; that's transparency and public participation; that's to build these prayers with the help of everyone. But, of course, he's still, in an interesting way, saying things that aren't right; he says it's a plan that's not economically balanced. Look: these hundreds of contracts are going to have an increase of nearly five hundred million euros of public funds for some contracts; with private participation, of 600 million euros of money mobilization, of 16% more than the previous contracts of 2017, also the result of these negotiations. By the tattoo, look: if in 2017 and now companies are presented, why? Because they are really possible contracts, they are — as the Court of Appeal also said — reasonably justified economic accounts and, in addition, they put 16 percent more — I say — to bring nearly 600 million to these contracts in a global way. But look: not only did companies participate in 2017 when you said the same thing, but, in addition, most of them paid off in competitions. If they were going so cheaply... because I, without knowing... I'm also sure there's going to be going down here too. But there are one hundred and fifty offers for those hundred contests; that is, there are companies involved, and many — not just big ones — in making these contests. And ahead and guess - and I'm not guessing - that there'll also be low economics, because they're profitable. Besides, people are happy, that's what hurts them. What hurts them is that people now have new modalities, with transport to demand and shared transport, which are working, which are increasing the use of public transport in Galicia — in data last year — and that, as it is increasing, they also generate new income and new profitability. This is what works: the greatest use also makes those lines more profitable. Therefore, it is not true that we are faced with contracts that are not properly justified and, in fact, as companies have already presented themselves, we will see as sure that there are low economics. On the other hand, he also says something else that's not true either: that the working conditions get worse; that's not true. But look: in 2017 there was an agreement, with social clauses that were referenced at national level, with two of the majority unions: UXT and Workers' Commissions; but this year, in March, there was again such agreement not only with UXT and Workers' Commissions in those social clauses, but even with the IGC, Mr Bará, until the IGC! Then, after reaching an agreement and signing an agreement with the Board, they presented resources. Isn't it because we were in elections and some orders had to be carried out? I ask, uh, I ask, just by chance. When the elections are not signed an agreement with the social expenses and when the elections arrive, perhaps other things happen. [[Murmurs.]] But in any case, I believe that what is being guaranteed is that the Greeks will continue to have quality transport and that they are happy; that this transport plan, which is unfortunately weighing them down, is improving the use of public transport, which is functioning properly, which is improving service especially in rural areas, which is increasing services especially in these rural areas and the type of versatility in transport, and which follows its process. You'll go on; it's bad that you don't listen to it, not a day without public transport, that's what you want, that we stop it. They've been asking for it a year ago and now they're asking for public transportation to stop. What we have to do is stop standing on the side of the employer. We saw yesterday that the BNG defended the Constitution, we rejoice; today also the employer. You're still improving your line of work. What you've got to do is get aside -- as I've told you in the last three years that we've been talking about the transport plan -- of general interest, because this is a matter of country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u137	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u138	Mr. Fernández Prado, I had a workmate, a political militia partner and an example for me, Lois Obelleiro, who said that BNG is a polyhedron of sensibilities. You have a very schematic view of what the BNG is. BNG is much more than you think and what you said here, fortunately for this country. We're very proud of that. [[Applause]] Look at the BNG that we have the ability, which you do not have, to defend these small and medium-sized enterprises from our economic fabric, from our rural, our country, which are being abandoned to their fate by the People's Party, which is defending the interests of the large multinational companies who want to come here as yachts to appropriate these services. That's the difference between you and us. Indeed, I said here that the Administrative Tribunal for Public Procurement has validated the procedure and process of the new contracts. Don't say we've hidden anything because I said it here in this gallery. Did I say it here in this gallery or didn't I say it? I said it here in this gallery. What we also said, based on the argument of trade union organisations, is that there were no guarantees of compliance with these social clauses. Precisely, the alarms jump because you and the union organizations have signed social clauses that are now seen in the nails that will not be fulfilled. Look, let me give you an example. The 600 contract, Carballino. The pleas include twenty drivers. The subrogable staff is twenty-three, there are three fewer. Figure thirteen accompaniments, and the subrogables are seventeen. How are you really going to keep these jobs? In the Lugo-Ourense-Vigo contract, subrogationable sixteen, ten appear at the request. In the contract A Coruña-Lugo-La Marña, you have to subrogate twenty-eight and at the beg appear twenty. That is what we are concerned about, whether these jobs are maintained and guaranteed in full respect of agreements and social clauses. That's why we are going to accept the amendment of the Socialist Group as a replacement amendment to paragraph 1 of our proposal, because we understand, in fact, that the procedure is already in progress, this train cannot be stopped, but if we have to ensure precisely that these job guarantees are fulfilled as regards its quality and also its quantity. What we also see, so we put a second point, is that we have to address, yes or yes, that strategy, that plan of sustainable mobility that you -- I told you -- they also included in your 2016 program and are giving up that commitment. A new mobility law. Are you really going to put in place the development of a new law of sustainable mobility? We suppose not because they have already voted against a proposal from the Socialist Group in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u139	Thank you, Mr Bará. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Flora Maria Miranda Pena and two other Members, on the elaboration by the Galician Union of an alternative and sustainable proposal for the deposit of sludge from the dredging of the Lérez River
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u140	There are amendments to the Parliamentary Group on the Galego Nationalist Block and the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u141	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mr. Marcos Cal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u142	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all again. These days all the alarms have jumped in the Arousa stream, and they've gone too far in the last few years. They repeated the alarms because the Galician Union put upon the table the possibility of depositing at the entrance of the river the melodies out of the dredging which it plans to make the Galician Union in the river Pontevedra. You don't know what they're composed of, you don't know about the conditions they're going to have in their own creek, but Junta's already looking for what to do with those muds, from our point of view, starting the house by the roof on such a transcendent theme. The idea of the Galician Union is, or at least it was, because it now reveals that there is nothing closed, depositing in the legalized dumpster that there are two miles from the island of Salvora the mud and arid extracts from the supposed dredging, from which we know nothing, from the river Pontevedra. A few muds, which logically don't want Pontevedra's confrries in the Tambo island, arguing about the environmental conditions they would have in the area, the consequences and the damage they would cause in the seafood banks. In view of this refusal by the Pontevedra River sector, the Union announces that they are deposited on the island of Salvora, integrated into the National Park of the Atlantic Islands, at the place of entry of the currents in the most productive river of Galicia. The truth is, they seem to be joking sometimes, but the sad thing is, they're not. What the Galician Junta comes to say is that the confrries of the Pontevedra River are right to demonstrate that the deposit of these muds is harmful at the entrance of the river, so they seek an alternative place, and that alternative place could be the entrance of the Vilagarcia River, see to believe! The first thing we have to say, as we have publicly since the minute one that came out of this new one, is our absolute support for the sea sector in defending its interests, in the front opposition to the mud deposit of the Lérez River at the point of greenery in Salvora, in the Arousa River. We've also expressed our support for your request, which they've been doing for years, for the closure of that point of greenery. Or should we call it by its name, that legalized dump in the National Park of the Atlantic Islands, whose existence corresponds to practices of past times that violate the current laws of preservation of the environment? Since Ports' claim was made public, the response of the environmental groups and the Arousa River Sea sector was a logical sense of alarm. The sea sector is characterized by its organization in defense of interests that are common to all of us: the conservation of the marine environment and the sustainability of the Galician rivers. We have very recent examples, such as the mobilization of this sector against the preliminary draft of the Aquaculture Act, or its recent involvement in the mobilizations against the reopening of the Touro mine. In this case, the APDRA, the platform in defense of the Arousa River, has already manifested itself immediately with a series of communiqués and launched a meeting on the 10th, in which the confrarías and organizations were called together within the collective itself, in order to analyze the problem and see the steps to follow. As soon as they count, both the ecological groups and the sea sector, with the support of a multitude of social, political and trade union organizations, and a broad layer of society that is tired of continuing to attack the environment with total impunity and demand to end these practices that are leading us to disaster. It is necessary to point out the irresponsibility of institutions that subject one of our most important economic motors to live continuously under the sword of Damocles, called Touro mine, called the Ence, called virtues, and a long list of preventable causes, of there being a real political commitment to something that constitutes our identity as a people and which is fundamental to our economy: the sea and laughter. We do not understand how the Galician Union can justify that, in view of the negative confrries of the Pontevedra River to the deposit of the previous muds of the Lérez dredging on the island of Tambo, due to the negative consequences it will have on the contour and its seafood crops, the alternative to this situation is to transfer them to the area of Sálvora, which is part of the National Park of the Atlantic Islands, which confers special protection on it. We don't know how the Galician Union intends to justify such barbarity. That's why we urge the Galician Union to look for alternatives that don't consist of passing the ball from one river to another, because our rivers are not dumplings. Our laughs are part of our natural heritage, landscape and cultural heritage; they constitute a fundamental wealth for our country and must be preserved and dynamized for what its natural vocation is: the sustainable exploitation of its resources. A few laughs that are already suffering a multitude of aggressions, and that the last thing they need is the discharge of more than 300,000 cubic metres of mud. The problem is, on the one hand, that we talk about how to execute the dredging of Pontevedra's creek without a single serious study on the table above the mud that contains Pontevedra's creek and about the consequences of that dredging. On the other hand, what the Union recognises is detrimental to Pontevedra's river, contemplates doing it in the Arousa's river. And we say that, if the Union recognizes that it is harmful to Pontevedra's river, it should defend that it does not go to the Arousa's river either. If they're harmful to one laugh, they're harmful to another. On the other hand, we understand that it is time to say with force that the sea has to stop being a dump, so the spills in the pit of Salvora must end in a definitive way. With regard to the dredging of Pontevedra's river, we have already manifested and positioned ourselves on every occasion in which we have talked about this issue, and we understand that before we take any steps to achieve a dredging, and less think about what will be done with these muds already, we need a deep study on the muds of the river and the consequences that would have the dredging itself, the mobilization of these sludges, in Pontevedra's own stream. And it's not something that just says in Marea, it's something that also points to the European Union, which limits dragons to very justified occasions, when there's no other kind of alternatives and the consequences are minimal, and they're also pointing to it by the echo groups. We understand that before that dredging, we have to study all possible alternatives, because dredging is also a solution - when it is - temporary, because the river will continue to deposit sediments in the same places and we will again encounter the same problem in the future. In the Pontevedra River there are a lot of infrastructures that influence the movement of currents, some of them have judicial judgments, and maybe that's where we first have to act. We have the situation of the illegal fillings of the port, with a conviction from the Supreme Court that tells the administrations to return to the current situation that zone, and all points out that, possibly, the deposits that are being held in the maritime area have to do with the illegal construction of that port. Only once you've shown the dredging as the best solution, depending on the kind of mud it contains, only at that point will you have to determine which is the best treatment for those sludges, not the other way around. With regard to the Sálvora dump, we need first of all, before we continue to consider continuing to deposit more sludges in that place, which are published, if they exist, that we understand that they should exist, with regard to the impact that they have on the Arousa River the already about 5 million tons of mud and arid from the dredgings of the various ports, accumulated since the Ministry of Development authorized the opening of the point of Sálvora in the late 1990s. We understand that the Galician Union should be aware of the condition that they might be having these muds at the entrance of the Arousa River, because that pit is exactly in the ocean entrance into the Arousa River. We argue that it's time to stop hiding the trash under the carpet. The existence of the point of Salvora is a practice corresponding to the last century. We are at a time when citizenship begins to show a clear commitment to the environment and the planet, and yet we see how institutions continue to make decisions from the past, which reflects many steps behind society itself. That's why we're going to act politically in front of this issue, against that a dredging is committed without seeking alternatives and without knowing exactly what the affections that dredging will have, and we're also going to act in the direction of ending the vegetables at the point of Salvador's greenery and, in general, in the Welsh rivers. The conclusion is very simple: our seas and our rivers are not dumplings. For our own sake, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Cal. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u144	Good morning. In fact, through the media, we learned about the intention of the Sea Council, specifically of Galician ports, within the project of dredging the Lérez River, in the stretch that goes from the Nautical Club to Les Praceres, to deposit the mud that is extracted from the dredging of it and leads to a point established at the end of the 1990s by the Spanish Government against the Grove, between the islands of Ons and Salvora, specifically 3.5 miles from Ons and 2 Salvora. Of course, it's surprising, because in the project and in the public exhibition it was to deposit them around the area of the island of Tambo and Campelo, and then, by the Board of Galicia, of Portos, it's taken out the media that is going to be done elsewhere. It is obvious that this is the logical reaction to the opposition, by the sector, in the Pontevedra River, but what is no longer so logical is that without a public exhibition being made, without officially following administrative procedures, if you make a new public exhibition of the new point of dumping by Ports of Galicia, if you throw a balloon probe to see if nothing happens by changing the spill of these muds elsewhere. It's obvious that the reaction in the Pontevedra River is logical, because, as much as I say to the Galician Union in that area, it's potentially toxic, we have to remember that part of it passes in front of the location of Ence, and it's logical the reaction of the Pontevedra River, it makes sense the reaction of all the sectors involved in the Arousa River, I mean: the sea sector, the ecological platforms and the citizenship in general. Because we're talking about the Arousa River being the most productive and richest stream not only of Galicia, but of Europe and even of the world. We're talking about a sector, specifically the extractive sector, which accounts for 44% of the walkboats, 41% of the smaller boats, 68.7% of the bats... i.e. that the richness of this laugh is enormous, it generates many jobs, and of course the concern is more than logical. It is the concern of this intention to make this spill of mud from the dredging of Lérez, but it also updated a concern that had already come from old, and is the concern about the existence of that point of dumping in an area situated in the mouth of the Arousa River; an area where all the marine and temporal currents make everything in that area laugh inside, by which there is alarm, and it is an alarm, from the point of view of the BNG, justified, and, of course, we strongly support the claims; not only that all the muds of that dredging are not being poured out, but rather that there is no longer any kind of mud being poured out. That is why we tabled an amendment to this initiative which is being presented by En Marea. The initiative calls for an alternative and sustainable proposal for the deposit of sludge from the Lérez dredging, which we fully agree with. We don't agree with the blackmail and the threat that is being made from the ports of Galicia and from the Council itself, the counselor himself, in the sense that, if you get in trouble to spill at this point, you'll stop doing dredging. There are dredgings that need to be done, what needs to be done is to do them from a sustainable point of view, with all the guarantees and all the treatments that need the sludges to be extracted to make them harmless. And, of course, the sea does not accept indefinitely dumped, as much as it is intended to justify that they are outside the work area. He said we tabled an amendment not to be carried out at the point of dumping established between the islands of Ons and Salvora, that point established by the Ministry three and a half miles and two miles respectively, no more dumping. Let us stop making absolutely no dumping at this point and at the same time make a study on the situation of deposits made at that point and the impact that the same...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u145	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u146	...they can be producing in the area, from an ecological, fishing and environmental point of view. Clearly, the spills that are made in the sea are not harmless. Clearly, we have to follow up and know what repercussions they have. And we're convinced that the impact of mud...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u147	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u148	...of the many tons that are being deposited at that point, it's not harmless for a creek...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u149	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u150	...as productive as Arousa's. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u151	For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Moreira Ferro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u152	Thank you, Mr. President. Very good morning. The Galician People's Group agrees to support this proposal, but with the nuances included in our amendment, making it clear that what is done will always have to be in accordance with the current rules and guidelines on this type of action. Matize also that we're not talking about mud, they're basically thin arid, sands, it's not polluting material, as soon as I'm going to comment. And so we have it, therefore, committed to our writing of the amendment. The People's Party has always been, is and will be in favour of the sea sector, seeking the best for the sector and in direct contact with it, and I believe that the action of the Sea Councillor in this sense is a clear demonstration of the commitment of the Galician Union and of President Feijóo to the sea sector. But it's true that there are voices of interest who continuously aim to generate alarm in seafarers. There are people who are not interested in helping the sea sector, but who are interested in generating concern in the sea sector. And here's an example. The Union is committed to carrying out the dredging of the Pontevedra River area and the Lérez Estuary. It is a project in which the extraction of some 330,000 cubic metres of materials, not of sludge, but of sand and fine arids, which are not precisely radioactive waste, as you want to understand. Here it was said, and in the media too, lots of things. It was said to be poured into Salvora, it was said that Ports of Galicia approved that measure. You have come to say that the waste of the Lérez dredged is already being poured into Salvora. Even the Member of the European Parliament of BNG, Bildu and Esquerra has denounced to the European Commission that waste from the dredging of Lérez — that has been announced in the media — is happening there. What's the reality? The reality is that the dredging didn't start, it doesn't even have an approved project, it doesn't even have approval or authorization. The ports of Galicia have not authorized any spills. For many reasons, but basically, because Galician ports have no power to authorize these spills, it is a responsibility of the State administration. What happened? It turned out that there was a forecast of 109,000 cubic metres to re-regine seafood banks in Campelo. You question the benefits for the shellfish, but I believe that reking a sea bank is something beneficial for the sector; the tides — the tides of rupture — seem to be misunderstood. And the remaining 221,000 cubic meters would go to storage at an external point, destined for an area of 182,000 square meters on the island of Tambo. What happened? This possibility was rejected. Why? Because it was harmful? Because it was polluting? No, he refused because he was going to bury a seafood bank. But the material — and so the technicians believe — was even better than what was deposited there. What did you do then? Then restart the processing process to make fundamental changes, because it was not intended to harm by burying this seafood bank near the island of Tambo. And what needs to be done is according to the guidelines that Cedex sets. You say this dredging seems to seek only the benefit of an entity linked to nautical tourism. No, ladies and gentlemen, it seeks to benefit from a port of interest in Galicia, a port of Galicia; but essentially it seeks to benefit from the shellfishing of the area, and the fact that it regenerates with 109,000 cubic metres of arids and thicks that would go to the Campelo area is a clear example that it is something beneficial to the sector. They also say they intend to deposit sludge without any kind of study that guarantees it. It's not true, there are already studies that are documented, and they could even see in public information the preliminary draft of dredging, the environmental impact study. Analytical samples show no contamination and would be harmless. And if they were contaminated, gentlemen, they wouldn't be used to re-regine the seafood bank in Campelo. It's not a waste, nor does it apply to the waste regulations, because it's not a waste. And the processing of the dredging project has the assurance that it will be carried out in accordance with the regulations, will be publicly known and will lead to a public information procedure and the issuance of the corresponding sectoral reports. Speaking of the point of dumping, this is not a point of dumping that has now randomly designated the Council, it is an already existing point of dumping, where 2 million cubic metres have been deposited since 1998; of which 135,000 have been deposited between 2001 and 2018. The first analysis of what is deposited there reflects that the materials deposited there do not have a contaminant load; it is an area where there is little influence of currents; it does not have archaeological interest; it is a point of dumping out of the inland waters; it is outside the area of the National Park of the Atlantic Islands; it is within an ECA zone but it could be used as a historically used point as a repository of dredging materials, but there is nothing approved. And consider one thing, which right now there are seventeen dragons in perspective that are linked to depositing the materials at this point. Because if this point is not possible...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u153	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u154	...they're out of place to deposit these dredgings and these dredgings are compromised. We'd run out of dredging points from Fisterra to the south. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, they neither alarm nor encourage alarming the sector because there is no reason. You can be quiet in the whole sector because nothing will cause you to harm the rivers of Galicia and the sea sector.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u155	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u156	And it's clear that there's no discharge allowed, that there's nothing going on...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Moreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u158	...and that the dredging of Lérez didn't start. So, we hope you'll accept...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u159	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u160	...to our amendment. For the moment, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u161	The Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u162	Thank you, President. [[Mrs. Vilan Lorenzo shows a photograph to his lordships.]] This is Pontevedra's laugh, just the point of what we're talking about, where these arids would be extracted, as Mr. Moreira has just said. It may seem like an asphalted clue, but it doesn't. This is what's left when the tide drops, and what's next are boats, of course, they're not cars. The laugh is like this, that's what's left when the tide goes down; i.e., it's about to go blind, and it's unsustainable for a lot of time, it's not something new, for years. At the confluence of the river with the river, if the thing continues like this, there will come a moment when there will be a lake, because the river will no longer be a river, and the river will evolve outwards, of course. Of course, it will be a way, perhaps, to stop talking about Pontevedra's hives and the environmental problems that the laughs about, and the Arousa's hives too. The European Union knows that, and in fact, they punish us mostly for these two laughs. Already for the years 2006 and 2007 Pontevedra asked Ports for a project for the dredging and regeneration of the bottom of the river. It's about five kilometers, going between the Burgo Bridge and the Praceres Dam. More than a decade later, this parliamentary group still understands that the dredging of the river, the bottom of the river's mouth and the bottom of the river, is necessary and priority. The effects are harmful to marine banks, to the environment, to nautical sports; they just need to see how they can't reach or how they can't get out of there. We are, of course, aware of the difficulties of a dredging, not only in the stream of Pontevedra, in all rivers and in all rivers as well. He just passed by, spent last year at the Guard at the mouth of the Mine River. But what is unacceptable is, while muds and arids are depositing, closing their eyes, looking to the other side, and it will already be naturally fixing itself — these were the initial explanations of Galician ports — which is not true. If the river and the river did not suffer any kind of human impact, because indeed, the river and the river would work themselves naturally, but it is that the human impact exists and then it cannot be obvious that this human impact will continue to exist. A decade of inoperation on the part of the Government of the Union that has already become used to us, because environmentally inoperation is also coming in this last decade. They weren't even able to make a project. The only thing in Galician ports is a project. There's no project at the moment. And in the parliamentary group we know it well because we asked for a copy, we went to see it and, indeed, they couldn't teach us the project because it doesn't exist. There's a project that has almost a decade too, and that's what Galician ports have come to put on the table a future maritime station with a project right there to spin a passenger transport in the river Pontevedra. It would be outward, from those muds to there, because, of course, the river could not pass because it's absolutely impossible. What's more, even some candidate to the mayor of Pontevedra came to talk about riding there too. I don't know what port matters, everything was on electoral propaganda! Ten years later, the Councillory of the Sea and Ports of Galicia are looking for a new place for spills. The dumping was on the island of Tambo, which was the initial of the preliminary draft; and now they will look for something that is in the National Park of the Atlantic Islands, in the vicinity of the National Park of the Atlantic Islands, ZEPA area, as Mr. Moreira has just said, which should not matter too much because, total, what gives! ZEPA areas are protected spaces but it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. It seems that this Natural Heritage Act that will continue processing in this House will not take into account ZEPA areas, because as a whole it is already full of spills, which gives us more to continue to accumulate dumps there! You will have to see if it is compatible with ZEPA area, precisely. Something you'll have to say to the Environmental Council. Besides, in that area of the Arousa River there is already a mountain of sediments, and adding more sediments, even if it is said to be non-contaminated... but when one sees the preliminary draft, he sees that there is actually a report that he has been given to an external company to the Board of Galicia that says there are sediments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u163	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u164	...—I have finished—that in some cases exceed the limits permitted in heavy metals. So, indeed, they're contaminants, you just need to read it. It's going to Galician ports... perhaps, Mr. Moreira, you're more fortunate than us, that we've had to ask several times, on several occasions, and it took months to teach us, but maybe you're going tomorrow and you're already taught.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u165	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u166	Curiously — already finished — you can't use the public facilities of the old Sogarisa, for example, to carry those sludges, which would not impact any of the laughter. By the way,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u167	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u168	... instead of giving money to a private company, which was Sogarisa...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u169	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u170	...would do his job. We're going to vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u171	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. Now yes, by the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Cal Ogang has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u172	Thank you, President. The People's Party tells us we're calm. When it comes to environmental matters, send us peace. You don't have any kind of legitimacy to convey tranquility in environmental matters. You guys, seven years ago... will you let me talk? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you want to talk to anyone? You seven years ago, they said that climate change was a plummet. But what do you people come to convey tranquility? Of course we're not calm in the face of your decisions regarding the environment. Obviously, we're not calm... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't know if you want to talk to anyone else, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u173	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u174	Of course, we're not calm, and much less when it's the People's Party that wants to convey tranquility on environmental issues, because that's how we get to where we're going, so we're in the environmental crisis we're in, so we're in the climate crisis we've been in, because you've been saying nothing's happened for many years.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u175	Quiet, please. Quiet. Go on, Mr. Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u176	I just don't know, I don't know what I'm saying is not real. You denied climate change seven years ago. With regard to the amendment of the BNG, we will, of course, accept it. In my speech, I have already expressed our opinion in this respect, which we understand that this point of dumping must end. So it seems to us very well to incorporate it and also to do a study on the tons that have been deposited in Salvora and its objections to the Arousa Ría, which the popular spokesman also says there is no problem, that nothing happens, but, of course, we want studies that say what kind of impacts they have to have. With regard to the amendment of the People's Party, we will consider the possibility of trading it, if this can serve to make this threat no longer exist. But of course, we are not going to change our clear position, which says in the initiative that an alternative and sustainable proposal is sought for sludge storage, so that it is guaranteed that they will not affect any of the rivers, and in particular the Arousa River. Obviously, within the legal frameworks. And with regard to the tranquillity that you intend to convey with respect to the muds of Pontevedra, we must remind you that for years Ence-Elnosa has been seeing mercury and lead and they have been convicted of continued environmental crime. I mean, I don't think we should relax too much either. And we also know how waste water management has worked for all these years. I mean, to say that this is a thin area that looks like we're lying on an island in Hawaii... I think it's a little too much. We're going to be a little serious, we're going to give him the importance of the environmental issue and environmental aggression because, if not, we have no future, and with his attitude, of course, there's no future. Nothing else on our side.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. Cal. We moved on to the next non-law proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members, on the development and application by the Government of Galicia, in a real and effective manner, of Law 2/2014, for equal treatment and non-discrimination of lesbians, gays, transsexuals, bisexuals and intersexuals in Galicia, as well as the actions to be carried out in this regard
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u178	An amendment was tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u179	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u180	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. First of all, we also wanted to start from the BNG by greeting the people who accompany us in the guest gallery, all of them members of the German LGTB collective, whom we thank for coming because I know it's not the best time and that we've also had changes. So thank you so much for being here today. Look, Richard Segalman was a well-known New York painter who witnessed directly to Stonewall's revolts, which gave rise, as you know, to the day of pride. He said, speaking of those revolts, "Today it's hard to explain that at that time being gay was despicable. If you were black, it seemed that the whole society was against you, but if you were gay, the whole society, and even your own family, it was against you. No one was staying in the closet for a taste, just no one could live outside of it." We make this initial reflection from BNG because we think it's important to have collective memory so as not to forget that rights are not given, to remember that history is not a lady who is giving rights as if they were the Magi. Rights are conquered, and, above all, they are exercised, and they must be torn apart every day by much effort, a lot of struggle, a lot of constancy, but, above all, a lot of organization, a lot of organization! [[Applause]] This initiative that we are defending today from the Galego Nationalist Block and that we have already passed on to them before we register the LGTB collectives in our country, which we present and defend at the gates of the anniversary of Stonewall revolts, responds to a double objective. The first is to hustle the Government of Galicia itself, to stimulate it at work — i.e., I mean, if you don't understand it — in the face of the absolute lack of momentum and political will of the People's Party, which is not applying or fully developing Law 2/2014, for equal treatment and non-discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity. Secondly, we bring this initiative to revive the debate on the need to continue moving a democratic and just society towards the population as a whole, and we do so in the face of homophobic and tragic speeches that not only survive but are gaining political power from the People's Party. We speak clearly of the covenants that PP signs with the ultra-right and those who ask for discretion. You passed the vote against the law of equal marriage, you resorted to the civil rights of the LGBT collective, to push out to the picture of the day of pride, and now they rule with whom they defend that homosexuality is a disease. You'll travel back to maybe at the same point, if they've ever come out of it! [[Applause]] It is extremely serious, extremely serious, to protect and whiten homophobic and transitophobic discourses that attack human rights and remove our country from the foundations upon which a democratic society must be established. [[Applause]] Galicia, the Galicians and the Greeks and the LGBT movement of this country have succeeded in us being vanguarded when this Parliament passed in 2014 the law we bring today's debate. Galicia was the first territory of the Spanish state to do so. That text was born with shortcomings, it doesn't include, for example, sanctions, but five years later we have a good proof in this law that, when everyone moves and the board stays still, Galicia is staying behind. In July 2017, the LGBT collective promoted a Welsh gender identity law to cover the void that the 2014 law had left, and they watched its processing. They said they didn't recognize her right to trans people, they said they wouldn't stop considering transsexuality a disease to recognize that the gender identity doesn't always correspond to the sex assigned to birth. Since the BNG we have made the commitment -- we also said that day -- to continue fighting for a German gender identity law, but, in the meantime, the minimum is to demand that the current regulatory framework be fulfilled and that the Galician Union develop the 2014 law. That is where we focus the initiative that we bring to the full today, and we focus on three fundamental areas that are not developing: work, health and social. For five years now, the Galician Union should have promoted a study to identify the social and labour reality of LGBT people and what measures should be taken to combat their discrimination in companies, both public and private, Article 12.3. The investigations carried out within the framework of the European Union, which is where we have to move, the 2015 Eurobarometer, show that at the social level, and within the collective itself, there is awareness that work space continues to be a hostile space for lesbian, gay, bisexual or trans-sexual people, in a very special way for trans-European people. This brings us back to the reflection I said at the beginning, that of Segalman: the existence of structural discrimination makes us afraid to get out of the closet. Fear of rejection leads many people not to live normally and naturally their sexual orientation. But that discrimination is greater and more violent when we talk about trans people, when we talk about gender identity. European studies place the rate of unemployment among trans­Europeans at 85%. What's going on in our country? We don't know. The law also collects and incorporates preventive measures and promotes the visibility of the collective, article 17. This, in this country, was there. This has been in this country since 2007. What we propose today is to recover the original project with which the network of centers Kerote was born, a service focused on attention, training, information and accompaniment on sexuality, especially youth. We propose to recover the original project created by the Galician Nationalist Block when it was in the Youth Directorate General. These centres were practically dismantled by the People's Party, and their advisory functions were derived from women's information centres from 2016 onwards. In addition to being foolish, because professional profiles are absolutely different, we have professionals in the field of sex in the network of centers Cherotee and lawyers and psychologists in the CIM, it assumes an overload of work for the staff, who doesn't even have the information needed to carry out the tasks assigned to them. We propose to recover the initial project, to provide economic and human resources, and, above all, to develop stable programming that pays attention to the collective, to develop prevention and visibility measures, as set out in the law of 2014. There are many people who have doubts, who have fears, who don't even find a safe place in their homes and who need support and support from professionals with the resources necessary to do so. But also the whole of society needs or we need to break with prejudices and stereotypes, which are the basis on which people's discrimination is supported today by their sexual orientation or gender identity. And finally, we will also bring on this initiative measures designed in the field of health, especially in relation to transsexuals. Since the BNG we continue to advocate that this Parliament should process the Welsh Gender Identity Law, but as long as that doesn't happen, and it will happen, we are absolutely convinced and we will work so that this law does not go ahead, in the meantime, the minimum we will guarantee comprehensive health care, based on the right to self-determination of gender, based on the scrupulously respect for the autonomy of people, but also in an integral and inclusive nature. We need to develop this Instruction 13/2017, of health care for transsexuals, which includes minors and adults, but, above all, - I insist very much on this - which is based on criteria that allow discrimination to be broken up or, if allowed, the lottery. The lottery that depends on the person who touches you in your health center, on the sensitivity that that person has; that we develop a model of attention in the public system based on respect for fundamental rights, autonomy, with an inclusive, integral vision, and, above all, non-pathologizing. Finished, President. Today we ask from the BNG for the support of the whole House to move forward in a just and democratic society, to guarantee the fundamental rights of the whole population, whatever our gender identity or sexual orientation, because we will only be free people and citizens when each and every one of us is, regardless of whether the chains that oppress each one of us are different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u181	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u182	Good morning, gentlemen. Good morning also to the people who come representing the collectives, and congratulate them on these dates. See, in 2014 this parliament was a pioneer when it unanimously adopted Law 2/2014, for the equality of treatment and non-discrimination of lesbians, gays, transsexuals, bisexuals and intersexuals. We were the first community to develop the principle of equal treatment and non-discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity. This law is a necessary law, it was a guarantee, integral, transversal law, it was a broad law and also a very ambitious law. And this was thanks to the great work of his rapporteurs, two comrades who are here today, Marta Rodríguez-Vispo and Eva Solla, and two bricks that are no longer in Parliament today, Carme Adán and Carmen Gallego, who were able to understand themselves and bring to this full text with which we could all feel represented. It was an extremely productive text as to the actions that arose the reason for its approval. As a result of that law, we have educational protocols that guarantee equality and non-discrimination in educational institutions. The educational plans and contents have been changed, including the criteria that marked them precisely by law. There were awareness-raising and awareness-raising campaigns, there were agreements with the entities. A multidisciplinary unit has been created to depatologize transsexuality and ensure respect for gender identity, and more recently it has also been constituted the Observatory against Discrimination. Mrs. Rodil speaks of the limitations with which the text was born; I do not deny it. If we did it again today, there would probably be something that would be different, but maybe that was the cost of being the first parliament to pass a law like that. [[Applause]] But I don't share, Mrs. Rodil, what says about the limitations on the initial proposal brought by the Socialist Party to the House. I had the opportunity to participate in the law as an alternate agent. I was the only man in that law, the rest were three companions as alternate captains and three incumbents. And believe me that the initial text, if it had very good intentions, there was nowhere to take it from a legal point of view. There were questions of legislative competence that exclusively corresponded to the State; questions of labour law; questions of state security bodies; something about procedural law, like that debate we had about the investment of the burden of proof. As you know, we don't have competences in procedural law, we can't tell the judges how we have to do their judicial process. There were other aspects, such as the proposed sanctioning regime, which only affected - and so it was observed - or especially the public function, which is just the collective in which its own sanctioning regime already envisages as more serious discriminatory treatments, and other issues that were somewhat rare, such as ensuring gay access to bodies and security forces, environmental agents, coast guards, as if there were a classification of gay professions and less gay professions. That's why there have been things that have not been incorporated into the text, which have been amended, that have not been later on in the report and have not already reached the vote of the plenary. Then there were a lot of other evidences that were corrected, such as, for example, in the initial text there was no mention of youth; there were no gay youths in the initial text. Nor was there any reference to the media, and we all know the importance of the media to end homophobia, to end transphobia, so that there is no discrimination. So, Mrs. Rodil, today you ask us to deepen our application of the law and we tell you that, of course, you do. It is our law, it is the law of all the Greeks, and especially it is the law of all those Greeks who have been discriminated against at some point, who have been humiliated or who have been assaulted by their sexual orientation or identity. Besides, it's a law that has full vigilance and that we feel tremendously proud of. That's why I've already previously manifested to you the will of our group to support the points that go on line to continue applying the law. On points 3 and 4 of his initiative, which refer mainly to the support and mediation service, a counseling service to lesbians, gays, transsexuals and bisexuals, look, when we made the law, this was perhaps one of the clearest points we had. Article 8 of the law LGTBI: support and mediation service for lesbians, gays, transsexuals, bisexuals and intersexuals. A service of information, care and advice to lesbians, gays, transgenders, bisexuals and intersexuals and their close families and people, in collaboration with local governments, will be supported. This is what we put in the law: "in collaboration with local governments." And we wanted it to be in the law, precisely, to influence that local character. We didn't want a service that was rendered only in Santiago, that was performed in the Coruña or the rest of the big cities of our community. We didn't want a telematics service either. We wanted to look after lesbians, gays, transsexuals, their relatives of Ribadeo,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u183	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u184	...of the bridges, of the boat, of the Grove, and, if I'm not mistaken, there's a network of more than 80 CISG. That's why we understand that this is the best network to be able to care for both lesbians and gays and their families. On point 5, I understand that we can reach an agreement. Instruction 13/2017 was made for the purpose of serving as a protocol. It's working properly. It was developed with parents and entities and allows individualized care for each person, and above all overcome pathological approaches. That's why I understand we can reach agreements. I suppose for more...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u185	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u186	By the way, Mr. President, for more than one, it's very tempting to have a lot of traffic or homophobic, it's not the case. Let's continue to develop the law, make everything better, and if that's your intention, here's 41 allies, Mrs. Rodil. In any case, do what you do with the voting system of the initiative...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u187	Thank you, Mr. Trenor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u188	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u189	Thank you. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u190	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies. First of all, I also want to thank and greet the members of the LGTBI entities that you are here today. Thank you for your intense work. Without you, none of the laws that went forward -- which is something that some of the voices that were here have forgotten -- had gone forward and we would have had a legislation that at first was a pioneer in this autonomous community, so thank you. Well, to have 41 allies and allies, both you and us, the opposition, the spokesperson of the People's Party failed to say something that we, from the PSdEG, believe is important. You just missed a great opportunity, the opportunity to repudiate what your partner, the mayor of Madrid, is doing at the door of the manifestation of gay pride; to repudiate a person who eliminates part of the slogans for pride - which is not only from Madrid, it is all of them, in this autonomous community too and at the international level - who honored LGTBI activists, who said such dirty things, gentlemen, as those who keep memories of repression are our greatest pride, that those who really raised, you raised, our rights are our greatest pride. [[Applause]] You missed the opportunity to reprobate those words because they are still committed, with that juicy effort to try to hide the democratic history of our country. The LGTBI movement has conquered rights and freedoms for all and for all. His story deserves recognition, no censorships or cupboards, and today you had a great opportunity to say it here and to repudiate the attitude of his fellow man and fellow members of the Community of Madrid who are now negotiating to load themselves - he said - half of the LGTBI laws of this autonomous community, Mr Trenor. [[Applause]] It is true that for the first time it was passed in Galicia, a law was passed in 2014 - it has been said here - a bill submitted by the PSdeG, defended by my companion Mrs. Gallego, who has assumed a very important step in the fight against discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity. [[Interruptions.]] Five years later, the Greek Government is responsible for more than 70% of this text; a text that despite this consensus that has led to a lot of work, and so we at the moment blessed all the voices and voices, for you only served to posture, lords of the People's Party, because despite that washed face they intended to hide and be less right, less homophobic and less retrograde. [[Murmurs.]] But it has been seen that, indeed, you are still the same as ever, the same ones that before the Constitutional Court tried to rob people of a right with that amendment of the Civil Code; the same ones that went to the Constitutional Court 14 years ago to try to eliminate that right to marriage between people of the same sex, who turned us into the fourth country of the world that legalized these unions; they are the same as here, in Galicia, when the pamphlets of Hazte heard arrived at our educational centers, they denied, even though the PSdeG requested it, to remove them from school; the same ones that were prevented in this chamber from handling a law of gender identity; the same ones that voted the same thing that indicated to them in the primarys Make you hear, that they vote to Mr. Casado; the same ones who continue to despise; the same ones who are caught up from the hook of a political organization, all those who are sure to restrict the rights and freedoms that you can not have here, the rights that are made by virtues of this kind of this people. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u192	Thank you, President. First, say hello too, and thank you for all the effort LGTBI collectives make in our country. The truth is we have to start by lamenting that we have to be debating this initiative, because I hope we have not had to be demanding something as basic as it is met and if we respect the law, something as basic as that, because, despite all the praise that the People's Party has given here, they have not been fulfilling their obligations for five years, with the least obligations, they are systematically violating many articles of the current legislation. So instead of making speeches praising that legislation, I would ask them to make a minimum effort to comply with what they already approved in 2014, even though they emptied it of content; because it must also be said: that law is not enough, in part, by the People's Party. So it's also good that we remember, and many of the things you said here, in this gallery, seem to us an insult. To talk about protocols that are not met and to talk about protocols that are not socializing and that many people don't know is an insult; to talk about a unit that at all helps to end pathologization is an insult, the truth. Let's say here that everything is fine and that everything is being done since Galician union is an insult, when they voted against the gender identity law. We're talking about lives, we're talking about freedom and we're talking about the most basic rights: the right to be, the right to be able to live sexuality as we want, without any kind of intrusion and without any kind of guardianship, and also to live a life without violence and without discrimination. Because reality, unfortunately, is that prejudices continue, stereotypes continue, harassment continues, violence continues, aggression continues, insults continue and suicides continue, which are deaths, suicides continue, because suicides are largely because the system is not able to respond to the most basic rights of these people. As I said, they rejected a law of gender identity that the collectives worked, which is their law; it is not the law of any political party, it is the law of the LGTBI collectives — if it goes ahead — just as it was, in part, the law of 2014. They didn't even have the decency to admit the procedure; they could modify it, which would probably be worse, because we've seen what happened to the 2014: they approved it, whaled it with content and didn't do it at all, but they didn't even have the decency. After all the work and after all the support they achieved, because socially there was a majority support, they refused to approve this legislation, which is urgent, because it has already been said: in the labour market, unemployment and exclusion with high rates; and in the health field the thing is much worse, with long paths by health institutions enduring care continues and enduring totally unnecessary questions, as if playing with one thing or playing with another determined what you are, or as if the genitals also determined what you are, and that's happening. Studies tell us that around half of the people in the collective refused and cancelled medical appointments for fear of what attention would be, for fear of constant questioning. That's what families and people experience, constant fear of coming and seeing — as the voicer of the Nationalist Block Galego said — if we're lucky, to see if there's anyone on the other side with sensitivity. There are, of course, many professionals who have it, but that can't be. It can't be that sometimes yes and sometimes no; what there has to be is legislation that guarantees rights. That's what's happening, too, thanks to you. It is also a discretionary decision that people can see recognized in the document identifier. Imagine for five minutes that it would mean going to a plane or to the supermarket and that in your ID document you didn't see yourself represented, that when they call you you didn't feel called either; that's happening. That is why, of course, we are going to support this initiative, which seems basic to us, of minimum. There's no reason for them to go through an initiative that asks them to comply with legislation at most of their points. Let them come here to talk about the ICDs with a supposed discourse of territorial reality, when they have just made a unique unit in Santiago de Compostela and they want all the people throughout Galicia to shift to Santiago de Compostela... at least they don't have the face of using the CIS argument now, of territorial reality. They dismantled the centers of Love You, which were specific centers, resources that worked correctly and had nothing to do with them. Now, to pretend that CIMs serve everything, for, the truth is not the solution. Above all I want to note that speeches are not worth; the People's Party may come here to talk about what it understands and defends, but what it is worth is the facts. All the vetoes to specific legislation, what they did in the Madrid Town Hall and their government partners, who are evaluating associations like Hazte Hear, are demonstrating day by day that, despite their having a new face and having a different speech, they are actually anchored in the same past. So I would ask that they stop being cynical and that they really start defending diversity, which for us, of course, is the greatest pride.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u193	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u194	Well, thank you President. First of all, I want to thank both the Socialist Party and En Marea for their support. I told Mrs. Quinteiro that there was no reason not to come to an agreement. There are, there are; they have their own, because at the bottom there are two completely different conceptions of things. I think it's fair also to be transparent, because Mr. Trenor and I have been talking all morning and trying to reach an agreement and reach a consensus. But what the People's Party wants from BNG is that we give up a fundamental and very important part of our initiative, and we're not going to do it, we're not going to reduce. Because what was meant is that in one part of the point where we could agree — these are the first two points of our initiative — we renounce our group's power of impulse to become almost mere pointers, as a reminder to the Board of Galicia that it has to comply with what already appears to be collected in the law. I insist: the first two points of the Block initiative are articles 12.3 and 12.7 of the law that was passed here five years ago. If it hasn't been done for these five years, it's because there's been no desire to do it, and we're not going to do it -- I insist -- as point-makers. In that sense, we are not going to accept the amendment, nor are we — the advance — voting by points, and I will explain why too. In addition to that previous question — which I was saying now — that the law has not been complied with for five years, which shows that it is not a priority for the People's Party and the Council of Galicia to comply with the legislation that is in force in our country, everything that we have been moving forward in this country over the last five years, if we make a little memory — and I said that it was necessary to have a collective memory — was for the push of the movement and the LGBT collective, everything! Remember when we announce the creation of that unit, with which we do not agree, and tell me that a fundamental part of the LGBT collective is neither, because it has not been fully consensual with anyone; this unit of reference in the CHUS is announced to get out of the way of the Greek law of gender identity that the opposition has brought from the collective's hand here, to this camera, to try to save itself. To try to save the face of voting but not the processing of that law, they announced a unit — I insist — which does not respond to the interests and demands of the collective itself, which is, above all, proximity services and attention based on the right of self-determination of gender, with an integral and inclusive perspective. That's why it's a fundamental part of our initiative, which is to guarantee this integral care in the whole of our country's health centers and hospitals and to unify criteria of care, always with that perspective of accompaniment and non-pathologizing. Just to finish, because it's also the reading that I get out of all the conversations we've had and from this initiative, I recommend something to them: the first thing is that they hear, but with the ability to want to understand what is being said to them by the collectives, that they listen to their demands and that they listen to their needs; and the second thing they read, because they are doing a lot in other territories of the Spanish state. I recommend to them — not to assume as applicable here, in the case of the Greek — that we value what is being done and the important work they have done, for example, in Catalonia to approve a model of health care for trans people based on those principles that we also inspire our initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u195	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u196	We'll keep bringing it over and over a thousand times, all that we need, because we're not going to stop fighting for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u197	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u198	After the debate on the non-legislative proposals has been closed, we proceed to the vote on the proposals. Close the doors, please. We begin by voting on the non-legislative proposal of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Jaime Castineira. The amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group is not accepted and there is a deal with the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Do you know her or do you read her? Léoa, says: [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] "The Greek Parliament urges the Galician Union to increase, in collaboration with all the municipalities of Galicia, the public housing park in social rent by making use of all the investment aid lines intended for public promotion housing, both for new creation and for rehabilitation of municipal housing, as well as for the provision of housing by individuals through the relevant programmes." We voted for this transaction. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Castineira Broz asks for the word.]] Yes, Mr. Castineira? We have to stop the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u199	Just to clarify that this transaction is to add to the initial proposal. There is the initial proposal and, in addition, the add-on of that paragraph.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u200	Well, it's good that you tell me, of course. Then this one is added. It's just that here it puts on a resolutive part. So we voted, as Mr Castineira explained, with this addition. We vote. Vote of the transactioned text of the Non-Law Proposition, of the G.P. The people of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Jaime Castineira Broz and six other Members, on the promotion by the Galician Union, in collaboration with Fegamp, of the establishment of public housing parks for social rent in the municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants, with the simultaneous use of aid lines for the rehabilitation of municipal housing. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 59; abstentions, 13. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u201	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Paula Prado. The amendment of the Socialists' Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. Vote of the Non-Law Proposition, of the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Paula Prado del Río and eight other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament in respect of the proposal for an organic law against illegal occupation and for the neighbouring coexistence and protection of the safety of persons and things in the communities of owners, presented at the Congress of Members. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; votes against, 19; abstentions, 13. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u202	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada. I was pending a transaction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u203	Yeah, we have a deal with the BNG amendments and we're waiting, but I don't think there's a deal with the People's Party amendments. I read the remaining text of this initiative: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to develop, with the participation of the most representative trade union organizations, a proposal for the implementation of the services of public children's schools", which is where the question would be, "a sufficient number of squares covering the existing demand for staff serving in the autonomous administration in Santiago de Compostela, specifically in the administrative complexes of San Caetano and San Lázaro, as well as for those most important own work centres, such as those of Coruña, Ferrol, Lugo and Ourense." This would be the transactional text.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u204	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. We voted for this transaction. Vote of the transactioned text of the Non-Law Proposition, of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr. Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and seven other Members, on the development by the Galician Union, with the participation of the most representative trade union organizations, of a proposal for the implementation of child school services for the staff of the autonomous administration. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u205	We are now voting for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Ms. Julia Torregrosa. There are amendments which have been accepted, in particular that of the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block and that of the Socialist Group, and the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group is not accepted. [[Mr. Moreira Ferro asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Moreira, what do you want the word for? [[Mr Moreira Ferro: To request a point of order.]] Thank you. Do you accept the point vote?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u206	So first of all, I want to say that we accept the amendment of the PSdEG and the BNG, because, in fact, we have already tabled a self-amendment of points 1 and 2. So point 3 of the BNG would be an addition amendment. And we do not accept the point vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u207	Don't you accept it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u208	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u209	Well, then we voted for that transaction of what she's been talking about now. We vote. Vote of the transactioned text of the Non-Law Proposition, of the G.P. de In Marea, at the initiative of Da Maria de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and Da Luca Chao Pérez, on the performances to be carried out by the Government in relation to the titles issued by the School of Poio Canteriers. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u210	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Ms Maria Luisa Pierres. There are no amendments. [[Mrs. Pierres López asks for the floor.]] What do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u211	He got into a transaction, which means he didn't get close to it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u212	But there's no amendment. How'd it go?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u213	In voice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u214	But when they talked about it, then? But this... of course! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u215	Yes, Mr. Castineira proposed it in the debate and we accept it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u216	He can do it. So as far as I know, if all groups agree, you can do it. But I've only heard you intend to do it. Of course, if you don't tell us that they came to her...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u217	I'll let you know now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u218	So, in particular, what are we going to vote on? If they have reached an agreement and all agree, what is the amendment in question?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u219	I read it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u220	Then read it, please. That's how we're done before.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u221	Here it goes: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to address, through the Fegamp, all the municipalities of Galicia in order to facilitate, through the mechanisms it considers appropriate, the effective application of the content of Articles 24.7a and 39.c of Law 2/2016, of February 10, of the Galician soil, as regards proposals that are justified by their architectural quality as regards the fulfilment of the building conditions."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u222	Thank you. We therefore vote for this transaction that has just been read. Vote of the transactioned text of the Non-Law Proposition, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Luisa Pierres López and two other Members, on the launching by the Government of Galicia of a procedure for the assessment of the architectural quality of the buildings affected by Articles 24 and 39 of Law 2/2016, of the ground of Galicia, who wish to obtain the exceptional fulfilment of the special generic conditions applicable to them. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 53; abstentions, 19. The voting is positive. The text of this non-law proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u223	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Xosé Luis Bará. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is accepted. We vote. Vote of the transactioned text of the Non-Law Proposition, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luis Bará Torres and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the requirements of conditions for the granting of the public service for the regular transport of passengers by road and the development of a new public road transport plan. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u224	We are now voting for Mr Cal's Parliamentary Group of En Marea. The amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group is accepted and a transaction is pending. If he doesn't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u225	Yes, rather than making a transaction, we directly accept the amendment to replace the People's Party, which incorporates the specific sentence and it already remains the same.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u226	Okay. We therefore vote for this transaction. [[Mr. Moreira Ferro asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Moreira, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u227	To ask for a point vote, then.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u228	Do you accept the point vote? Or point 2 separately? [[Mr. Cal Ogong: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u229	Point 1.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u230	We then vote point 1 of this non-law proposition. We vote. Vote of point 1 of the transactioned text of the Non-Law Proposition, of the G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Flora María Miranda Pena and two other Members, on the elaboration by the Cunta de Galicia of an alternative and sustainable proposal for the deposit of sludges from the dredging of the river Lérez. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. Point 1 of this non-law proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u231	We vote the rest of the points. Vote of the transactioned text, except point 1, of the Non-Law Proposal, of the G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Flora María Miranda Pena and two other Members, on the elaboration by the Cunta de Galicia of an alternative and sustainable proposal for the deposit of sludges from the dredging of the river Lérez. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected, except for point 1.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u232	And finally, we voted for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Olalla Rodil. The amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group is not accepted. [[Mr. Trenor Lopez asks for the floor.]] What do you want the word for, Mr. Trenor? Give a voice to Mr. Trenor's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u233	As we agreed on the most important part of the initiative, I would like to ask you again for a point-by-point vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u234	He said he did not accept the point vote. We vote. Vote of the Non-Law Proposition, of the G.P. the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members, on the development and application by the Government of Galicia, in a real and effective manner, of Law 2/2014, on equal treatment and non-discrimination of lesbians, gays, transsexuals, bisexuals and intersexuals in Galicia, as well as the actions to be carried out in this regard. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u235	We suspended the session until 4:30.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u236	Good afternoon. We continue the session with item 5 on the agenda, interpelerations. Interpellation by Mr Julio Torrado Quintela and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the policy of the Government of Greece in relation to women's health care
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u237	Mr. Torrado has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u238	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. We have a debate — if I may — on the basis of a situation not explicitly or necessarily concrete or real, but a situation that can be given and which is usually given: a woman of thirty years — those who are pregnant — who decide to voluntarily interrupt her pregnancy. We can make two mistakes: the first is judgment, which is a common, strangely common mistake. It's not just about discussing the legal issue and legitimacy, but about a moral judgment about not their right anymore, but about their condition, about whether it should or not, as is their morals or on which their decisions are based; as if someone had the opportunity to tell a woman... Look, "Free motherhood makes women authentically women," said a minister of the People's Party. This is the first mistake. One might say that abortion is to do what Neanderthals did, that they cut off their heads to the newborns, and some bigger stupidities. That's the first mistake, we made this mistake. Why? Because there's still awareness that you can judge a person for a question about which, probably, nobody knows for sure what happens in a specific situation; so we don't have the moral capacity to judge those situations. That's the first mistake, and why is it? So look: it's given because, despite the fact that this position of judging a woman in all her vital facets by a decision like that exists in a relatively small part — probably small, always worrying, but probably small — of the population, who considers this to be very worthy — juggles — there is another part not small that gives her voice and that gives her speaker, and another part that does electoral campaigns saying that women have to be authentically women or — you know — that you have to explain what they have inside. That's a mistake that makes many people think they can judge that decision. From that point of view — probably we're not going to share it — we would like to know if you, from the Government of Unity, share or do not share that a woman should be judged and her decision. That's the first question. The second question, the second mistake: it makes it difficult for you to have a right. Because, Counselor, the voluntary interruption of pregnancy, absolutely unpleasant as a personal situation, is a right, and this seems to be discussed, because it was indeed discussed. Mr. Gallardón said it wasn't a right, and we haven't heard very well yet whether the current People's Party, in which I understand that the Government of the Union still integrates, considers it to be a right or not. From the Socialist Group if we consider it, and tell us that practically most of the political forces in this country too, and that a vast majority of society too. From then on, we'd like to know if, considering it's a right, so you recognize that you have to comply with the law. Because let's be clear: in Galicia the woman's right to a voluntary interruption of pregnancy as recognized in the law is imposed; the law is systematically imposed. These political tensions that are provoked to attract or try not to leave a certain type of vote, because it's an electoral issue — it's done: to question the morality of a woman for election purposes — are worrying and lead to breaking the laws, which is what happens, and in Galicia it happens. We pick up the case we were starting with, put something more specific and sure to recognize it. This woman has the decision to voluntarily interrupt pregnancy, so let's say that by a clinical decision, by one of those situations where it's technically recommended, and in addition, it's understandable. From there, that woman could claim and claim, naturally, her right to do so. What's going on in Galicia then? Make it difficult for him. You have a lot of attention, a lot of care and a lot of delicacy, a scrupulous — excessive — defense of the so-called right to conscientious objection by professionals, a lot greater, a lot higher and infinitely higher than respect for women's right to voluntarily interrupt their pregnancy. That imbalance is unacceptable. You know that this happened on more than one occasion in Galicia and you also know that the Union was condemned for it. Because there was some case of a woman who suffered as the Greek health system, because of the decisions of her directors, slowed down, hampered and hindered the procedure and lengthened it until there came a point of grave danger to the fetus and to the mother. It was she who, by her own means, had to travel to Madrid — because you're from private clinics in Madrid — to do so. Even if it was done, it was so complicated — let me have a parenthesis — that the private clinic they derived knows what they did? It goes to public health, which is where the good people are, let's not forget. What happened? You know that case -- that there's a specific case I'm describing to you -- led that woman, through all that concatenation of situations, to lose the ability to have children again at another time, when she decided or when she wanted to, if she wanted, that she could decide, because women decide. From that, did that sentence change anything for the Government of the United States? No, no, no, no. They did one thing, one thing: President Feijóo went out, said he was apologizing and he had to find a better balance of that supposed right that you consider as so important to the conscientious objection, to make it balanced with the woman's right. Three years ago. And what happened from that reflection? They said they were going to find that formula. What has been modified? What happened? So we, who find that nothing has happened and that it is a case that can happen again — we would like it not, but it can happen again — ask ourselves — and there is the interpellation: do you really share the law on sexual and reproductive health and voluntary interruption of pregnancy? We assume that a minimally sensible government may not agree politically with a law, as it could not be otherwise, but is obliged to comply with it. I think that's what you're usually defending, or at the moment you defend it in some of the things that they're interested in. But is a government required to comply with the law? Well, let's suppose so. Well, you don't do it, because you must have some moral cap that prevents you or makes it hard for you to fulfill some laws that touch, precisely, issues like this. His moral cap was a little more hidden, now he's more visible, we know him. You get them to break some laws, they have that moral debate that they've been raised now from Vox, which forces them to position themselves. Because we understand that that's the problem: that they used to have it inside and now it's out, but it's still in the same place. Vox, in the end, is the PP without self-censorship; it's what most PP wants to be, but it doesn't dare; let's say it's like his voice of conscience; Vox is the PP but with alleviation. You even know what they call them: the right coward. It must be that being coward is trying to comply with the law and the brave is not doing it. So that's the situation that you're getting rid of to have to break some law to get along with that part of the political opposition you've been given space to. [[Murmurs.]] In the end, you, when it comes to rights, especially women's rights, speak to the blue PP logo behind you, but you feel and have the heart with Vox's green, and the truth is it's a little dangerous. [[Murmurs.]] Do you then agree, as your party president said, that the current law, the law of 2010, should be abolished and returned to 1985? If you agree, tell me why Mr. Rajoy didn't. If you agree, which is legitimate that you agree, will you systematically violate the current because you do not agree with it or will you put in place sufficient means to accomplish it, which do not exist? Will they make it easier for women to continue today without the full right to exercise their right to voluntary termination of pregnancy or not? Because today you can't exercise properly in Galicia, and you know it; there comes a time when they derive it, make it difficult for them, and there are cases that happen. Women today are unprotected in this aspect in Galicia, because you have a moral debt, but it's not with women, it's with the ultra-right that compels them to do these things. So when they come out -- and they have voices that come out -- saying these things is worrying, and we're worried about an involution of the rights that it's cost a lot and that they're very easy to overthrow. So we believe that this government must stand. I know you'll try to say something else and you'll even try not to talk, and you won't even want to say whether you agree or not with the law. You will be able to tell me that you are and that you are not, because you have to please two souls. But we want to know, really, whether you're with Vox or with women. That is the question we want to ask if, from that point on, we can defend that we need more material and human resources to comply with the law — which is not being complied with — and whether, from that case three years ago, when they said they would think about balancing rights, they did something or not. [[Murmurs.]] Because evident they didn't do anything and therefore say that it is done not to do either is no guarantee. Waiting for you to answer, at least, some of the questions, for now, nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u239	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u240	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen. The truth is that I wanted to start this inquiry well; I wanted to thank the treatment that all members of the House have given to the pharmaceutical management law, thank the rapporteur for the presentation, Marta Rodríguez-Vispo, for the work and all the spokespersons who intervened. That's why I think it's important that the House is looking to build, but I see it's just like an oasis in the desert. [[Applause]] We are going to follow logically, defending and bet on the quality of the health service and, logically, on the care of the woman and the newborn. Because, in fact, the title of the inquiry is the policy of the Greek Government on women's health care, so I'm going to talk about what we have in women's health, not just a specific topic. From the Health Council and from Sergas, we have, logically, complied with the established regulations and worked to improve women's health care and ensure their rights in this area, always in a process of continuous improvement. It doesn't seem reasonable to ask whether the Government wants to comply with the law. To serious governments, I don't think we have to ask them that; we're in law, with all the laws. We put the means in place and take the necessary measures to ensure quality assistance to all women, regardless of where they live, identifying areas of improvement with the rapid application of corrective measures based on criteria of equity and efficiency; the desire to materialize each day in the proper management of resources according to needs and variations in demand for assistance. A very important first part, logically, is -- as in Strategy 2020 -- taking care of our professionals: some professionals careful with stability in their work, logically, will do a better service. And that's why we, in human resources, published public job offers every year: in the year 2018 we offered sixty-two mistress squares and in the latter, presented a few months, twenty-seven more squares. But, in addition to stabilising people within the system, we also create new squares: in the primary care plan 2019-2021, an increase in the provision of primary health care staff in the period 2019-2021 directly related to the sexual and reproductive health care of women both in rural and urban health centres, so there will be a hundred more squares in this period between mothers and family doctors. With regard to health care for women, in this plan, measures such as the development of the service portfolio of primary care midwives, which are incorporated into the working group; the designation of reference professionals in hospital care, increasing progressively in the family guidance centres that are attended by nurses specialists in obstetrics and gynecology, matrons or maternals; or the improvement of Ianus in the field of obstetrics, with the design of the specific modules in the electronic clinical history that are deemed necessary for the development of this care activity. As I say, these are measures that are within the Primary Care Plan, and were these actions described by the professionals involved. We are also, logically, improving the infrastructure and equipment: since the Galego Health Service we are adapting the spaces and infrastructures in the field of primary and hospital care, making reforms and improving the equipment of the spaces dedicated to women's sexual and reproductive health care, as well as child health, in order to create warmer and more intimate spaces that make women feel safe and comfortable, within the Plan of the Framework Strategy for the Humanization of Health. Organizational measures have also been initiated to facilitate the access of the population to healthcare professionals and media, such as telephone consultation, teleconsultation between primary and hospital care or programs such as Telea or Connecta 72. Precisely, this program Connect 72 facilitates the contact of the primary care nurse with the woman after hospital discharge at a time of special emotional lability such as puerpery, in which she has to adapt to maternity and assume both her own care and that of the newborn creature, counting on the support of her family environment. This consultation and professional support is particularly important in the case of women at risk of social exclusion or postpartum depression. We want to respond to the health needs and problems that occur throughout the life cycle of women in an integral way, promoting the physical, mental and social health of all Galician women, and improving the quality of care provided, especially since, in many cases, we are talking about healthy women who enter for physiological problems such as delivery. To achieve these goals we have several lines of work. In sexual health care, health centres are the health promoter space that ensures access to information about contraceptive methods in the closest environment of citizenship and count on the necessary professional specialists. As regards contraception, in cases where the procedure for installing the chosen method is not available at primary care level, the person will be treated in other care devices, family guidance centres — COF — or in hospitals as well. The Galego Health Service currently has one hundred and forty-five primary care midwives and has thirteen FOCs — four in the province of Coruña, three in Lugo, four in Ourense and two in Pontevedra — and fourteen hospitals. We carry out training activities directed to our professionals for improvement and counselling in contraception and also activities of the Project plan directed to the teacher. As far as reproductive health is concerned, we have integrated technical guides, protocols and care processes. On preconceptional consultation and normal pregnancy, for example, in the procedure of health intervention in the case of gender-based violence, a specific section will be created for child abuse and obstetric abuse and an information guide for women in situations of gender-based violence. We're still working to get women to attend the puerperal consultation that provides primary care attendants after the birth of their son or daughter. As I said before, Connecta 72 facilitates the contact of the mistress in primary care with the woman. We have pre- and postnatal group health education courses given by primary care midwives. We are working to promote, protect and help breast-feeding; in fact we have created two human milk banks — one in the Álvaro Cunqueiro de Vigo and another in the CHUS de Santiago — to ensure the safe supply of breast milk for premature feeding. We also have training and health education for the care of women menopause and, even so, we approve the promotion of healthy lifestyles and the prevention of the most frequent health problems at this stage, such as the dysfunctions of the pelvic soil or osteoporosis. In prevention, we have an early prevention programme for early breast cancer. Since its implementation in 1992, 2.5 million women have participated and, according to a number of studies by the Directorate General of Public Health, between 1980 and 2012 there have been ninety-ten deaths from breast cancer in women aged between fifty and sixty-nine years. Regarding care for pregnant women, we also promote the inclusion of non-invasive prenatal test within the prenatal screening strategy and chromosome abnormalities and vaccination of all pregnant women against ferrin cough. We also have a performance protocol in the case of pregnant women or that they want a pregnancy and that they were in endemic Zika virus sites. We also have a system of information for health professionals on the teratogenic effects of drugs at risk environmental exposures. Consultations on medicines are sent by professionals to e-mail information, which is teratogens@sergas.es, from where, after a review of available scientific knowledge, a written report is submitted by email. In addition, the Public Health Emergency Foundation of Galicia - 061 offers citizens a healthcare phone through which users and users can formulate questions about various topics, including general information on the teratogenic risks of exposure to drugs. Currently there is also a specific protocol for the care of pregnant women with additive disorders. In the health areas of the Galego Health Service, there are initiatives of specific consultation for women with rheumatic, inflammatory or self-immunal diseases that want pregnancy or are in gestational periods. In healthy lifestyles we have the program Take care of me, addressed to newborns and breast-feeding mothers, which includes information on the advantages of breastfeeding, the childhood vaccination calendar, psychomotor development, growth tables and other topics; also the People alive, addressed to women at different stages of life, including information on pregnancy and tobacco; and also a continuing training offer. All of this makes up, as I said, a wide range of activities that we have done since the Galician health service in relation to the care of women. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u241	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u242	Thank you, President. Of course, we need to be constructive; we help, as far as we can, to build a law like the Pharmacy Act, and you break a law because you don't like it. That's the difference, Counselor. You say that governments always want to comply with the law, which is a tatology you'll have to see. [[Applause]] But that's not what we ask, because you often ask, when the debates are spoken about certain situations, it always appeals with a certain prudence and a good stream — you know that sometimes you laugh well — that the questions of interpellation are not those. I really went to look, see if I was wrong about questioning. I'm going to read the first question of the interpellation, the first one, eh? is it not that there are seventeen and it is the number fifteen; no, the first one: does it unequivocally support the Board of Galicia's Organic Law 2/2010, of 3 March, of sexual and reproductive health and the voluntary interruption of pregnancy? The reasons for this question can be three: first, because we can do it, that we are a parliamentary group; second, because you are not clear that you support it, and third, because we have the feeling that you are trying not only to support it, but to do everything possible to fail to do so. [[Applause]] So, Counselor, I'm going to have to ask you to answer me. I know you're going to answer what you think, because you think it's a good parliamentary exercise to answer what they want; it's not our concept of parliamentaryism, but at last that's for another debate, and this parliament allows you to answer what you want. But I also suppose that then, implicitly, he's giving me the reason. You might have asked permission to answer about this, Santiago Abascal told them not — if not, there was no possibility — and they can't answer. [[Laughter]] Because they have a doubt: if they answer that they are in favour of supporting the law -- which would be natural -- they will say that there are no agreements -- they know they have agreements; I don't know if you make them public or are signed in secret, I don't know how they do, but they won't leave them; now, if they say what they really think, that they don't like the law and that they don't do it, they'd have a problem, because they'd be showing you to be breaking the law ideologically. [[Murmurs.]] You know what about "you come to politics"; you don't even make politics with the law, they make a much worse issue, which is to impose your political criterion on the law. I don't know if it sounds like this, that he's often accused. They're endangering people's health because they don't like a law, and there's a court sentence that says so. You put a woman's life in danger and prevented her from having children again because they don't like the law. That's indecent for a government, Counselor, indecent! I don't say, say a sentence and say it to a judge. [[Mr. Vázquez Almuínña pronounces words that are not perceived.]] You put a woman's life in danger and prevented her from having children again because they didn't like the law, because they delayed the trial unjustly, because they demanded evidence that they were not necessary, because none of the procedures they did were justified; the procedure was delayed and so what happened happened. Three years ago, and no one gave an answer. This can happen again, because they didn't do anything. And what we're asking is, if you haven't done anything, will it be because you're in agreement with what happened and you think it's -- as they say from the waiting lists -- an anecdote when there's any? Because, if so, we have a problem, or at least we realize there's a problem; you might not feel it. Because they haven't done anything and they're constantly answering all the voices that say that that law is unfair, outraged and insubstantial to a country, which is the matter of the feminist mob or I don't know what nonsense some say about it, because then you're going to be holding those things; or they have political leaders who talk about what this is about Neanderthals. That's the political party you're in — I think it's militating, excuse me if it isn't — and participates in a government that supports it; that's the political party that's running today. Therefore, we of course have that doubt. If you don't answer it is because you don't want it, because you can't or because you don't think it's important. We believe that yes and therefore we want to know if you have any problem with that law that makes them fall short, because it's obvious that they don't do it, and a judge says it. They don't comply with that law, they don't have enough resources, they're not the necessary resources to meet it, and you're putting that matter to rest. So we're worried, and you don't leave us any quieter, because you don't answer. I've been taught that when someone hides, he has something to hide, and when he has something to hide, he's not proud, and I understand they're not proud. They already break up with that ultra-right; you're capable, you're a serious party capable of returning to a natural, democratic and logical zone. If they're not capable, then they have a problem, but they don't make society guilty of the problem that you have a tension with that ultra-right unacceptable. And if not, Vox is passed on, which is the best they can do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u243	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Close the interrogation, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u244	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Indignity is what you do, which uses judgments to talk about very serious issues. If you have any record of what you say, you must go to the criminal court, because it seems to me very serious. [[Balbordo.]] You must go to the criminal scene, and if not, you're irresponsible. [[Applause]] Look, what you can't ask the government to answer is to do the interpellation on one side and on the other, saying what we're going to answer. You've devoted a first minute to talking, like in a television debate, that we judge women. [[Murmurs.]] Who judges them, do you? [[Murmurs.]] Not us. He's committed to saying we broke the law. [[Balbordo.]] I, if I see that someone is a government and does not comply with the law, would go to trial. Yes, yes, but you're saying so. [[Balbordo.]] [[Balbordo.]] The third sentence he made in his speech speaks of votes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u245	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u246	You speak of vows; you bring this here and you speak of vows, for something will be. [[Murmurs.]] He talks about Vox, Santiago Abascal and the blue PP logo behind him; these are his phrases to talk about something very serious like women's sexual health and reproductive capacity. That's the sad thing. [[Applause]] So we provide data of actions in which we are working on everything that women represent health, in everything; since my first intervention, all the above. You — as I say — ask yourself about the voluntary interruption of pregnancy and also have the Joint well equipped, in material and human terms, primary care centers both urban and rural in relation to the care of women. That didn't say anything because it doesn't matter, did it? We do have a lot to say: as I said in the first intervention, with all these actions of all kinds — assistance, training... and the second, in which we speak of the voluntary interruption of pregnancy, that we comply exactly always with the established regulations. Yes; you say what you want, I say what we're doing. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u247	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u248	We continue to work to ensure the quality of care and the provision of health services with the means at their disposal in the territory of Galicia. There's also something very important that you don't say: the woman can choose where she wants to do the voluntary interruption of pregnancy. Precisely that, freedom, it's a part that you don't seem interested in; however, many women want to effect that right by choosing where they want to do it, and we're not going into it. [[Murmurs.]] We have the capacity, we are democratic and we like, in addition, that rights are exercised individually, not by imposition. [[Murmurs.]] We continue to advance and take steps to address the voluntary interruption of pregnancy: the elaboration and dissemination of VTE care circuits between fourteen and twenty-two weeks of management; the establishment of reference centres for VTEs for more than twenty-two weeks, which are a major complication — which previously said that they were to be moved out of the community—, at this time we have two references in Galicia: the Cunqueiro Alvaro in Vigo and the Hospitalario de Ourense Complex; including in the management agreements that all the public hospitals in Greece carry out these interruptions, as such and elaborated with this protocol, up to the twenty-two weeks of expertise in all centres; the development of an instruction on how to act in any case of VTEs that is covered in the Organic Law of March 3, sexual and reproductive health and voluntary interruption of pregnancy, for the knowledge of all the best scientific information of Sergas involved; the extension of two-inves with the number of clinical committees to study the duration of applications. The attention to sexual and reproductive health of women in recent years responds to the needs shown by women and to scientific evidence collected in the recommendations of the Women's Sexual and Reproductive Health Strategy and also in the Strategy for Normal Birth Care of the National Health System, which implies a shift of care focus, moving from a biomedical model to a holistic and gender rights approach, focusing on the needs of women or their children and their families, thus favoring women's decision-making. We continue to work on measures that allow us to move forward in the development of the Comprehensive Plan of Assistance to Women, promoting health policies that, with a gender perspective and cross-sectional perspective, address specific problems, training and sensitizing health personnel, promoting healthy lifestyles, developing health promotion actions and promoting coordination between primary and hospital care. As I say, we keep working. For us, within the DNA of health care, it is the improvement that continues our objective, and of course we will continue to guarantee the sexual and reproductive rights of women in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u249	Thank you, Counselor. Da María de la Concepción Burgo López and D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Government of Greece in relation to the sector of performing arts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u250	Mrs. Burgo has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u251	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Counselor. First of all, I would like to greet the representatives of the Association of Actors and Actresses of Galicia, who are here with us, also concerned about this subject that we are going to introduce to you, Counsellor, to see if we can all find solutions or at least a desire for solution. The theme that we bring at this time — as you know — is the Galego Dramatic Center, which was created thirty-five years ago as a response to the demands of the stage sector and which is the most important cultural production unit in Galicia, but which is suffering, fundamentally from the arrival of the PP government to power with Mr. Feijóo, a very worrying process of abandonment that is being actually denounced by the entire profession, demonstrating an concern about this continuing loss of weight from a centre that had to be emblematic for the Galician culture; complaints and complaints made mainly by the Galician Actors and Actresses Association, which brings together — as you know, Counsellor — much of the profession of interpretation and scene management, which are concerned by this situation of the Galego Dramatic Center, but which do not find positive answers by either the Council of Culture or the AGADIC. Problems really began from the arrival of Feijóo to power. Let's just remember that first year of government, where there was no director of the Dramatic Center, but then they went on to make a little synthesis: a brutal budget reduction, indeed, of more than 50 percent of the budgets of the Galego Dramatic Center, which practically left him without any possibility of working; in parallel, a reduction of very important activity, with a very small production itself that at these times only one work a year, with very short lists, in this case ten interpreters, but they were even less in some of the previous; and a problem of distribution also very serious, because the works of the Galego Dramatic Center actually didn't turn, the last time they were just in seven Galician cities. We pay the Galego Drama Center with taxes from all the Greeks, but there are very few Welsh people who can really benefit from it or enjoy it. All of this, coupled with the lack of co-productions, problems with residences, not called by the Advisory Council and a process of bureaucracy, is leaving it without being what it should be: an impulse to the theatre sector, which is its obligation. Nor can you develop this work of taking the culture of Galicia to the public and creating new audiences; a function of the Galego Dramatic Center that is unable to create. In addition to all these problems with which we have long, since 2016 has changed the system of selection of casts of works — not before, it was in 2016, because before it was used this — with systems that do not adjust to the labor reality of interpretation or creative freedom needed in the direction of the scene. Above all, the calls made by AGADIC were accused of lack of transparency — and really when you see the calls that way — and also of alleged irregularities. They were so important all these facts that several members of the court resigned, and also resigned Tito Asorey, who was to be the director of one of the works, of Mars de Carnival, of Valle-Inclán. I mean, it's a bad enough situation for the Council to say something, which you didn't say. What he did was change the system in 2018, change it by a system that really seems dangerous to us, a dangerous background. It was to hire the alleged production of the Galego Drama Center to a private theatre company, which had to deal with dramaturgy, translation and hire a part of the interpreters; the other part was hired by AGADIC with the previous system, which we didn't understand either. In any case, I don't think this can be considered a production of itself. All of this, above all, has been complicated with the resignation of the director of the Dramatic Center very recently; there have been repeated resignations, Counsellor: he has resigned a director years ago — he has been terminated — he has resigned the next director and resigned the current director. I think they're also matters of concern to you, I imagine, right? We want to think that this resignation does not imply a new paralysis of the center. There are, therefore, two kinds of problems, Counsellor: a lack of political will to drive the Galego Dramatic Center as a production centre and not to be left to fade, and the problems resulting from a lack of legal frameworks to suit the needs of the artistic sector and cultural production, to which they do not seem to seek solutions. This second problem — which I know is what you are going to answer — is not the only problem, it is not a single problem of Galicia or the Dramatic Center; it is a common problem for other cultural production centres, such as national centres — the National Center of Classical Theatre and other artistic production centers — and also those of autonomy. And so, because we have to look for answers, because everyone and everyone in the sector has the same problem — the public sector of culture has the same problem — there was a meeting at the Ministry, the State Council for the Performing Arts and Music in December 2018, where solutions were discussed, at least possible solutions, where problems and solutions were presented. And you don't know what's going on, but among all the members of the Culture Council and the members of the AGADIC, no one had a moment to approach this meeting in Madrid. So they don't know what happened there or any possible solutions. Well, with all this — which is surprising, indeed — the whole sector has called for a meeting to deal with these problems, to deal with all the problems: the problems I have reported of activity, budgeting, etc. —that I am not going to repeat — and the problems of seeking accommodation of legal formulas and legal formulas of regulations so that it is easier to use a model that facilitates artistic creation and facilitates the development of contests of these characteristics. And the truth is that it is possible to look for it, Counsellor, because — as you know — the Law of Creation of AGADIC is not fully developed, and the Law of AGADIC left a gap to create a different entity to AGADIC to manage production centres, also the Galego Dramatic Center, which has not developed; it is in the disposition — as you know perfectly — of the second transitional. We have to find a solution to the Galego Dramatic Center; and we could say all this, and even with greater problems, to the Coreographic Center, because the Coreographic Center is also absolutely abandoned. We're talking about this right now, but it's even more abandoned if it fits the Coreographic Center. We would have to find a solution for the two production centres to have some different legal entity that would allow greater autonomy; that would allow at least a facility for listing selection procedures, and that, of course, respect equal opportunities, but also freedom of creation. It is necessary to find some kind of formula, and for that we believe, and of course we defend the socialists who must meet with the sector, the situation that the sector has asked for and which you have not done. There was a meeting where only if you wanted to talk about selection of casts and procedures, but you know, Counsellor, that the problems of the Galego Dramatic Center go further, as well as the problems of the entire stage arts sector, but in this case I have just mentioned. Political responses are needed for this centre to continue to be what it had to be: the impulse and the ship, at least, of dramatic art in Galicia. I hope you can answer a number of questions that you have and I'm not going to ask you, because you have them in your hands, but I do value this situation and, above all, tell me that you're going to meet with the sector to find answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u252	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Reply by the Councillor for Culture and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u253	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. I also welcome the representatives of the Galician Actors and Actresses Association. Well, the truth is, ladies and gentlemen, when the Socialist Party talks about autonomy and it talks about independence, the truth is that there is a lot of contradiction and there is a lot of confusion. In fact, to me it was very difficult for me to really grasp what you are suggesting: knowing whether they are betting on greater control of the Galician Agency of Cultural Industries and, in this case, greater control of the Dramatic Center or whether they are betting on greater independence. I perceived a huge contradiction both in his words and — by the way — in the written part of his initiative. Because, on the one hand, they want an independent Drama Center — so they say — but on the other hand, they also want more control over the works that occur and the activity that takes place in the center itself. I say one thing or another. I understand that in the political sphere on the left there is a certain dispute over a certain political control of art, in general. The truth is, from the German Government and from our political formation there we are quite different. We believe in a society and a Dramatic Center that is absolutely open, plural and free and that has real autonomy, that is, it can continue to work freely, producing freely and according to laws, just as it has done in recent years. I am sure, Your Honor, that you — just like me — and your formation — just like mine — do not believe or believe in cultural inquisition; I am absolutely sure it is. But it's also true — and here comes the contradiction — that you pose a dilemma between independence, autonomy and control. What do you mean when you talk about independence or autonomy? What are you talking about? I'm going to tell you how the Galego Dramatic Center works: first, this center has its own budget — greater or smaller, but own — that it manages and manages with total autonomy; secondly, it has its own competence and ability to distribute its own productions without any interference or political interference, and thirdly, its director — or director, as is now the case — has full competences to decide on activity and theatrical production, both on own production and on co-production. What do you understand about autonomy? What do you understand by controlling? I would like you to clarify it, because I am also sure, Your Honor, that you — like me — understand that autonomy cannot be controlled or contracted by professionals without open and competitive processes. I'm sure you agree with me on this, that the professionals who hire the Drama Center cannot be hired — if I may say so — to finger. A public company — and the Drama Centre is a public company, in this case of theatre — has to ensure conditions of recruitment in equality, transparency and non-discrimination and it has to offer the same opportunities to all aspirants; it is no longer by moral principle, it is the law that directs it. In addition, as you know, different tables of dialogue with the sector have been called for in recent years to try to seek or break this intended churidian node that arises between the recruitment of actors and the claims to make a greater — in this case — freedom of choice without the procedures — we call it administrative — which marks and sets the Public Procurement Act. At these tables there were representatives of companies, actors, dramatists, programmers, and the truth is there was at the time a unanimous agreement, in such a way that the recruitment price should be made by promoting competition and that it was not a unilateral decision of each director, noting precisely that this was one of the main missions of a public company. By the way, Madam, this agreement was reached just before certain participants got up from the table and left the dialogue in this case; a dialogue that, even ahead of it, we remain ready to resume without any problems. Indeed, Mrs Burgo, the Galego Drama Center has been operating for thirty-five years. It is the reference center, without a doubt, of the Greek scene; it has been since its foundation, many years ago, in 1984, until today. It is also true that in the last three decades, in the last thirty years, many things have changed. Obviously, Galician society has evolved, cultural and theatrical activity has also evolved, and it has also evolved the way to access and enjoy culture; everything has been transformed. Today in Galicia we have a wide range of offers: we have private companies that are able to represent any type of assembly, and that is the great success of the Galician theatre, that there are companies that are able to represent any type of assembly; and we have high quality cultural equipment scattered throughout the entire Galician geography, in any part of Galicia we have access to an infrastructure and a cultural equipment of the highest level. And obviously the goals or mission of the Drama Center thirty years ago cannot be the same as today. In fact, thirty years ago there was more self-programming, there was more self-production, because the sector was much weaker. Today there must be production itself, but co-production must basically be fostered. Why? Because there are high-quality professional companies that can do it very well, by the way. However, Mrs. Burgo, the reality of the theatrical scene that you bring us here, to this chamber, is certainly not how you paint it. Now, very recently, the Galician Council of Culture has edited and published a diagnosis made by the Galician Council of Culture, where it tells us that indicators of private consumption of culture and attendance at shows have shown a great deal of good behavior in recent years. You told me about the budgets: you should know — I am sure you know, what happens is that you do not say — that in the last five years the budgets of the Board devoted to the performing arts grew progressively, overcoming — I insist — the investment of the years prior to the crisis, where the management of these production centers was of the PSOE-Bloque Bipartite. And so, in recent years, there has been a very remarkable increase in the shows scheduled: from 718 theatrical shows in 2013 to 1,326 in 2018. In addition, the number of spectators has grown markedly in recent years: you have seen that in 2009 there were one hundred and forty thousand spectators on Agadic cultural networks — one hundred and forty thousand in 2009 — and today there are over two hundred and twenty thousand. It means that we don't create public, that the theater is being smashed, that everything is being destroyed -- yet there's a very remarkable increase in the audience, right? One hundred and forty thousand to two hundred thousand. You were also talking about the fact that there is no rotation of your own productions: man! Divine words were the ten Town Councils, among them, Madrid. You were talking about going to big cities: because look, some cities have never been because they never asked for it; some of the big cities — for example, Lugo — never asked for it. [[Murmurs.]] And it went to municipalities like Vigo, like Rianxo, like O Barco, like Ourense, like Cangas, etc. He says there are no co-productions; man! last year there were four: Paths—of Butaca Zero—, Arnoia, Arnoia, Elisa and Marcela and Anarchisms. The truth is, it's very easy to override the serial arguments that aren't really supported and not based on the data. You were talking about a meeting of INAEM: we actually know that meeting, we know it happened, and we also know that in seven months since the first meeting we've had no results or proposals on the table. I wish you'd come out and wish you those conclusions or those proposals were of interest, but in the last seven months, the truth is we haven't met them. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, everything is likely to improve, but we must continue to work and respect and guarantee the independence of the artistic fact, the transparency and plurality of public procurement processes and the freedom and autonomy of professionals in the sector. And it's over, ladies and gentlemen. You brought here the name of a person we respect a lot and with whom we collaborate a lot, and here you're saying that you seem to have resigned because you were in disagreement, that you felt badly treated or that you didn't like it at the Galego Dramatic Center. You know how I — I'm sure — this person is going to leave us — and we deeply regret it — because he's going to take on a very remarkable professional improvement, of which we very much welcome. But at no time is the fact that leaving the Galego Drama Center is a negative fact for the Galego Drama Center; on the contrary, it is a positive fact, because it is called to greater responsibilities in the Spanish scene world. [[Applause]] With which, thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, let us hope that next you can bring more rigour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u254	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counselor, the subconscious makes him see things and, above all, listen to things that don't exist. I never once said the word "control," and you actually gave it to me, I don't know why. I'd like you to listen to me, because even if you listen to me and, above all, even if you listen to the sector, you better understand things, look. Because you won't understand me, but I'm saying the same thing as the professional sector of interpreters and scene management. [[Applause]] She meets with them and I'm sure they can explain things to her much better than I do. What do we want and what did I say? Well, maybe I didn't say it, but I'm going to repeat it, see if we understand each other this time. Agadic's creation law is not developed, and the second transitional provision says that production centres are registered with Agadic "while a specific entity is not created for the management and coordination of cultural production centres of public ownership". Do you want to create this entity or do you want to create it? Because what the sector is asking for — and here we are transmitting, and we are in agreement with the sector — is that we need to provide the Galego Dramatic Centre with a proper legal entity with sufficient autonomy and budgeting, the revision of the co-production and residence system and the reformulation of distribution mechanisms in search of selection procedures that combine all elements, creation and equal opportunities. Let's see, Counsellor, aren't you surprised that you're just using this public selection system, that we can't find any other production centers using the same system? What's the matter, what are you smarter than all of Spain? Well, maybe it's better to look at what's being done out here, compare the different systems and achieve a system that makes situations easier. As I figured out perfectly, you didn't answer the other problems in the center. Budgets when they grow? Because that's not enough. And from the relationship with private companies, look: a co-production at all is to leave production own in the hands of a private company through... No, that's not co-production. [[Mr. Rodríguez González utters words that are not perceived.]] If you want, you meet with the sector, which will explain better to you than me that it is a co-production. No, that's outsourcing a service and saying that there's a production itself, that it's not, but that's not a co-production either. [[Mr. Rodríguez González utters words that are not perceived.]] On the other hand, you're with which Lugo doesn't call the Galego Dramatic Center: it's that I personally called him as a cultural conceler! So maybe you need to check the data you have, because it's in front of the Galego Drama Center. Look, the Galician Council of Culture: read, please, well the diagnosis of the Galician Council of Culture. I don't know if you remember — but I remember you — that the Galician Council of Culture made a report in 2014 that advocated and said that it was absolutely necessary what the sector is asking for and all the opposition from the beginning: a plan of scenic arts, what is needed is a plan of scenic arts. And I don't say it here, without more; say it — if you like it better — the Council of Galician Culture. Just like it's necessary to make a law of performing arts. Where is he? It had already been done by the previous Government, and also the sector sent one. They don't want to do it, so that's what you see, and that's what's really necessary to boost the sector. I'm very concerned about this idea that the whole theater ecosystem in Galicia has changed a lot and that there are many private companies that can do any kind of assembly. It's true, of course it's true. But does that mean that the Galego Dramatic Center is becoming more and more unnecessary? You say it, because, with your political acts and your politics, you are saying it, without production, without budgets, increasingly poorer, with less activity. What does that mean? And, please, Counselor, don't put words in my mouth that I didn't say. Whenever you want, we talk about the control of culture; when you want, we talk about the ways in which you try to control culture -- that we all know it -- and, when you want, I explain how it does and what happens when culture has it on the right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u256	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Close the interrogation by the Culture and Tourism Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u257	Very well, Mrs. Burgo, you and I have been no longer conciliators for many years; you in Lugo and I in Lalin, in my village. But I'm just telling you, and you can't beat me up, that in recent years the city of Lugo hasn't been, and always ruled the Socialist Party, that can't be bounced. The truth is, Mrs. Burgo, I'm listening to her. And I'm glad to hear it. But, above all, I read it. And I'm happy to read it too. And in his initiative he literally speaks of "control." I literally read: "Loving the Agadic the control of the work." But he escaped here too. You also mentioned here clearly how we're going to leave a co-production of a public company in the hands of a private company. That's why I'm talking about a contradiction in his speech. Because, on the one hand, it seeks or presents the need for greater autonomy, but on the other hand, it tells us of greater control. That's why it's very hard to know what we're saying, because it's in favour of autonomy or control. And we've already told him that the Drama Center has full autonomy of operation and no political control. We told him and I told him on the previous initiative. And, of course, you keep saying and throwing data. He's talking about a few budgets. There could be more, obviously. But there's more than in 2009, there's more than in their budget, when Galicia, in 2009, was full of resources and money. There is more budget in the field of performing and musical arts today than in its time in 2009. It's also true that there have been very difficult years, it's also very true. But, fortunately, in the last five years we've been witnessing a progressive increase every year in the budget devoted to performing and musical arts. You say this is abandonment. I gave him the data: we went from 718 functions in 2013 to 1,326 last year. I know it's a purely quantitative data, but it's a data that measures the health of the sector, because there's more theatrical activity in the country as a whole. And another fact that's also difficult to question: you say they haven't been created or they're not betting on public creation. We passed — as I said — from 140,907 — in particular in 2009 — to 202,866 in 2018, in the previous year. I mean, there's a remarkable increase in the number of the Greeks and the Greeks who attend theater shows. It's data that I don't question, it's absolutely objective data. And obviously you put us in a dead end. We're asked if we're smarter than the others. We're not smarter than the others, we just have rigour and we have the data on the table. And in the field of public procurement, we comply with the law, simply and simply comply with the law. And, of course, continue to deny, continue to question, continue to put on trial the support of a sector of great importance to the culture of Galicia, as are the performing arts, when on the one hand budgets are increased, on the other hand the number of shows increases, on the other hand the number of spectators increases and on the other hand we have a greater number of companies with greater capacity and with greater possibility of performing shows across the country, is simply denying the evidence. And I've already told you before, and I repeat it at this, that with regard to the meeting that concerns you so much about Inaem, some of the issues that were discussed here, or that were talked about there, so some colleagues said, these are issues that we fortunately have been doing and developing with remarkable success in Galicia for a long time. Because one thing, gentlemen, is to say that it's going to be done, and another thing is to do. Because since the first meeting—it seems so bad to you that there was no representative of the board—there have been seven months, eh! seven months! And in seven months, as you know, there was practically no progress. In any case, we have a strategy for the cultural sector, we have a strategy for the scenic arts sector. We have no doubt that we have to seek a great deal of agreement to guarantee the future of the Galego Dramatic Center, we have to seek a consensus to address social challenges, social changes in cultural behaviors, in the way we consume culture, in the ways of offering the culture that exists and that are not the same as those of thirty years ago. And we have to keep working with the agents involved and also look for legal formulas. But from there to drawing, to pose, a scenario as black as what you're suggesting there's just an abyss. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u258	Thank you, Counselor. Interpellation by Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and D. Marcos Cal Ogango, of the G.P. of In Marea, on the policy of the Greek Government on equal treatment and non-discrimination of lesbians, gays, transsexuals, bisexuals and intersexuals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u259	Mrs. Quinteiro has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u260	Thank you, President. Good afternoon and welcome, Counselor. Today we came to ask you about the law passed in 2014 of equality and non-discrimination of LGTBI people, because, unfortunately, despite the fact that the People's Party was one of the groups that approved this legislation—after that, yes, to make it largely out of content— five years later we see how this legislation turned into a completely wet role for the Government party. They didn't move forward with the effective measures nor did the legislation itself. It's been five years and we have to say that the balance is totally negative, totally dramatic. Because the worst of all, as I said, is that most articles containing this legislation are systematically violated. As I say, although it is insufficient, we consider this legislative framework at that time a very important step forward for the rights of LGTBI people. Speaking of some specific articles, it took a long time, longer than the legislation itself took itself into its additional provision, to render accounts to this Parliament. And when they did so with that report, we have to say that it was a totally sound report, almost a simple description of legislation and a couple of concepts or meanings associated with this issue, but not a report, as it should be, of evaluation, of compliance with law and measures. They even took measures that you didn't do yourself to form in that report. This is one of the articles of the law that don't comply. The same is true when we talk about the study that collects Article 12 in relation to the work area of LGTBI people. We would like to ask you — rather than that report, and we do not know it — what concrete measures they have taken to avoid, as you know, this very high percentage of unemployment and so high percentage of social exclusion in the collective. They also don't guarantee that people aren't pathologized, just the opposite. The unit that was sold here as a non-patological unit is quite the opposite. And even today we were talking to the collectives and associations, and the people directly affected themselves, and the families that accompany the people who go to this unit, say it's like a kind of ghetto. People have to move from their Town Hall to Santiago de Compostela, and still above all they don't have the resources they're demanding in this reference unit, just the same as ever: an absolutely limited, absolutely pathological look, which is exclusively speaking from the mental health field. As far as education is concerned, they also suspended because they made a protocol. And another of our questions goes about how they spread this educational protocol, that's the first part. But, above all, what measures have been taken to assess how this protocol is being implemented in schools. Because the protocol is fine, but if you're not spreading it, if you don't know all the professionals, and especially if you don't put it into practice as you should, it's obviously not enough. We therefore believe that this repeated failure to comply with most of the articles that make up this law is evidenced that it is not a political priority for the People's Party at all. And I think we've seen a change of speech in recent times. It's true that, fortunately, we don't have to hear homophobic comments as they did not so long ago, because apples and pears weren't that long ago, and the bond with drug addiction wasn't that long ago either. And they were people directly linked to the People's Party. I believe that, even though they changed their speech, that they removed these homophobic phrases that directly attacked the collective, they still have the same retrograde mindset, because that is evidenced by this repeated non-compliance with the articles of legislation. And they also give evidence of very specific issues. They voted against a gender identity law that was essential, that was urgent for our country. The people, the collectives, demanded it as an urgent, very important need, and you voted against it. And you don't have to look back a couple years ago. Even today, in the morning, they refused a proposal not of minimum law. It was an initiative that should be fully assumed. Most of the points called for compliance with the legislation that you yourself passed. That's why we believe that, despite the speeches they make, they haven't internalized this as a political priority. They don't respect people's freedom, and that's why it's so important that when they vote in this plenary session, when they refuse such fundamental initiatives for people's lives, when they vote for fundamental initiatives for people's lives, they think about a moment when they feel these people feel when they get to the doctor, and they have to listen often to comments that bring nothing at all, that they are treated as if they were sick when they are not sick, when it's not a disorder. They don't have to listen to totally unnecessary questions about who they were playing with, who they didn't play with; they don't have to hear that because they have genitals or others they're one person or another. Because they know exactly what I am. What they don't need is guardianship or segregation or anything at all. I would also like you to think of the constant questioning these people suffer, that they have thought of what it means not to recognize themselves in their own identification document, and of the implications that you have to hear names that sound alien to you and not even recognize you when they call you. So that's what people have to live in our country because you refuse to legislate specifically on the trans issue. As I say, they only ask for freedom, to be people with decision-making ability without anyone coming to tell them what to do, what to do. They know perfectly well, they're people who know perfectly what they are. You don't have any psychiatrist to come and analyze if that person really can be said to be a woman. Above all, as I say, with those questions. It would be good if they did these tests, for surely many women with female genitals, as you understand, wouldn't even pass those tests and vice versa. That is why I understand that health is fundamental — in fact, it is one of the central parts of our initiative — because it is one of the worst roads these people have to live. Because violence continues to exist, oppression continues to exist, constant explanations continue to exist and constant questioning of people who do not adapt to normative parameters. And the figures are terrible, they're dramatic, because all of this reality means that around half the trans people thought at some point in their lives they took their lives. There's a number of suicides in the very high trans-persons. These suicides are a failure of the system; they are murders, we could say. Because the system failed, they didn't give him the resources. If you feel all the time questioned, all the time guarded, all the time without the ability to say what it is... because it's just as simple issues as what you think you are, what you are. And above all, we understand that there are no speeches — because we've been listening to speeches for a long time — it's worth making. And, as I say, the fact storytelling of recent times is not at all positive. Many initiatives have been rejected—they have now rejected one, not the first time—, they have rejected that law so worked by the rights of trans people without any argument. Because they can't give it, because if they said the real arguments behind that rejection, they would be very bad in public opinion. Because there's a feeling already against homophobic speeches. But when such issues are accepted, violence is also legitimized. That's right, it's becoming legitimate, because all these people suffer and live with aggression and violence throughout their lives. And today what happens is that it absolutely depends on good luck. There's a very high level of discretion. You can have a lot of family, social support, or you can have none. You can be very lucky and have a doctor or a doctor who cares for you in a great way, of course there are them with a lot of sensitivity; you can have an educational center that leaves you, that respects you and supports you throughout the process. But it can also be the opposite side, you can feel completely alone. And the Administration has to respond to all these situations as well. It can't be that anyone else wants to take his life for feeling alone, for feeling a strange self, because there's no kind of reason. And by the way, in recent times we have seen a retreat. I hope it will not be consolidated, but in recent times the speeches by its partners are demolition. People who return to something as past as saying that homosexuality is a disease, with which they are constantly instilling hatred. And with those people, who are the same people who deny male violence, there should be no pact, absolutely no pact, because it's people who are constantly generating violence. And I'm done. Being diverse is a pride, so it should be for the whole set of people that we are in this House, it's a pride. But as long as legislation is not amended, as long as 100 percent of all articles that are already in approved legislation and progress are not being complied with, we're not going to be able to say that we live in a free society and in a society that defends people's freedom. Because just that we're talking about today, about freedom and rights, don't forget what we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u261	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u262	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Quinteiro, you said that our group was the only one who didn't recognize it in that respect, because then in everything else you're the huge defender of everything that has to do with the LGTBI collective, with the gender identity. And the rest, especially the People's Party, we have no right to talk about it. For I am here in the name of the Government; if not, you would think we have no right to speak. He said it was one of the groups that passed the law in 2014. No, no, tell the things as they are. You, your predecessors — AGE, at that time — were the only ones who didn't pass the law, the only ones. Both PSOE and BNG also approved that law — pioneers, by the way, in the state —. You no longer wanted to approve it at that time, surely because you would think they were the only ones — I was the impression you gave me here today — with the right to talk about it, defend it, and say that you are aware of what there is a lot to do, that you've done a lot, but there's still a lot to do, and of course. And, of course, we're talking about homophobia here, we're talking about retrogrades, that the balance is dramatic, non-existent. Even so, we were talking about rejecting a BNG GNP. In fact, we call for a point of order. There were a lot of spaces for the deal, there were a lot of amendments that we thought about, and we kept thinking they'd improve the deal so it could be effective and so they could keep doing things. Of course, maybe it's not exactly interesting to reach agreements with the People's Party on this subject, because then all that hypothesis that you are the only ones and that the rest of us don't feel this or we have a right if we see that it's an absolute lie, an absolute lie! [[Applause]] I'm very glad: you said -- it seems to me that it was Mrs. Solla in 2014 -- that this, the law, was a mere propaganda, that it wasn't worth anything. He was not going to have any effectiveness, and all that was there was wet paper, that his application would not suppose any effectiveness. Today you come here asking us to apply the law because, in your opinion, it's not being applied properly. So it turns out that the law was good, the law could be effective. Of course I understand everything you say, and ask me how we're applying it. Indeed, at that moment they probably made a mistake and — I insist — the only group in the House that did not approve it. It's much more useful than just headlines for the press, as they said at the time, five years ago. Ask me about specific law enforcement issues. And that's what I'm going to try to answer. Interpellation has broad grounds and specific questions. And I, as always I have to come here fulfilling my obligation, what I try is to answer what the Government is doing to specific questions. Out of there, I know -- and I think it's important to highlight it because this ultimately is a dialogue between two -- you, with the things you said, part of the basis that, since we have no interest in this subject and we're absolutely opposite, we wouldn't have the right or apply the means. But we're applying them. We're a government that pushed this law, and, with most to approve it at that time, in 2014, it picked up an initiative and pushed it because we had most of it. I know you've upset them a lot with the People's Party, but it was the People's Party that, with most of it, allowed it to be approved. And we're very proud to develop it from that moment on. [[Applause]] Ask me about the medical field. Look, the law is clear. Article 20: "Health care will be guaranteed, according to the need and clinical criteria, practices and therapies related to transsexuality." Article 19: "The competent health counsellor shall ensure that information on homosexuality, bisexuality and transsexuality is collected by the World Health Organization to all people working in the field of health, both in the public and in private or concerted, so as to ensure that these professionals know" — and, of course, apply — "that information". Therefore, given all this, taking into account also a personal conviction and compliance with the law, the professionals of the Galician Health Service respect transsexual persons, their different gender identities and, of course, depatologist their application and therefore all the treatment they give them. You come here and say no, that's all the opposite. People arrive there, to a reference service, indeed, that has already attended to more than eighty patients in Galicia who attend these services, and their families. They have it in Santiago, with magnificent professionals to care for minors, in the CHUS, reference unit in Galicia. And he works in a multidisciplinary way — endocrinology, mental health and surgery. You say no, you say you don't care. Well, at last he speaks ill of these professionals, and I come here to speak well because they do it well, believe in his work and apply them very effectively. [[Applause]] He says they have to get out of their municipalities — I think it's perfectly understandable — to be attended to in the reference unit, it's well equipped. Any minor transgender who lives in Galicia can be cared for in this unit. I mean, it's been 80 patients since it was created. And, of course, we continue to conduct training courses for health professionals — still testing HIV prevention, 285,000, almost 300,000 — dedicated to testing this group in 2019. In 2018 thousands of preventive ITS packages directed specifically to this collective were distributed. Therefore, health professionals apply the law, and apply it effectively and with conviction. Tell me about the centers I love you. You say they don't do anything at all, this is a recurring thing. They have said since 2009 that the centers I love you were going to be removed. And it wasn't that but the opposite, they do more and more functions. And a lot of young people come to them who weren't there before. Well, they systematically attack every plot they're dedicated to. They're also dedicated to this, Mrs Quinteiro, they're still performing rapid HIV detection tests in these centres that you say are dismantled. On the contrary, they do more functions and more varied; 6,000 young men and women went to these centers to formulate some doubts or queries. I say that something we'll be doing right, and I say -- you might think otherwise -- that thanks there don't go, but all the trouble. The same can be said of the attention to the LGTBI collective of women's information centres. You are absolutely against — today we were talking about this in the morning — that they are benchmarks to address these groups. We believe that their distribution in the territory, their knowledge, the magnificent professionals — almost all women — who work there, make them suitable centers to attend to this collective as well — of course the necessary training, which is being given as well. You've decided that no, that these professionals don't know, and therefore they're not prepared, that they have no right and they have no capacity to attend to this collective. We think it's all the opposite, and I think it's us who are right. Of course, with reinforcements; of course, with training and, of course, with guarantees. Ask me also about employment situations. There's a lot left to do, no doubt. We know the statistics just like you. Hey! but things have been done, just like in other ways, since the law came into force. This year 2019 — not to go any further — the help of the Galicia Programme employs, as you know, to facilitate the training and recruitment of the most difficult groups to find a job — and this is without doubt — including an important novelty: the increase in 25% of the basic accounts, dedicated to encouraging transsexual people to find employment, in addition to the specific demands of this collective. In addition, this increase applies for the first time to the self-employment promotion programme and to the social economy programme this year 2019. And there's another important thing. A specific protocol was agreed with the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate to manage in a specific way and in a preference the complaints that anyone in the LGTBI group makes about discrimination at work and even discrimination at the time of access to that work. And I also hope it's of special interest, now that it's put into operation, the Observatory against Sexual Orientation Discrimination and Gender Identity, and I want to think that it's not a coincidence that you're presenting this interpellation. Listen, if it's an action-reaction movement, I'm very glad that we're still doing things for you to react. It's actually running this observatory and we expect a lot of things. Then in the reply I suppose it will give me time to talk more specifically about the start of this observatory and the things that we hope will be done with everyone's collaboration. Education — for as long as I'm left — In 2016 we presented an educational protocol to ensure equality, non-discrimination and freedom of gender. To what end? To advance in the attention of the diversity of the student, and of course also to meet specifically the needs, demands and discriminatory situations that could be given in the student LGTBI. Shall we spread it? Of course, and in many ways. First in the professor himself. It's already advanced, and it's known to more than 300 educational guides and guides from all over Galicia, one of the favorite groups that we want them to meet, treat and manage in the first place. We sent in 2019, to facilitate your consultation and use — I say because you asked for your dissemination — a folder to all the Greek educational centers with all these protocols, which are also available on the website of the Education Council. In 2016 we will present the first Action Plan for Equality in the Education Centres of Galicia, 2016-2020, with a very large activity and dissemination about all that has to do with harassment, non-discrimination and equality, specific objectives that are of great interest to the LGTBI school collective. We have, and we have also been pioneers here, a matter of free self-sustainment, gender equality -- already in the 2016-2017 course -- a first-level educational tool. I think it's important, I think it's brave, and I already say that there was no other autonomous community. Now there's a higher FP formative cycle, promotion of gender equality, which also touches all of these issues. Finally, Mrs. Quinteiro, we're doing a lot of things. The law now fulfills five years of vigil, has a lot of field unfolded, a lot of fields to develop, and we can do it among all of us. Of course, if you think you're the only ones who believe all this, the only ones who can speak and the only ones who have the right because the others can't talk about it, we probably do very little progress and, above all, we don't do any favors to the people we address and that we have to pay particular attention, which is the LGTBI collective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u263	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u264	Thank you. Well, we're glad you're talking about this. In fact, they could talk more than they're talking about. Because you say we register this initiative with the observatory. If you want, you can make an inspection and evaluate how many initiatives there are of our parliamentary group and how many of them there are of the People's Party, how many times our parliamentary group has brought this issue to the full and to the committees and how many times the People's Party. I wish they'd talked more about it, but I wish they'd talked about it, too, from respect. Because yes, I repeat that they have often made many retrograde comments. And the hemerotheque is very good, you can take a look at it and see all the comments of people directly linked to the People's Party that offended this collective directly. That's right, obviously. We abstained when it was the law of 2014. And I'm telling you again that this legislation has brought about progress, but it has been totally insufficient. And we would do absolutely the same thing again, because it was totally insufficient. It's more, five years later we can check in an obvious way how this law has served nothing but propaganda, so they advertise every time they come up to this forum talking about the law of 2014. Because today, most of the articles you've signed are systematically not done. Let's talk about the issues. In health, the theme of unity. It's just that we don't criticize unity, it's that people who attend it directly to the unit. It's just that the families are doing it. You should listen to people who know what the deficiencies in that unit are. And it's absolutely nothing against the professionals of unity. It would also be good for them to clarify clearly — because there were a lot of changes — who directed that unity. This unit is conceived uniquely and exclusively from the scope of mental health, as an obligatory framework for people who already know what they are, who don't need a psychiatrist to tell them: Yes, I give you permission to be a woman. People know that. All they want is freedom. And obviously, if you want access to a certain type of treatment, to a certain type of operation, you have to have a unit, but conceived from that perspective, and not pathologize and force all people to feel they're sick. Because they're not sick, they don't have a disorder. And that unit is what it does. Besides, he does exactly as he did in the rest of primary care, but now in Compostela. They didn't create a unit that serves to form professionals, they didn't create a unit that serves to access the treatments that people freely decide, absolutely for nothing of it. It's just for someone, a psychiatrist, to tell you whether or not you can tell me you're what you are. The theme of the CIS is amazing. You're going to ask the CIM workers to see what they think of their decree, to see what they think. Do they have resources and they have the CIM professionals to meet, in addition, LGTBI people? No, and we don't. All the people who work at the CIM, who aren't even conceived for it. There must be specific resources. The Kerote+ centers have been dismantled, that's evidence. We can also compare the number of people who worked at the Kerote+ centers when they started, the number of people who are today and those who have closed. It's a very simple matter. And so you're the only one who's done with the CIM decree was to add a collection, but they've given absolutely no more one euro for people to do the job they have to do — if they want to, Mrs Prado could come to answer this initiative too, because she should be clear how women's information centres work. On the subject of employment they should know they're breaking the law. Nor did he tell me whether they're going to study, whether they've already done it, or whether they're going to do absolutely nothing to comply with this article of legislation. They've been using the law of 2014 for a long time as the argument that applies to everything, as the law that has already come to change everything at all. I say it's a breakthrough, but it's totally insufficient. The gender identity law was indispensable, it was an urgent necessity, and the whole of society supported that claim. Because it was the LGTBI collectives who did a huge job of getting support, socializing the law so that it would not just remain on the walls of this Parliament. And they refused it without giving any argument, there was no reason for it to be rejected. The only argument was that there was already the 2014 Law when you know that in the 2014 Law only the subject of transsexuality is collected as a minor article.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u265	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u266	It's not going to develop as planned by this specific law. Then I hope you can talk about this, and I hope you spoke a lot more. But they speak with respect, with knowledge of the realities and of what people and families live, that we don't talk about them, don't forget that either.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u267	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quinteiro. Mr. Rueda Valenzuela has the floor of the Vice-President and Counsellor, Public Administration and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u268	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Quinteiro, you say we can talk about everything we want. Yes, yes, of course, like everyone else; and speak with respect, in addition. You talk about that for a long time we haven't had any insults or homophobic comments. I didn't listen to you or anyone in your group criticize that of "the whipping until it bleeds." What's the matter, that's not a homophobic comment? How does it come from your... I don't know if it's your game, because I've lost myself. I don't know if it's your party or not, I don't know exactly. But well, at some point it would be and, therefore, I suppose at that time he could make some comment. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And I'm saying this because this comes to the conclusion that, when you talk about these issues, you can even say these things and nothing happens. But when we say something, everything is interpreted in the sense that we didn't do anything, nor are we willing to do anything, nor do we speak to those affected and affected, nor do we know anything. You know everything, you have the ability to discuss medical procedures, you say you don't criticize Sergas professionals, but then you criticize what Sergas professionals do. So I guess I don't know what's worse at all. He says they're very good but they don't know what they're doing, they have no idea and they're doing things they shouldn't have to do, and so they're contributing to increasing the problem instead of solving it. I come here again to insist on the need to respect what professionals do, and to think that what they're doing is doing because they think it's the best. And surely it is — really, no, sure —. So it seems to me a little bold, frankly, to come to say that what you're doing is all the opposite of what you're going to do; that it's, at least, wasting your time, when it's not directly damaging the affected. I think not, I think not, and therefore come here to say it again. Because again you question it again. He says we don't listen to the collectives. No, no, we listen to them so much that we even try — and besides, they deserve and need — to support them economically. It's already the third year that an economic allocation is put in budgets so that all those collectives who defend interests and represent the LGTBI collective have a help in further developing their role. And I know it's not enough, I know that it's not enough for them to perform all their functions, nor is it the solution to everything they propose. But I think it's an important approach, it's not done in almost any autonomous community. I say it again because of this legitimacy that you deny this party and this government to talk about everything that has to do with matters related to the LGTBI collective. He says he's very happy that we're talking about this, and that you're talking about more than the People's Party's Parliamentary Group. Probably because, as the Government supports, it realizes that the Government is doing a lot of things and is running the law. And we're gonna keep running it. And I insist, Mrs. Quinteiro, that we think that some people already know everything and have the right to move in this aspect in all directions and that everything is all right, and that others know nothing and therefore everything we do is wrong and the instructions we give are wrong given and will not serve to solve any problems, or to make any progress, I think it's a wrong posture. We have just set up the observatory, we have just collected a lot of the allegations made by the LGTBI groups, among other groups that are going to be in this observatory, and we're going to see if we can develop them all. It would be a great advance, we would set a wonderful example. And of course we'll listen to everyone, of course we'll think we don't have absolute truth on this subject. But you, of course, aren't either; probably less than us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u269	Thank you very much, Counselor. We move on to the next point, the question to the Government. Question by D. Luis Villares Naveira, Da Carmen Santos Queiruga and three other Members of the G.P. of In Marea, on the forecasts of the Galician Union for the rescue of the public nature of the emergency media
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u270	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Santos Queiruga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u271	Good morning, Vice President. Mr. Rueda, I am glad that you are here with us today, because in the previous plenary we asked a question — which we would like you to answer — about the strikes of 112, 061 and the helicopters — that is, the emergency services package — and that Mr. Almuínña answered. But we prefer to address these issues with you. Because, as you know, the action of public authorities in matters of emergency, civil protection, with guidance and study in the prevention of serious risk situations, disasters, public disasters, and the protection of both goods and people in crisis situations, because it is one of the fundamental functions of the Government of Greece and, in this case, of the Vice-Presidentship of the Union. It is also a fundamental public service that guarantees the safety and tranquility of citizens and citizens. It's a service in whose organization because they participate both the different public administrations and citizenship, even though the hierarchical superior in their coordination, as you well know, is you. It's true that since 2007 we've had an emergency law for Galicia. But, however, we consider, apart from emergency services, that we continue without an operational emergency map. We have seen successive disappointments in situations of emergency, crisis, floods, the Marisquino accident crisis, the wave of fires, a situation that shows — by complaints and by the very perception of emergency services and their workers, coupled with their workload, and from there strikes, and also the disappointments with equipment like those of the GES, who have also come claiming different situations all year round — is that we have a map of emergencies that is characterized by ineffectiveness, discoordination and a territorial malfunction. The emergency map of Galicia would be integrated, as you know, by the local fire parks of the big cities, the parks of district firefighters and municipal firefighter services, the supra-municipal emergency groups (GES), the forest fire prevention and defence service, which complement the civil protection map, Civil Guard, National Police, National Autonomic Police, Health Services and 112. I mean, it's not a minor matter. And right now, right now, we see that this emergency map is a poor ability to manage both the resources they have and all this territorial and functional coordination. And emergency services, because they report all the problems that day-to-day management has and how, when there's a crisis, their management is usually hampered by wrong decisions of the Board. Although we also believe that it is not only your fault, because there are cases in which the deficiencies existed, as in the case of Marisquiño, in Vigo. The fear of the Union is also increased by the economic interests that exist and the privatization of services, such as helicopters in the case of emergencies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u272	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u273	That's why we asked him -- and he's finished -- if he's going to rescue the public character of the emergency service, as we propose from our group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u274	Thank you very much. Mr. Rueda Valenzuela has the floor of the Vice-President and Counsellor, Public Administration and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u275	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Santos, I always say on this very thing: the Government answers collectively. That's what has to be a coordinated and informed government, and so ultimately whoever answers it is who has the best information to be able to give it to you, regardless of whether you prefer each other. I insist, because here you see, contrary to what happened ten years ago, a coordinated government, which can respond to other areas when they are the main ones affected. Having said this, I insist on one thing: emergencies in Galicia are always public, regardless of how to manage them. They're always public; otherwise, I wouldn't be here answering and I wouldn't tell you that I'm responsible for coordination and responsible when something goes wrong. If they were private, we probably wouldn't be talking about it. Therefore, they are public, title is public, and the control that is made — very strict in all cases — is always a public control. Another thing is responsible administration. You were talking about the 2007 Emergency Act, which I'm sure you know. And, as you know, he knows that the Galician Union has higher coordination functions, it's true. And for that, there's General Emergency Directorate, and that's 112. But the media leaders, in all cases, are the municipalities of more than 20,000 inhabitants directly. And those under 20,000, too. And if they were not able — which often they are not — because they do not have enough resources, especially in large emergencies — the provincial deputies. Another thing is that the Galician Union is aware that this model, which is very well about the role — the Bipartite Law of the Year 2007 — then in practice, does not happen if the Galician Union does not also put its resources and effort into it. That's why we're also in direct interventions. That's why, in general, I have to say that Galicia is safe, that we have magnificent professionals and many means, many more than elsewhere! You don't have to go to other autonomous communities and see the media they have, and see that administrations of different political colors are working together. By the way, I think this is an example of this being so. You set me as an example of bad behavior in the Marisquiño emergency. I think it's been looking for... another thing that would have had to be done to prevent all that from happening. But emergency intervention was impeccable. I thought we were all in agreement here, we spoke in the investigation committee, in all the interventions. Now you come to say no, that emergency intervention was a disaster. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, that's how we're never going to agree. It was exemplary, and I claim again what the professionals did in the Navy that day. [[Applause]] From there, there remains a second replica, and you had to see what the emergencies in Galicia were in the year 2000 and what they are nineteen years later — management of the included Bipartite. In this respect it continued to advance, not at the speed at which it had to be advanced, but also advanced. Right now, without going any further, if you see the emergency media in the year 2000 and the ones now, you'll realize that you've made tremendous progress. It's just that the emergency map gave an impressive qualitative leap. Is there anything left to do? Should we close it with the search for parks? Is there anything to reformulate about the GHGs — will I now speak in the second part —? Of course, but that's to say that emergency services don't work and that's therefore a disaster and that you've seen in cases like Marisquin is a great injustice that I can't admit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u276	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Santos Queiruga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u277	Mr. Rueda, the strikes that existed in emergency services I didn't make them up, you know they existed. And I didn't say it was a disaster or that I hadn't served the services the emergency personnel in the Navy. What I tell you is that there has been disunity -- said the manager of the Axega, Mr. Marcos Araújo, in that commission, in which he recognized the disunity--... yes, I was. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Maybe he was somewhere else and I didn't hear the same thing. [[Murmurs.]] And I don't mean that it's only Junta's responsibility, but there's been disappointment. It's the emergency services that denounce discoordination, disorganization. And to tell me that there is no privatization of emergency services... of course, the case of helicopters is that, really, it is the perfect example of bad practice in privatizing a service, privatizing resources that were public, in order to worsen the quality and cost of that service. So, then, we're going to talk loudly. I don't care what happened in the Bipartite, I'm in 2019 and I'm talking about the 2019 situation. And it is the staff of the emergency service who denounces, and they note that there is no updated map of intervention teams, that there is arbitraryness in geographic coverage, territorial imbalance in the protection of citizenship, the lack of technical criteria instead of purely partisans, which are the ones who only make worse the quality of emergency service, the fear of the Union in this area, where they themselves denounce that economic interests of friendly companies are dominated by the public interest and the safeguard of the population, and which translates into systemic privatizations of emergency media — I repeat, like the case of helicopters — and in precarious staff protesting — is the same as public employees who are subcontracted. So, Mr. Rueda, of course we have to ask you, even though the shortcomings of the system affect Mr. Almuña or Mrs. Quintana, because you are the head of emergency in Galicia at the political level.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u278	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u279	And that's the real coordination.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u280	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u281	I said it in a positive sense, because they keep insisting...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u282	Thank you very much, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u283	...in which a privatized system works better than a public and direct management...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u284	Thank you very much, Mrs. Santos. For the Government's reply, the Vice-President and President-in-Office, Public Administration and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u285	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Santos, if she speaks positively, then when she talks negatively about emergencies, she'll take them straight ahead. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] Look, by clarifying one thing again -- because you made a very direct allusion -- Mr. Araújo, the manager of the Axega, didn't say that there was disappointment. Not at all, he said everything else. The truth is that I have been in touch with him from the very first moment, and what he said — and it goes on, unfortunately — is that there are many problems — but generally, and not just in the Marishin — in order to be able to coordinate with a council, with a council! We still don't have the Vigo mayor's phone when an emergency occurs. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] This doesn't happen to us in the other 312 districts of Galicia, and this has to be said. So if you think that's disunity, think what you want. [[Applause]] Of course, discouragement comes on one side. [[Murmurs.]] The other mayors and mayors of all the political colors throughout Galicia think it's good that they can be located immediately and that you can start working from the first moment together, probably because that's what interests the people who are in the emergency. Of course, when there are other interests, even above them, you have to ask why this is so the one that causes this situation. I want you to insist that we have high-quality public emergency services. And, look, they have to clear up. You told the Director General of Local Administration at a meeting, talking about the GHG — that I am an important part of the emergency map — that you see when I rescued them from the board because they couldn't be in the city halls because there were a lot of cacycist practices -- you said -- in the GHGs; and therefore they said that the Board had to recover them and manage them. And at the same time, they tell us that we're managing everything privately and that, therefore, Together does not manage emergency services well. Deal with it! If we take things, because we take them; if we don't take them, because we don't take them and because we're managing them wrong. In the end, I think we're doing our job -- I insist -- in a coordinated manner with the other administrations. And we've moved on a lot. There are so many more fire parks and much more security than there were 19 years ago and of course there were twenty-five — that there is not so much — of them. And of course, here we are finding a lot of responsibility in general — with all the exceptions I have told you — with all the political leaders, who see that it is necessary to invest in emergencies, who see that, even if it is something that we don't see so much — and I hope you never saw yourself, when it is necessary there they are; and therefore it is worth putting yourself in coordination, and that's what you're doing. You tell me about strikes. Listen, the 061 and 112 strike occurred when transfers to other places occurred. They had more to do with the relocation of the workers than with the quality service they were lending, which, of course, grew. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And time has shown -- it's been working for a while -- that it's been like this, and that the service you provide now is better. So I understand those tensions of the workers, I understand their legitimate demands, but I think it's getting a lot better in emergencies and investing a lot. So, look, Mrs. Santos! From my responsibility — you say that I am responsible for emergencies — as an emergency officer, I tell you to look at these catastrophic messages, look at those unfair messages. Because when a disaster really occurs, emergency services are professional, they depend on the administration...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u286	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u287	...and they respond properly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u288	Thank you very much, Vice President. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Maria Ángeles García Míguez and seven other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on the balance sheet by the Government of Greece for the actions carried out by the Police Unit on the protection of victims of gender-based violence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u289	To put the question, Mrs. García Míguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u290	Good afternoon. A few days ago we exceeded the chilling data of a thousand women killed by their couples, according to the data collected since 2003. But we know it's a lot more if we consider the dates before this year. And even more, since the 2004 Act of comprehensive protection against gender-based violence only accounts for women who had an affectivity relationship with their killer. This is not the case in Galicia in 2007 of prevention and comprehensive treatment against gender-based violence, including all murdered women without having an emotional connection with their batterer. As an example, we would have the case of Diana Quer. In Galicia it would be part of this dramatic statistics. So we have a more legislation in line with the Istanbul Convention, one of the most advanced in Europe. These figures say that society must show zero tolerance against abuse. It was a lot of work done. It has been achieved that this serious situation has left itself in the private sphere and is passed on to the public, that it is considered a problem of doors within being a responsibility for all, thanks to a great deal of awareness and prevention campaigns. And, in this sense, all of us must assume our obligation; above all, those who have political responsibility. Mr. Vice-President, I want to thank you publicly on behalf of all the Greeks for the work you are doing. And in this sense, I don't want to forget that just a few months ago, you had a conference in Vigo city, in an economic-business forum, and you were talking about improving competitiveness, entrepreneurship, and you were betting on the creation of quality employment. In his last few minutes he remembered in his intervention that macho violence can occur in any space, that can happen to any person, and that sometimes occurs beside us in silence. You urged all the people there to be informed about the protocol of labour and sexual harassment directed at professional schools, employers and workers, to come near to advise on the aid available for recruiting victims of violence, to report, that they do not look elsewhere and that they do not need to. That's our responsibility. [[Murmurs.]] It seems that the opposition is not interested but we continue with this question, because we believe that awareness, prevention and, of course, protection to victims is very important. Give a voice where we meet. So we want to ask the next question...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u291	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u292	...with regard to protection measures: what balance does the Government of Greece have with regard to the actions carried out by the Police Unit in the field of protection against violence against men? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u293	Thank you. The vice president and councillor, the public administrations and the judiciary have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u294	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Garcia, in fact, I agree — I believe we agree with this whole House — that everything you do is little, and that everything you do to prevent before you have to protect because it is much better for many reasons that are perfectly understandable. Now, it's true that sometimes we have to protect the victims, because there are, and many, many more victims than there should be. And what the Adscribed Police Unit has done since 2016 is to dedicate itself — specifically with 12 personnel, always, at all times, and when more force is needed, of course — to protect the victims. We signed three years ago — I say, in 2016 — an agreement with the Ministry of the Interior. And right now, in the Vioxen units, in the Vioxen programme, in collaboration with the National Police Corps — of course, the first responsible ones — we attend women in coordination with the police stations of Santiago, La Coruña, Lugo, Ourense, Pontevedra and Vigo — therefore, we cover all Galicia. When does the work of these groups begin? Well, at the moment of a complaint about gender-based violence or an order of protection, that is, when there is a victim or the possibility that there is at least one victim. What are the agents doing — who, of course, receive very specialized and very comprehensive training —? They interview the victim to get to know his personal circumstances and identify the risk situations he might have, and they plan a protective strategy to suit him. We don't forget they're protection units; therefore, there's a custom action plan. And I insist on this, in that the circumstances surrounding each victim — the social, territorial and family circumstances — vary greatly; therefore, these different circumstances need to be adapted. The level of risk is used, and you can do it from sporadic phone calls, contact calls, supervision, periodic personal interviews, until you make a much more thorough watch, at least in specific periods of time. And there's also a collaboration with the different social services, with different courts and prosecutors, so that this action -- they're also professionals who care for the victims -- is as integrated and as coordinated as possible. And I give some quantitative data. Since the beginning of the provision of this service — I have told you that it is three years since 2016 — it has protected 1,617 victims. It was 110 in 2016 — the agreement was signed and it began its vigil with the advanced year — 511 in 2017, 558 in 2018, and 438 — a very high and very worrying number — as it goes on in 2019. It's worrying or not, because this also means that more women are encouraged to report, because they know they're going to have that protection from the State's forces and security forces; in this case, the Assistant Police Unit. We're currently responding and protecting from the Police Unit assigned to 264 women. In the second round I can give you more data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u295	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mrs. García Míguez has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u296	Yes, after listening to certain political groups to talk about the cuts that kill or there are orders in politics, we've already advanced that we're not going to use masculine violence or as a continuing confrontation — that we're used to listening to it — or as an electoral tool. In the People's Party we want to show responsibility, so the data that the Counsellor brings to us today demonstrates. We congratulate the entire Government of Galicia, specifically the Vice-Presidentship and the Secretary-General for Equality, on the economic bet of more than five million euros for direct aid to victims of violence, and with a budget of own funds. Never before in history has there been support such as now against gender-based violence, with attention to the most vulnerable sectors, immigrant women, victims of trafficking and sexual exploitation, women with disabilities, waiting for psychological attention, with training at universities, prevention at festivals, in the cultural industry, with the use of new technologies, adaptation of judges and the victim care office, telephone assistance, free literacy, regulation of advertising in the media and betting on coordinated work from the local level, and, of course, training, prevention and awareness-raising in the field of public administration, health, education, rural, urban, business and our neighbourhood. Finally, while the German Government is part of the solutions, others, if not added, are part of the problem. We call for responsibility to be part of a dialogue that unites us and not a monologue that separates us. And so - to finish with - I give you my congratulations, since it was a popular government that in 2015 made it possible for the Ministry and the Council of Galicia to have this Assistant Police Unit, with attention to 365 days of the year and 24 hours of the day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u297	Thank you very much. The Vice-President and President-in-Office, Public Administrations and Justice have the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u298	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Garcia, indeed, as I said in the first part of her speech, there are many measures. This is a reactive measure, when there is a victim, and it must be protected. I hope it wasn't necessary, I hope we could devote all our efforts to prevention. And it is true that the state pact against gender violence — I say it whenever I have occasion — adopted by a Government of the People's Party and executed by a Government of the Socialist Party — shows that in some important things we must always agree, it gives many opportunities. In the matter of the protection of victims, which is the object of their question, it is true that we would like in some actions that we propose and that we believe are effective — as for example, to be able to do works in the courts for separation between victims and aggressors when there are declarations and all that — the axes of the state pact do not allow it. There's more in the victim care offices, which I think should be improved, and allow these performances. But in general, I think it's very positive, and we have a huge opportunity to act in prevention, education and then in the protection, when necessary, of victims of male violence. I told him I was going to give him more data in the second part of the intervention. I just want to say that since 2016, 86 people have been arrested — I say by the Police Unit – for crimes related to gender violence, which have been dealt with nearly 5,000 calls related to the violence of the armed police unit, that these police have maintained more than 13,000 direct contacts with the victims and that more than 82,000 controls have been carried out around the victims and more than 4,000 in the vicinity of the attackers. Almost 5,000 risk assessment reports were made, nearly 5,000 notifications were sent to the judges or the prosecutor's office related to the performance of these Vioxen units and nearly 3,000 identifications were made. We must continue to do this, without any doubt, and unfortunately. I'm here once again — and when I have a chance to do it — to say that I'm sweet to the police officers of the Adscript Police Unit who are specifically dedicated and exclusively to the Vioxen units of the UPA, but many more would be needed. In the communications that we are continuously doing to the Ministry of the Interior we called for what we have already achieved in 2012-2013, which is to reach the 500 troops of the Adscribed Police Unit — we are back under the 400 — and a very important part would be to increase these units Vioxen. So, I think it's more necessary than ever, and now urgent. In the first part of my speech, the data that are the most protected victims — therefore, there are more complaints — were given. And if the victims of macho violence knew that they could have even more cops to protect them and that they would therefore be safer, that would probably encourage even more, along with other measures, more complaints. It is therefore essential to continue to demand that the Assistant Police Unit be completed. They perform fundamental functions, not just these. But these, in particular, simply these, would serve to complement and complement this appropriation as soon as possible. I hope that once the government is formed they can be sensitive and this is one of the first demands...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u299	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u300	...that they are cared for, because Galicia has been doing it for some time, and I think it's of justice and necessity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u301	Thank you very much, Vice President. Da Maria de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda, from G.P. of In Marea, on the view of the Government of Greece regarding the consideration, in the information issued by CRTVG on 12 June, of the test of Greek as a discriminatory element for the student presented to the tests of selectivity in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u302	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Cuña Bóveda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u303	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. Counsellor, the 12th of June opened ABAU -- we talked a lot about this yesterday. He received 11,400 students who were enrolled. These students go to these tests with a lot of pressure. But the Inter-university Commission of Galicia, the Ciug, did indeed seem to guarantee security. The students and the students carried their ears discovered, their nerves rattled, their devices at home -- mobile phones -- well, they wanted to avoid fraud. This seems very right to us, very good. But what didn't prevent CiUG was chaos in the philosophy test. Also, the biology and biology exam was only in Spanish. When some students and students asked for the English version, it took an hour to give it to them, and after that they were left just ten minutes, after the exam began. They also had to replace the Language II exam by opening the package before time. I mean, there's been a lot of lack of rigour from the administration to ensure the student's language rights. This is the data, this is the fact, but it's very important to know how the topic has been focused on since CRTVG. Since CRTVG, something intolerable has been done, it has been said that students and students in Greece had to examine one more subject, that evidence was more difficult, that correction criteria were more demanding... this contradicts the fact that 91.46% of the student in Greece has passed the test. This is a target data. The coverage of ABAUs' initiation by CRTVG has aroused many criticisms, because the public entity has alluded to inequalities between communities. Of course, the tests are marked by security and inequality, which is curious and what a coincidence! In this way, the public television corporation breaks its own deontological principles that force it to promote, disseminate and defend the language, culture and our identity. It is a lack of intolerable respect to consider that examination is a difficulty instead of an academic opportunity, to consider our language as one more matter, knowing that it is a unique heritage, a wealth, such as water and air to live and breathe. We need it like this. The published information then disappeared, but coincides with Feijóo's statements, which bet on a unique selectivity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u304	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u305	This is contradictory...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u306	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u307	...to the principals, from the CRUE, who group them throughout the state.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u308	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u309	They defend selectivity as we have in the current system.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u310	Thank you very much. The Councillor for Culture and Tourism, Mr. Rodríguez González, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u311	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, the truth is, in your explanatory statement, and also in your oral exposition, you put, above people, above youth equality, their ideology. And I think you're wrong, and I'll tell you why. First of all, it gives me the feeling that you are absolutely overacting in this question, because you want to use the language as a daring weapon. You see that you have no intention of having effective control — in this case of the organ you accuse of not defending the Greek language and culture, which is CRTVG — because you know this is an independent body that has its own control commission in the Galician Parliament. If you really had any interest in clarifying the meaning of the news, you would raise this question in that forum and not in this forum, which is absolutely different. And I also tell you, without going into any way to value the news, that I think there's an over-acting here again. Because, look, to doubt the commitment of an entity such as Galician Television, Welsh public television, in the defense of language or culture for information that is absolutely true, and without any kind of valuation and that one cannot question — the students of Greece have a further subject in selectivity, in ABAU, that is something indisputable—it is something that I think is going too far, is trying to build an attack, in this case a public body, on the basis of an absolutely objective fact that you cannot discuss me — as it happens in all autonomous communities with their own language, with co-official languages. There's one more test, actually. And it's also true that the person responsible for this information somehow made a clarification, made a clarification. But the truth is, you don't care about all this. Of course, you say it's not good for the selectivity exams, for the current ABAU, to be different in the autonomous communities. I think it's important that there are equal opportunities for all young people. And you don't say that to this political party, you don't say that to this government, you don't say that to the former education advisor, neither to the current advisor nor to the president of the Galician Union. It's a lot of experts, it's a lot of universities, it's a lot of autonomous communities. In fact, in university access there is a unique district, but there are seventeen different districts of access and it is statistically demonstrated, in this case by the University of Valladolid, that there is a differential in what is the intensity of measuring the notes of the old ABAU. And that's a lot of travel for students and has a lot of consequences in their lives. And I think it's very important that there's equal opportunities and proof that somehow calibrates all students regardless of the autonomous community.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u312	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u313	That's to ensure equality beyond the particular ideologies of each one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u314	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Cuña Bóveda has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u315	Well, it's a shame, Counselor. We're talking about not a pergrullate -- a word you like a lot about language -- not an ideology. We're talking about a right. It's collected in the Autonomy Statute, it's collected in our laws. CRTVG has this obligation. Of course we belong to that commission, and there we get the subject out too. But the government has the responsibility to enforce the laws, and they're breaking the laws. Buy the laws. It's a matter of quiet background. That study of what you're talking about isn't contrasting, I just said. What happens is I didn't expect another answer, because you have that good habit of not listening at all, of making fallacies and fallacies. Your answer is certainly hersyline. We're not at times of argument, it's true. The argument avoids the abyss, it has no abismal quality. You are reproducing the recentralizing discourse of the state's ultra-right, assuming your own arguments. These arguments that I tell you and that you ignore, of course, will sink into any election night by catching the lost balloons in the fifth hell. On the contrary, we'll be tired of being triumphant, ruling or not, the abysmal neofascism you're committed to. You already have a secure heritage, you don't attend here when we call you to talk about heritage. Today he comes, and he's no longer a teacher's advisor, nor is he responsible for CRTVG. All right, welcome. At last it comes, not to the area that corresponds to it. But they already have a secure heritage: the theme park of the abyss. They don't even have to answer with arguments anymore, they just disqualify. Tell me I'm overacting is a fallacy. And the fallacy makes a bad thing when they break down on the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u316	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u317	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u318	The Minister of Culture and Tourism, Mr. Rodríguez González, has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u319	I say that his political vision of the world leads her to dominate her ideology and her empty speech in front of people's rights and the equality of young people. And I'll explain. Look, autonomous communities, all of them, make different systems of access to university; however, there is a unique district. And the University of Valladolid and other institutions have done statistical studies that show that there is a difference in the difficulty between the different autonomous communities, which calibrate the note of access, cutting, which makes it difficult or prioritizes students about others, and that there is no direct correlation between the academic level of the different autonomous communities and the ABAU notes. Because autonomous communities that have a higher academic level throughout Spain—Galicia is among them, is in third or fourth, according to the variable, in the PISA reports, just like Castela-León— always appear in the last positions at ABAU. And other autonomous communities that have levels of knowledge and skills under the middle of Spain, and well under the middle of Galicia or Castile-Leon, for example, have much better grades in selectivity. Something's missing. And I think rights are very important, it's important to guarantee students' rights, to guarantee young people's rights, to equal opportunities for young people. And this system detected and detected that there are errors. We have to perfect it and we have to guarantee equal opportunities for a young man regardless of Lugo, Soria, Valladolid, Albacete or Seville. That is equality, and we fully believe in people's rights. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, you're the one who prefers to talk about the re-centralization of the state's ultra-right, you'd rather talk about that than talk about our boys' equality to an important test that's going to mark your life... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u320	Quiet, Mrs. Prado! I'm asking for silence everywhere. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please, shut up! Silence of all, Mr. Sánchez, of all. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] And there I just called the order, too. I didn't call in order, I'm sorry, I said shut up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u321	Well, I said people's rights must be given precedence over the sobs and political slogans. And I think it was very clear here today. In any case, look, you're questioning a public entity's commitment, such as CRTVG, to promoting language and culture. And look, an institution like FORTA gives us a tremendously important data on a question that I think is very significant about the contribution of autonomous televisions to the promotion of the cultural features of each autonomous community. Do you know what is the most powerful autonomous television, which promotes and enhances its own language and culture? It's about 90%. 90% against others: Basque Country, 81%; or Catalan, 82%. But as it seems something strange to say a statistical reality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u322	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u323	...the existence of one more subject in a selectivity exam, and from there you create a myth, a story, and you just talk about neo-fascism, of decentralization, really, from there, Your Honor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u324	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u325	What do you want me to say? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u326	Thank you very much, Counselor. Change in agenda development
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u327	There's a change in the agenda. We are now debating Question 7.10. Question of Da María Incarnation Amigo Díaz and eight other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the conservation works carried out in the last two years on the Roman wall of Lugo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u328	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Amigo Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u329	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. Counsellor, the Roman wall surrounding the historic town of Lugo is the only one in the world that keeps itself whole. It was founded in the year 13 before Christ by Roman magistrate Paul Fabio Maximus in the name of Emperor Caesar Augustus. Since the 6th fall of 2007 it's bordered with the great Chinese wall of Qinhuangdao. Lugo's wall is totally transitible. Built mainly in slate and, to a lesser extent, in granite, it measures something more than two kilometers in diameter, with a height ranging between 10 and 15 meters. In some of its sections the thickness of its walls reaches 7 meters wide. They preserve most of their cubes. It has ten doors — five old and five more recent openings, between 1853 and 1921. The changes that over the more than 17 centuries of history have not substantially altered its appearance and its original layout, which follows the guidelines of the Roman engineer Vitrubius. It should be noted that the Roman wall of Lugo is the only one in all the territory that was part of the Roman Empire that is preserved entirely in its perimeter. This same year, 2019, we celebrate the tenth anniversary of UNESCO's declaration of the Roman wall as the heritage of humanity, a recognition that contributes to the value of this Roman monument that identifies the city of Lugo and, by extension, the whole of our community. The Galician Union, as the owner of the wall, has been moving several initiatives that contribute to the rehabilitation of this monument and to the preservation of its structures — among the latest, the works carried out in cubes 80, 70, 71 and 19—. Year after year, since 2009, the Galician Union has been investing in the conservation of the wall, investments that have, as I said, increased by more than four million euros since 2009. For all this, and being aware of the great importance it has for all the lumens and for all the people of Greece the preservation of this emblematic monument for the city, and also of the great effort that the Council of Galicia is making in its conservation, today, Counsellor, we are interested in explaining to us here, in parliamentary headquarters, that consisted of the conservation works carried out in the last two years on the Roman wall. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u330	Thank you very much, Mrs. Friend. The Councillor for Culture and Tourism, Mr. Rodríguez González, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u331	Thank you very much, President. Madam, the truth is that the neighbors of Lugo and the Greeks, who love Lugo and its wall, see the wall as something tremendously natural and as something almost ordinary and almost normal. And we're terribly wrong. You have just described very well the historical and cultural importance, and also in the everyday life of Lugo's neighbours. And the urban importance in the design of the city that has the wall because it is something really extraordinary and worthy of all mention. In fact, thanks to this extraordinary fact, a Roman wall practically intact in the last two thousand years, for it was 19 years ago declared the cultural heritage of humanity. We all know that this statement places the wall of Lugo at the height of the great cultural goods of Galicia, such as the paths of Santiago — which, by the way, also pass through Lugo, in this case the primitive Way—, the old city, the historical town, the city of Santiago or the tower of Hercules. And we think, and we hope, that in a short time we can add new declarations of humanity's heritage to other spaces, to other territories, such as the Sacred Ribeira, as can be the National Park of the Cyes, the Atlantic Islands, or as can be the Ferrol of Illustration. But the truth is, a statement of this importance also has a responsibility. Of course, the Greeks have the responsibility to maintain, preserve and value this resource so simple and so overbearing. And in this case the administration responsible for the care, promotion and conservation of the wall of Lugo because it is the Junta of Galicia. This was assumed with a worthy responsibility from the very first moment. And over the last two years action has been carried out by 1.5 million, interventions which are currently continuing, well at the stage of execution, well at the tendering stage — in this case by 800,000 euros. We have also just finished a wall maintenance plan, which basically made it an integral cleanup, an integral treatment from the biological point of view, of the fauna, and some physical works that placed this budget in 750,000 euros, since it was obvious that the wall had to be protected as an absolutely living monument and that is part of the city's life. We have also made important conservation and maintenance actions in cubes 19 and 80 — for an budget in this case of EUR 400,000 — and we are also fully restoring 70 and 71 — we are talking about investments of EUR 250,000. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we have an investment of EUR 1.5 million over the past two years, which is obviously a good amount of public resources aimed at improving the prevailing and important needs of Lugo's wall. Obviously they're never enough and we have to keep working, we have to keep improving...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u332	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u333	...because in the end we are faced with one of the most comprehensive assets of Galician heritage, of the universal heritage, which, as I said at first, seems to us that it is normal because we live with it, but it is absolutely extraordinary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u334	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the replica shift you have the word to Mrs. Amigo Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u335	Thank you very much, Counselor, for your answer. We know of the commitment of the Union to the city of Lugo, and we welcome the response given here today, in which this commitment is reaffirmed, that responsibility which, year after year, has been shown since the Union with its cultural assets, and in particular in this case, as we said, with the wall of Lugo, declared by UNESCO, as previously noted, the heritage of humanity. It's a statement that, together with the other two heritages of humanity that we count on in Lugo, the cathedral and the primitive Way, have encouraged that in recent years we have been able to attract many more tourists to our city in moments, in addition, where cultural tourism is on the rise. And that, of course, results in the economy of our city. Counsellor, we would like to see in your second turn what works are being carried out at this time and what are those works that have been planned for the near future.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u336	Thank you very much, Mrs. Friend. For the Government's reply, the Councillor for Culture and Tourism has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u337	Madam, as I said in the previous speech, we are faced with a living monument that needs constant care, a monument that is widely used by citizenship and which is part of the daily life of the neighbors of Lugo. We are constantly doing works, doing interventions. The structural consolidation of cube 7 and its inner contour is currently being carried out. It's a work of 300,000 euros. They're also about to start the performances of the new wall conservation and maintenance plan, a plan that we estimate from around 250,000 euros and that's done for a year. The previous one was for two, and it was 750,000. This year we're talking about 250,000 to do, as we have already said, health, environmental, physical, spare parts, etc. interventions. And in addition to these works that are already being carried out, we have projected various actions for the future. We highlight again the 31st cube of the wall, in which we calculated about 150,000 euros of auction cost, and we are also, in the 6th cube, launching a gallery found, a gallery that, as you know, appeared in recent archaeological excavations and which may be part of an ancient Roman cloca and which is part of an ancient curtidoria. In any case, this will allow them to continue to know the global context of the wall, its historical context and, above all, its general dissemination. Finally, we are facing a set of actions, which are being implemented or planned for the future, in which EUR 800,000 will be invested. As I've said, we're preserving, we're protecting, we're putting on a living element of many, many people who live in constant contact with the wall, who interact with the wall. To some extent, the wall is part of their lives. So to make an already definitive balance, and a little cold — from the point of view that I am simply going to talk about statistical data — I mean that since 2009 they have invested in the Lugo wall more than four million euros, four million euros that in recent years we could divide in the following way: 1.5 invested in works already finished — works of maintenance of the wall, 750,000; cubes conservation works 19 and 80,400,000; integral restoration of cubes 70 and 71,250,000; and the future forces us to continue working on this line, because we have EUR 800,000 works running or forecasting. In execution, two: what is the structural consolidation of the cube 7 — 300,000 euros — and new wall-maintaining works, as I said earlier — 250,000 euros. We have in anticipation of two new projects that will be put in place immediately, which are, on the one hand, the restoration of cube 31 of the wall, with an amount of about 150,000. And finally, the position in value of a gallery found in cube 6 -- which, as I said before, could be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u338	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u339	...an old Roman bell—for 60,000 euros. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u340	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question from Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and three other Members from the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the existence of some risk of loss of the Feder funds allocated to the project of sanitation of the river of Viveiro
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u341	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Otero Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u342	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Welcome, Counselor. The question we are bringing today shows a clear example of the passiveness of the German Government and can bear the loss of EUR 2.4 million of European funds. There are funds, but they are not executed for the passivity of Galician waters. Let's put ourselves in a position. The sanitation project of the River of Viveiro has two parts, one related to EDAR, which involves a new raft, a new pretreatment and a new disinfection; and the second project involves the installation of a new emissary, the removal of the old one, a new pumping installation in Celero and a new deposit. Already in 2010 the European Union demanded the sanitation of the River of Livestock, so in 2011 the Government of Galicia announced its execution by 2015. It's June 26, 2019, and these works are not yet started. In 2016, a year after the first promised date, the board of Galicia indicated that this work would be completed in 2019, a new deadline that will not be met either, because, look, in October 2018, when the mayor of Viveiro, María Loureiro, met with the director of the Waters of Galicia, he again committed the start of the proceedings for the withdrawal of the current emissary. But again, in the months following this meeting, nothing else was known to the Living Town Hall. Nothing was known either of the request by that agency to process the construction permits of a new emissary to the State Coast Demarcation. And we arrived at the municipal campaign and there appeared in Viveiro a spokesperson from the Galician Union who turned out to be the PP's candidate for the mayor of Viveiro — who was not even the PP's municipal spokesperson in that council — and announced in the press that in the coming days the withdrawal of the buried part of the emissary that is currently in the creek, which means that the proceedings are about to be completed, and also that the Galician Union is going to present within that time frame — which we do not know what the deadline is — the technical project of enlargement of EDAR. But this information is not what the Living Town Hall has. The Spokesman's Spokesman at Viveiro made statements that do not match the information that the Viveiro Council itself has. But we must say that these actions will take place — well, we hope they will happen, because, seeing all the failures since 2011 on the part of the Galician Union... — partly with Feder funds 2014-2020, on the count of 2.4 million euros. And there's a risk of losing them because of the lack of Galician waters. Because we well know that these works have to be completed in December 2020. So our question goes as follows: Is there a risk that the 2.4 million euros of Feder funds will be lost to the project of sanitation of the River of Livestock? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u343	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u344	Thank you. Your Honor, the fact is that I recently appeared in the Galician Parliament to address the planning and work done, and the work to be done, for the integral management of water, of the entire water cycle — a clear bet of the Government of Galicia — by helping and supporting the municipalities in their exclusive competence in terms of sanitation and purification. The law is clear, and when a council assumes mayorship because it has direct powers in the management of water, supply and sanitation —Article 25(2)(c) of the Law of local regime—. So first you have to know the regulations as well. And passivity, none. And I'm going to tell you clearly why. These are therefore exclusive tasks of the municipalities in which we support and help. Therefore, I am telling you very loudly that the clear bet of the work that we have seen through comprehensive sanitation, and above all the rivers of Greece, is important, with continued collaboration, helping and helping — which I would also like the Members to do in the direct competences that they have in aid to the municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants mainly — in these powers of sanitation and purification. That's how we're doing it in Viveiro and, therefore, passivity of the Galician Union, none. Let's see the passivity of the Viveiro Town Hall, which I'm going to comment on. We're pushing two performances, which are now three because the Living Town Hall isn't able to do what it has to do. Because you also have to know that the title of the current debugger and the title of the current emissary is the Town Hall. Two actions, in particular, amounting to EUR 7 million — the new debugger and the new emissary. And we also have to act at the Galician Union to rescue the lack of activity, passivity, of the Viveiro Council because it is unable to do its work with the processing of the new emissary and also with the justification of the withdrawal of the current emissary. The new emissary began with the request submitted to the Council of Livestock, with the permission of the discharge and the occupation of the land that transferred to the Union of Galicia. The Galician Union moved it to Costas, submitted public information, because it's complex procedures, but that's what to do. Sectoral reports have been positive minus two. One is that of Ports. Why? Because he demands the Town Hall to regulate the occupation of the public domain of the sea-terrestrial, and therefore is awaiting the Town Hall of the Living. The Coastal report could not have been in favour of changing the location of the storm tank to be made by the Viveiro Town Hall and the withdrawal of the emissary. These are issues that have passed the Viveiro Town Hall, because they are its title, it has to do them the Viveiro Town Hall, and it's not capable of being overcome. It is unable to perform these types of management before Coast and Ports to make progress in administrative processing. And since he was unable to meet these requirements, we went from the Council of Galicia to rescue the Viveiro and do what he couldn't do to the Living Town Hall. We see that this lack of capacity of the Viveiro Council is what is delaying. But don't worry that at the Galician Council we'll bid immediately as soon as we have all the documentation from the Living Town Hall.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u345	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Otero Rodríguez has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u346	Thank you, President. Counsellor, in 2011 Junta de Galicia committed to carrying out these sanitation works, which were to be carried out in 2015. We are mid- 2019 and we know nothing about the beginning of these works. I wonder, Counselor: would we be talking about these dates, the non-fulfillment of these dates, if in Viveiro I was ruling a mayor or mayor of the People's Party? Because, look, now you come to tell us here that you were to rescue the Living Town Hall because these works and this request for documentation were great, that the Living Town Hall was over. [[Applause]] Look, the only one who got out of town and Viveiro was the People's Party in the last municipal elections. But, look, we know that you don't like that government Maria Loureiro, that governs the PSdeG, but this group isn't asking you to like who likes who governs or not in the Viveiro Town Hall, what we're asking the Galician Waters is that they do the works of improving the sanitation of the River of Viveiro. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] It is urgent to remove the emissary to solve these sanitation problems and not lose Feder funds. The situation already warned in 2010, as I said, for the European Union it was necessary to improve this sanitation. Please, agility by Galician Waters!, because the funds for improving the sanitation of the River of Livestock exist but are not executed — I repeat — by the passivity of the Greek Government. The truth is, unfortunately, the risk of losing these Feder funds for passivity of the Greek Government does not exist only in Viveiro. At least in the Navy there is also another risk of loss of the inoperation of Galician waters in relation to EDAR of Burela and Foz. They get to work, run these works and avoid the losses of European funds. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u347	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. Replica from the Government. Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u348	We don't do politics with water, no, no! [[Murmurs.]] Burgo's laugh? [[Laughter]] Who rules in Burgo's laugh? Culleredo, Cambre e Oleiros: 100 million euros waiting for the dredging of the Government of Spain. Ría de Vigo, debugger de Vigo, who rules in Vigo? More than 100 million euros of Galician self-funding. We don't do politics with water. Others, yes; others are political at the high speed of Galicia, which is a commitment to all the Greeks. [[Applause]] In any case, water is what brings us here today — especially all the waters in the municipality of Viveiro. It's a competition, I insist again, exclusive municipal, that we help and support. And I'd like them to include, too, memberships, provincial deputies. The first problem of sanitation in the river of Viveiro is the Town Hall of Viveiro, with its management and exploitation. And when they really convince me that there is a problem of maintenance and exploitation — like all things, that we have to keep them — because we would all end up with this pact that I propose. We're talking about insufficient debugging in Celeiro, breaking the emissary that doesn't fix, malfunctioning, trawling problems, infiltrated seawater. And, you see, the Viveiro Town Hall assumes the exploitation of debugging, the bad exploitation of debugging, and collects the neighbors a rate of debugging. How does that sound to you? There's bad exploitation, but the rate of clearance. So, I think we need to talk more seriously about the subject of the operation of the debuggers and sanitation facilities. He assumes responsibilities that do not touch him — and in processing, equally — and, in short, waiting for others to come to fix their problem. Of course, the others will fix their problem, as we also fix in the other rivers, as may also be the area of the river Pontevedra. Junta will assume the withdrawal of the emissary, municipal jurisdiction, which is of municipal ownership. And Junta's going to run that 3 million-euro submarine emissary, because the funds have to be. And to have them and get them, you also have to work first. We're trying to put forward deadlines for improving water quality. The Union has drafted this waste water treatment project, a very important project, with EUR 3.9 million that we have allocated — in total EUR 7 million — to cover. To order them, I don't know if you know, but you have to work. You have to order them and move forward in your projects. And for the project that's being drafted, there is a need for municipal documentation to deal with these issues. At the beginning of May — May 7, we asked the Council for municipal documentation — it would be necessary and essential — because it is its competence. You did not send some documentation. Well, I'm not going to enter the documentation you didn't send, but you didn't send it all. We're calling for it again on June 19th. We'll ask you again, and look at yesterday -- welcome to the question for the stacks to be put -- yesterday, you send the remaining documentation. But the truth — we are concerned — is that even today we also ask for what is missing, what is missing: public information and certificate of availability of land, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] So send her as soon as possible. Ask the Viveiro Council to send the documentation and we will bid; and the Costas, sensitivity to the documentation of the emissary. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u349	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Da María Monserrat Prado Cores and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the view of the Government of Greece regarding the existence of an uncontrolled waste deposit in the mouth of the Arousa River
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u350	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u351	Good afternoon, Mrs. Quintana. The announcement of his counsellor's intention to take about 221,000 cubic metres, two thirds of the 300,000 mud planned for the dredging of the Lérez area — the dredging that goes from the port of the boat club to the scapegoat of the Praceres — made the mouth of the Arousa stream jump all the alarms. And it has now brought the existence of a point of dumping at the entrance of the Arousa stream which must never have existed. At the end of the 1990s, the Spanish State set a place in front of the Grove, between the islands of Ons and Salvora, 2 miles from Ons and 3.5 miles from Salvora, so that there would be a deposit. The mud was deposited in it first, from the works of expansion of the port of Ferrazo in Vilagarcia, around 2 million cubic metres, and from that date there were tons of meters that were deposited there. It's estimated to be at least 3 million. Depots from the area of Marín, Vigo, Tragove, Rianxo and Meloxo. According to the information that has been provided to us, the place is a real mountain with an area similar to several football fields and meters high. This point of dumping is around the protected area of the National Park of the Atlantic Islands, in protected areas ZEPA and OSPAR, with the objective — I suppose you will know — of preserving marine ecosystems and preventing and eliminating pollution. It's on the inlet channel to the stream, so the oceanographic current that causes the blooming in the Arousa stream, and therefore what is deposited there leads the current to the sea inside. There is unanimity in the creek in the rejection of this dumping of contaminated mud. The confrereries, the platform in defense of the river, ecological collectives and citizenship have shown their opposition to this project, but they also don't want that point of dumping to be maintained. They don't want it in Pontevedra and they don't want it in the Arousa. They don't want a new risk, a sword from Damocles, threatening the river. They don't want to have to pay a new bill, in environmental damage and in production. The sea sector, Mrs. Quintana, has paid too many bills that it is not appropriate to pay to the sea sector, which are invoices for bad things and wastes from other administrations — to begin with. [[Applause]] So today, what we want to ask you is whether you think you can afford that at the entrance of Galicia's most productive stream, such as the Arousa River, of enormous productive and environmental wealth, there's a deposit with tons of waste that might be putting your ecosystem at risk, and if you've thought about continuing with that project to take the muds of the Lérez dredging there. Today morning we approved here an initiative to insist that it wasn't like this. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u352	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. The sea councillor, Mrs. Quintana Carballo, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u353	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Prado, going directly to answer your question, I would like to point out to you that this Government believes and believes that there should not exist and there is no uncontrollable waste disposal in the mouth of the Arousa River. We would never accept it. Now, if you with this question, that you pick up a statement as round as inaccurate, you refer to the point of deposits of dredging materials that exist out of the river, I would tell you that there is this place but that there is no such waste or lack of control. I say this because dredging materials are not considered waste, and because every repository of dredging materials has to have periodic monitoring and monitoring, as indicated by the current regulations on this matter. In this sense, I can say that Galicia is a pioneer in strict compliance with the guidelines for the characterization of dredged material, and its relocation in the public domain maritime-terrestrial, elaborated by Cedex, which were approved in 2014 and revised in the years 2015 and 2017. In any case, and seeing your doubt about a supposed failure of constancy in the follow-up to the consequences of the prior storage of materials, you can point out that this follow-up and its conditions are easily verifiable with a simple search on the Internet, referring to official and technically endorsed documents. So, and to avoid misinformation and alarms, I want to make a call to use, as a foundation, technically solvent information, and to documentally evaluate it, so that it does not get far from the truth in an important way. I say this because his statement contrasts with statements made recently in Galicia and in front of the European Commission by his party, and in which it was said that he was already pouring into Salvora material from Lérez, that this spill had been authorized by the ports of Galicia, that they were waste and that the water directive could be breached. Well, these statements are not without a technical basis, but they do not support a simple application of the common sense. If we also apply the regulations and the force of facts to them, we see that neither the project nor Ports has yet been approved can authorize nor is there any directive being breached, but they are all being complied with. That's why I just want to make a call to responsibility and to follow your turn to the truth by asking them to complete it with strict proposals, because, until now, it seems, they only want the ports of southern Galicia to be filled with sand and our fleet has nowhere to rob. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u354	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the replica turn, Mrs. Prado Cores has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u355	I don't know who you're answering, Mrs. Quintana; of course, not what I asked you. What happens is that you practice the worst of politics, that of escapism, that of not taking responsibility, that of inoperation, that of paternalism rancio and that of threats and blackmail to the sectors that you should protect and defend. And far from doing that, what you do is threaten them if they oppose any question you pose. That's the policy you practice. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Of course, as much as you try, you can't cover reality instead of acting to solve the problems. Look, the extractive sector of the Arousa River is strategic because of the wealth and employment it generates. 44% of the seafarers on foot are in the Arousa River, 68% of the bats of Mexillon, 41% of the vessels of minor arts, 1,700 fishing boats and 800 auxiliaries of fishing and aquaculture. We're not talking about any joke, Mrs. Quintana, and the alarm is more than justified. They don't believe the safety of the warehouses, nor those that are already there, nor those that you intend to take there. They are not harmless; if they are applied to international toxicity and sediment quality values based on their effects on marine living beings, they would not exceed the levels considered minimum to be non-toxic. And you know that and you're in those reports that tell me you're looking for it on the Internet, they're clearly there. Of course, I ask you today to put your hands on the work, to stop threatening that, if there is opposition to the spills in the mouth of the river, no more dredging will be done, no more threatening to do so. Its responsibility and obligation is to carry out all the dredgings that are needed, make them with guarantees, and, if the muds are contaminated, treat them and find a place to deposit them that is not polluting. That's your duty and that's what you have to get to work. [[Applause]] Its obligation is to guarantee an alternative to the mud that does not harm the productive sectors, ecosystems, the environment, the yellow rivers, in general, and the Arousa creek, in particular. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u356	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u357	Less threats and more work, Mrs. Quintana.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u358	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. For the Government's reply, the sea councillor, Mrs. Quintana, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u359	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Prado, no escapism, no concealment, no threats, those words don't enter my language or my way of acting. You'll know what others were doing before I got to the Government, but, of course, that kind of performance doesn't go with me. [[Applause]] Look, I'm going to explain one thing, which you might know and you couldn't tell her here. And I ask him to adjust to the truth. Can you tell me, and can you explain to the entire sector of the Arousa River — which you know well — where they took the dreaches they did from 2006 to 2009 in the port of Baiona, in the port of Guarda, in the port of Bodion? Where did they take them? [[Murmurs.]] What tests did they do? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I suppose they have taken them, because they are included in the dossiers, to the point of view which is authorized in the area outside the Lower Rhine and which has been authorised since 1998 by CEDEX, which meets all the requirements laid down by the Community directives. And for you to tell me that I do things with the head and the foundation, I'll tell you that the project of dredging the Lérez River begins in 2011. In 2014, when all sediments had been characterized, there was a change in regulation and we had to start doing the project again from scratch, and it started again. And in 2017 it was exposed to the public, it was to public information. And there you have all the analytical results, where they say they don't even reach level A, which is the lowest level of contamination. That data you know, that data you know on the platform. Sixteen allegations were made to this project — none of them, of course, yours. But what I'm telling you is that today we can say that all the data being processed says that there is no contamination in those arids and that we strictly comply with the Community directives, with the CEDEX directives and with the rules that the Directorate-General for Sustainability of the Coast sets us up. We don't do anything that can harm the sector. Let's not alarm the sector. Let's not say that these funds are contaminated because they're not, and so they believe the analyses that have been made. And we have to comply with the directive that says what is extracted from the sea has to go back to the sea. And we're going to use as much area as we can to recover the seafood banks... Area, ma'am! [[Murmurs.]] It's not waste. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If it were waste, we'd have to get them out and treat them. It's about sand that may have different sizes. The big can be to use it to recover seafood banks — which is what will be done in this case, 221,000 square meters of seafood banks will recover. And the thinner area is the one that goes to the point of dumping that is authorized by CEDEX, a point where you have to follow up every five years. And the last follow-up to him was in 2016, which ensures that the point is still great to meet these kinds of materials that are being taken there. And please, what I'm asking you to do is make it clear to the sector, if you can't take the waste from the areas that are extracted...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u360	Finish. Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u361	...where would you throw them? Do you want more than four thousand trucks to travel around the center of Pontevedra carrying that material? [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u362	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u363	Do you want it like that? Well, I don't think that's a formula.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u364	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u365	And I'm telling you, they're going to prohibit the port being able to be the docks of the boats.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u366	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u367	There you are and your conscience, but, of course, as long as I can, I will continue to work to defend my sector. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u368	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Question by D. Antón Sánchez García and D. Marcos Cal Ogango, from G.P. de In Marea, about the opinion of the Government of Greece regarding the benefits that will report to the neighborhood the deployment of the wind parks of Bustelo, Monte Toural and Campelo, in the municipalities of Carballo, Coristanco and Santa Comba
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u369	Mr. Sánchez García has the floor to put the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u370	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. The wind model that you apply in Galicia is a model that is contrary to general interest, which delivers natural resources — in this case, territory and wind — to foreign capitals, mostly banks, vacuum funds, constructors or electricity, so that they do a huge business. For the country there are the crumbs and the impacts. You make laws as you already own more than eighty-five percent of the wind capital in Galicia, which bill annually about six hundred million euros. The latest customised law, the "predation law", was made to the dictates of these companies with all the facilities for the installation of all the plots intended to be installed before 2020 in this country. One of these cases is the wind farms of Campelo, Toural and Bustelo, in the municipality, essentially of Coristanco, but also plays Santa Comba and Carballo. It's three parks because they're fraudulent and artificially fragmented into three. Because they actually have the same promoter—Greenalia Wind Power—the same geographic area and even share evacuation lines and the transformer station. This is a very common practice to avoid the assessment of the cumulative impacts of the three parks and synergies, and also to prevent them from escaping the management of the Galician Union. The installation of 27 new generation air carriers, with a height exceeding one hundred and fifty meters and in an area with numerous population nuclei, would impact the natural heritage, with protected spaces of high value and with species in danger of extinction and endemics in the area itself, in the cultural heritage and, above all, in the lives of people, because, on many occasions, air carriers will be installed at a distance of between four hundred and a thousand metres from the houses. There's a case where they're 500 metres from the Campelo and Miras nucleus, which obviously will have an effect on the lives of these people. Even so, with all these conditions — natural heritage, people's lives and cultural heritage — the Galician Union declared this project of special interest, with the resulting facilities and procedures reduced to half as approved in that "Depredation Law". The declaration of public utility was also approved. And I wonder, Counselor, what public utility? I can only see how useful it is for a private company to come here to do August. This is, once again, the recent history of this country, where the lignite was swept away in Meirama and The Bridges and the rivers were occupied for companies outside to come to become millionaires. And, for years, we've suffered the wind rage. And all to stay with the impacts and with electricity equal or more expensive than in other areas where it doesn't produce; all with its complicity, defending a model that doesn't return wealth to the country, to citizenship, and which, even above, causes impacts on people's lives. So, Counsellor, what are the reasons for adopting a declaration of special interest and a statement of public utility? Do you think this park has a positive impact on the lives of the neighbors and neighbours in that area, who also have rights? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u371	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u372	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Sánchez, you don't change your speech, which I think is good, is quite consistent with your group's position. But you know perfectly well that what the Galician Board thinks about these parks will, as always, be what determines the outcome of its environmental processing and strict compliance with the regulations. You know perfectly well that all wind farms have to go through a thorough examination of each of the departments of the Galician Union, both of urbanism, of the middle of the countryside, of Ganderia, of agriculture... ultimately of all those impacts that can be generated. And, therefore, every evaluation of the parks goes through this study of each of the departments. I believe and I believe, as I have already told you, an irresponsibility for your band to transfer a message of mistrust to the administration itself and to the work that is done from a technical point of view. I will read article 1 of Law 21/2013 on environmental assessment, a law which states that a high level of environmental protection must be ensured throughout the territory of the State in order to promote sustainable development. The Galician Union is strictly applying this law, and therefore we objectively apply the processing of all these parks. Unfortunately, Galicia is already meeting them. In Marea it is simply the political party of the "no" from not to the wind, not to the thermals, not to the mining, not to the Ence... ultimately of everything that means a future for Galicia. We're going to continue to work to generate jobs, to participate and to drive an energy transition centered on renewable energy. And I think it would be good if you studied the law of business implementation in detail. I don't think you have the full text. I would like, Mr. Sánchez, to have told me a single measure which is included in that law which reduces the environmental guarantees that were already established in Galicia, a single measure which implies a reduction in the guarantees that are available in parks. She can't find it and, unfortunately, she's still having a demagogic speech, just generating mistrust. I think we'll keep working to boost the sector, a sector that's generating a positive impact on our economy, generating jobs and driving a more renewable economy. And let's hope they drop that "no" one at a time. They start thinking and working a little for Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u373	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Sánchez García has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u374	Well, you won't have to tell the neighbors and neighbors of this area, because, Counselor, honestly, you haven't answered what I asked you or could not say anything about this specific project. I haven't changed my speech because, unfortunately, you don't change your practice. And of course they're meeting us. You also know them, you know them from the turn doors, the hard disks, the Arsenio Fernández de Mesa, the base doors, etc. They're already getting to know them: the corruption party. So of course we don't trust each other. The distrust is not in the technicians, it is in their government, in the government of a People's Party that has been shown in their history for those who work, and for those who also work in the wind sector, a sector that could be used to generate rural wealth for people. And the only thing it's worth is for them to fly the benefits, juicy benefits. You know that installing a megawatt today is about eight hundred thousand euros and that this megawatt can bill in one year — with conservative estimates — two hundred thousand euros. It's a round business at the expense of resources that are all—the territory—and of resources that are all—the wind—with laws made by parliaments that say they seek the general interest of people. And finally, what we have after years and years of People's Party Government is a model where 85% of the capital is foreign and where practically the crumbs are left here, and less will remain with the new model that you're pushing. But what's happening is, the people of Coristanco, the people of Santa Comba and Carballo who are affected by this wind park, and who may be affected by this wind park, are concerned because they're going to set up a few a thousand meters from their homes, in some case 500 meters away. And he wants to know if he'll be able to live there in the future. And you say they're very strict. You can see what happened at the Oribio saw last week and how rigorous they are. And with regard to the question you ask me, when I'm counsellor, I'll answer you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u375	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. Mr. Conde López has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u376	Well, I think you should start by knowing Galicia's regulatory framework, especially when you come here to raise subjects that are regulated and that there is therefore a law that we have to apply. Mr. Sánchez, when you speak of your interest in helping large multinationals, etc., do you know that the wind sector is liberalized in Galicia? Do you know that any promoter can present a project on equal terms that any company in Galicia? He doesn't know, of course, logically, because he doesn't know the contents of that law. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Do you know that the wind sector plan prevents any kind of aerogeor from being established less than 500 metres away? [[Murmurs.]] Why are you talking to me about a thousand meters? Why does he want to come here — as he always does — to deceive people? Why? Why do you come to deceive people? Unfortunately, what I should do is study a little more, and from then on, surely, establish a debate that makes more sense. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He knows that the wind sector is liberalized, that any promoter, regardless of its size, can present a project in Galicia. You know perfectly well that the Enterprise Implementation Act has neither established nor removed any type of environmental or urban guarantee. And you know perfectly well that law actually allowed flexibility from the point of view of administrative processing, which thanks to this in Galicia is developing 464 megawatts and that Galicia will therefore continue to promote the wind sector. He knows perfectly well that he has a positive impact on the Greek economy. He knows perfectly well that it's a sector that generates 30,000 jobs, that you don't seem to value properly. He knows there's a wind canon that benefits all the Greeks — 23 million euros —. He knows perfectly well that wind farms benefit the whole neighborhood because they have municipal taxes to collect the municipalities. Finally, he knows that the wind sector has a positive impact that you don't want to recognize. Unfortunately, they do not accept that the Act of Entrepreneurship called for a boost for the wind sector, a liberalisation of the sector that allows the parks to be promoted in an orderly manner, while maintaining compliance with the guarantees. And please don't fool people, don't say here requirements that aren't established. Every park has to go through every department in which it generates some kind of impact. And while I see you don't care about the content of the law, I think before you bring back any kind of wind sector approach you should at least know your regulations. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u377	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question from Da. Marta Novoa Churches and six other members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the assessment of the Government of Greece regarding the impact of the Central Government's action in Galicia in relation to the continuity of Alcohol in the Coruña and the future of the electrointensive industry
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u378	To put the question, Mr. Tellado Filgueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u379	Thank you, President. Paradoxes of politics, because, after listening to us for three years that steal the wind, at last, to the group that said so much and repeated, you know, counselor, what happened to him? It went with the wind, it went with the wind. [[Laughter]] And there they go, there they go. Mr. Counsellor, as you can see — jokes aside — to the opposition groups, to the left groups, they are no longer concerned about Alcoa. In this plenary session this week, decisive for the future of Alcoa, they have had the opportunity to introduce some kind of initiative on the agenda of this session. They didn't. And you know why they didn't? The Socialist Party, simply because of the guilt and responsibility it has on this matter. No reason the Socialist Party didn't. But do you know why you didn't include it on the agenda of this session either the Galician Nationalist Block or the tides of Podemos -- I suppose you'll like the name now? Do you know why they didn't even introduce it? Because they're the necessary accomplices. Because of their complicity, which unites them to the socialists, in responsibility on this issue. They are — they are here — the executioners of the Greek electrointensives and their faithful collaborators. [[Murmurs.]] The truth is, I could take this few minutes today to explain what is the position of the Galician People's Party on electrointensive, but I won't. I am going to devote these minutes to giving a voice in this Parliament to the representative of Workers' Committees on the Alcoa-A Coruña Business Committee, Miguel Conde, who was currently participating in Galicia in front of Radio Galega. [[Murmurs.]] And so I'm not giving my opinion here today. I want to read the opinion of the representative of the workers of Alcoa in the Coruña, and read textually his words, so that they may remain here in the Journal of Sessions: "We want to ask are the guarantees of the Government, which has committed itself to us in January, and what we lack is that electrointensive statute that regulates the price of energy. What the Government is doing is to pass on to us the hot potato and it is not affecting the promised in its day, which is to regulate the price of energy, which is unique and exclusive competence of the central government"—the words of Miguel Conde, the Alcohol Company Committee in the Coruña. And it goes on: "In Spain it is practically impossible to produce primary aluminium with the price of energy we have, which is going around 55 euros per average megawatt. Then it's unrelenting, and Parter won't start the electrolysiss and end up throwing those over 200 workers into the street if the government doesn't take on its commitment — which is still missing —. All he's doing is diverging the problem twenty-four months." Mr. Miguel Conde continues, and says about the Minister of Energy Transition:
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u380	Finish. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u381	"He's still away. Here the only thing that's hiding is the reality of the problem and putting all responsibility on us." These are the words of the representative of the Business Committee. I, Counselor, ask you to assess the Government about this situation, which now has nothing to worry about the groups on the left.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u382	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u383	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Tellado, I really appreciate the fact that it brings to this plenary the situation of Alcoa, the situation of the future of electrointensive companies, because there is a reality that we are living, which we are still facing, which is the situation that all the workers of Alcoa-La Coruña are experiencing at the moment of enormous uncertainty and enormous difficulty. I think it is good to share with all the parliamentary groups in this Parliament which were the three objectives that we have set out for the Government, the autonomous communities, the business committees and the unions that signed the ERE when we proposed the Alcoa solution on June 30. There were three objectives: firstly, the maintenance of 100 percent of employment — shared by all sides — and secondly, that there was an integral solution for both plants, both the Coruña plant and the Avilés plant; and thirdly, the Government assumed the commitment to establish a competitive electric price that would allow the production of aluminum to continue. Well, if we want to be realistic right now, we have a situation in which there is a binding offer, which is the offer of Parter, which unfortunately is a temporary solution to the conflict of Alcoa-La Coruña. It is a temporary solution because, of the three objectives, there is an objective that has not been met, which is simply that the Government has failed to fulfil its commitment to establish an electric price to guarantee 100 percent of employment in the Alcoa da Coruña and Avilés plants. That's reality, and so we're in a situation in which at the moment workers have to adopt a difficult solution, because they have to know that, unfortunately, the lack of government commitment to establish that electric price prevents the buyer, Parter, at the moment, from conditioning the maintenance of employment to the existence of a competitive electric price. So we can't guarantee right now that 100 percent of employment on the Crown plant is maintained because there's no commitment on the part of the Government to maintain the electric price. We, Mr Tellado, will continue to support the workers, we will continue to support the situation of the Alcoa plant, we will continue to work for the Government to fulfil its commitment and we will continue to work for primary aluminium production in Galicia and Spain. But to do that, we need a responsible government to be able to put solutions and not put a problem on the situation of aluminum and electro-intensive companies in Spain. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u384	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde. Mr. Tellado Filgueira has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u385	If they don't want to listen to us, the People's Party — that they never want to listen to us — listen to the representatives of the workers. He continued in his interview on Radio Galga talking about the future of Alcoa in San Cibrao, and he said textually, "I wish never to pass them, but the San Cibrao factory we fear that it will soon go the same way because, with this price of primary aluminum, with an energy price on an average of 55 euros or megawattium, it is impossible to produce primary aluminium, which is 40% of our costs." And he insisted on the passivity of the Government since last January, of the Socialist Government. And so, gentlemen, if they don't want to listen to us, who are from the People's Party, listen to the workers. Or have the Alcoa workers already put them on the side of those workers whose job is useless and they can lose it, as they do with many companies that you want to close? But let's not be mistaken. There's not one guilty here, there's not one responsible. The Socialist Party has accomplices, it has collaborators, it has the useful fools who participate in this strategy of the Socialist Party, and they are indeed the tides of Pudimos and indeed the Nationalist Block Galego. [[Murmurs.]] Look, in the middle of 15 days, we called on BNG to condition its support for PSOE in the municipalities and in the deputies for approval at the Council of Ministers of the Statute of the Intensive Industry. Counselor, do you know what happened? That they did not condition their support to the socialists absolutely nothing. BNG has given its support to the Socialist Party in exchange for nothing. No, not at all; in exchange for the little ones and places in the deputies and the municipalities. What happened to the Alcoa workers? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That they continue in their situation of abandonment. Look, the BNG lords are very hard to criticize the Government of the Union and criticize the People's Party, but they're very soft with regard to the Socialist Party and also with regard to the Galician Resistance. Towards them, towards the Socialist Party and towards the Galician Resistance, soft, soft, soft.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u386	Finish, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u387	That is the reality and commitment with Galicia of opposition groups.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u388	Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u389	Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u390	For the Government's replication turn, Mr. Conde López has the floor of the Councillor for Economics, Employment and Industry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u391	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Tellado, indeed, the situation of Alcoa and the situation of electrointensive companies requires a calm debate, and requires...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u392	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u393	I know that the opposition doesn't care about the Alcoa-La Coruña situation, it doesn't care about the situation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u394	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u395	... from electro-intensive companies. But — as it was moving them — it seems reasonable to face this issue with realism. And the realistic situation is that, if there is no electric price, Alcoa-La Coruña has no future in primary aluminium production, that's the reality. And the reality is, if there's no electric price solution...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u396	Mr. Losada, Mr. Losada... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, what do you want me to say? Those kind of facts are also... we're going to leave them. Please, let's leave them. Let's leave them. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u397	I repeat, if there is no competitive price in electrointensive companies, Alcoa has no future in primary aluminium production. And if the socialist government doesn't give a solution, in electrointensive companies, unfortunately, there can be a contagion effect, in Alcoa-San Cibrao, in Ferroatlantica, in Megasa or Celsa. So it's a matter of responsibility. At this point, we are in a situation where Alcoa-La Coruña only has the possibility to falsely close its situation. And he has to falsely close his situation because, unfortunately, the Government does not transfer a concrete solution at the price of electricity. We will therefore continue — as I said — to support the situation of Alcoa-La Coruña, we will continue to support the situation of electrointensive companies, but that requires an answer. The government has been doing so for ten months without giving a single realization of the Statute of the Intensive Industry and progressively diminishing the results of the electric drive. They know that the power supply only yielded a result of less than two hundred million euros, when in 2017 it was more than five hundred million euros. So there's no competitive price. Alcoa-La Coruña doesn't have a competitive price to be able to continue production of primary aluminium. And unfortunately, we are at risk at the moment that there is a contagion effect. Therefore, the government's responsibility is to meet the demands of electrointensive companies and autonomous communities for a realization. There was no response to the allegations made by the Galician Board to the Statute of Electrointensive Consumers, and there is no concrete answer to Parter so that it can commit more than two years to maintain 100 percent of employment. That was the Government's commitment, which is going to be, unfortunately, a partial solution. And we, from the Galician Union, will continue to support the workers to convert that partial solution ultimately. But for that, it requires the Government to commit itself and to establish a competitive electric price that benefits Alcoa-La Coruña, Alcoa-Avilés and also the rest of the electro-intensive companies in Galicia and Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Question from Noa Presas Bergantiños and five other Members from the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the actions planned by the Government of Greece to prevent any fraudulent sale that endangers the conditions of the concession of the hydroelectric use of the river Xallas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u398	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u399	Thank you, President. Mr. Conde, the truth is that I had a lot of questions for you, but in view of the fact, if the future of this country's industry depends on what happens in the Greek municipalities, I don't know if I'm going to start by asking you and the panda of useful fools that you have at the Congress of Deputies to go home and save some time. [[Applause]] Finally, going to the issues that are relevant, after the comical minutes of this plenary, Mr. Conde, you know that since last June 4 Ferroatlantic's intention to sell Greek assets to a U.S. fund has not ceased to raise the concern on both the Coast of Death and Artex. And we must also remember that Ferroatlantica is a company that has a history of non-compliance with this country that makes these mistrusts well founded: more than 20 years of history without modernizing infrastructures and more than two decades also exploiting our natural resources, whether hydroelectric or miners, without sufficient return. We can talk, for example, in the case of solar silicon, about how R+D+i is moving to Portlano or we can talk about how in the case of railways workers constantly have to be struggling for their rights. Among Villar Mir's latest extortions to our country in 2017, we have this attempt to segregate the power stations; more recently, also the dismissal of a worker who had to readmit for violating the most elemental right of freedom of expression; or an unjustified ERE — which even in this Parliament we discussed about the few justifications he had — that this company has finally raised, proving that the only one behind it was blackmail. At this point it is also surprising that, despite Ferroatlantic's intention to sell, it is confirmed by this company itself that it does not intend to withdraw the resources against the waters of Galicia by the question of segregation. And they're also surprised at all those movements that finally have the workers and workers of Soap in a bad way with the scission of this factory from the rest of the industrial unit. All of this are indicators that we can be in front of an operation that could be fraudulent and that has a hidden agenda behind it; a hidden agenda for a makeup operation, a financial engineering operation, by which the buyer company would have a pact already with Villar Mir so that one part would stick to the production of ferroalloys and, on the other hand, if hydroelectric production separated, which is really the chicken from the golden eggs. So we'd be in front of an operation that would seek to get through the back door what they denied up to two judicial judgments and also that water report from Galicia. Therefore, you know, Mr. Conde — because he has been gathered with workers — who are very concerned. And today we want to add to that concern and ask you what you're going to do to prevent any fraudulent sale that would question this issue of power stations.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u400	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u401	Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u402	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u403	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Presas, Parliament is not a theatre. It's not a theater where you come to simplify and chill about our country's industry. And Parliament is not a theatre for you to talk about certain workers; and other workers, no. Parliament is where we are to defend the interests of the workers. And Parliament is where we are to defend the interests of our country's industry. And you should know that, in most industrial policy decisions, competences have the central government. And the People's Party is not exactly what is currently supporting the government of Pedro Sánchez. What is supporting the government of Pedro Sánchez is the Galego Nationalist Block. [[Laughter]] And what's complicit is that companies are currently closing down in Galicia as Meirama, as Elnosa, or as the attempt to close Ence, is the Socialist Party. And the useful accomplice for that to take place is called "Galeg Nationalist Block." [[Applause]] So, Your Honor, I would like to thank you, if you want to talk about industrial policy, talk about industrial policy; but really talk about industrial policy. And speak of industrial policy for all the Greeks and for all the workers, not for the workers who only want to defend the Nationalist Block. The workers know, both the workers of EEC-Dumbria and the workers of Soapón, that here is a government that defends them all, all, Mrs Presas; all and not only a part of the workers. We're in constant contact with them and they know that we're not going to make any distinctions, like the Galician Nationalist Block does when it comes to industry. I don't know, Mrs. Presas, why they want to generate doubts about this government, I don't know. You'll know, you'll know. This government transferred in 2017 a very clear idea and a very clear performance: that would not allow the segregation of hydroelectric power plants in the Ferroatlantic factory. He transferred it very clearly and clearly, and so he did. And I don't know why you want to move in this Parliament, right now, that there may now be some doubt that this Government will be the guarantor of compliance with the concessions and, therefore, that this Government will be the guarantor of continued industrial activity, that there is no segregation between the hydroelectric power stations and the Ferroatlantic factories. Therefore, Mrs Presas, focus on debates, focus on defending industrial policy, cease to be the useful accomplice of the Socialist Party — which is closing companies in Galicia — and from there we can certainly be setting up a debate to defend the interests of all industrial workers in Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u404	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Presas Berganginos has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u405	Mr. Conde, theater is a very dignified art that, in fact, does not deserve the behaviour of its parliamentary group. Well, look back and throw the brooch at them, and not to the Nationalist Block of Wales for asking. It's funny, today we're just getting rid of it for only Ferroatlantics, but every time we ask about some industry in this country, we've got triple bronze. [[Applause]] So we don't know what to do to please you anymore, Mr. Count. But, look, now that there's no one listening to us, I'm going to tell you a secret: the BNG — unfortunately for us and for this country — has no representation in Congress, it won't unfortunately condition Sánchez's investment. You have that capacity. Apply your story. They apply their story and condition Pedro Sánchez's investment with measures in favour of our industry. I wish I could do it ourselves, but unfortunately we can't at the moment. [[Applause]] Look, you came here again with your permanent campaign suit -- you must be afraid if there's a repeat of the elections -- to throw balloons out for the central government. I insist again that we maintain the same criticisms of the energy and industrial model whoever's in Madrid, Mr. Conde. But there's a question that you deny, over and over again — and it's a shame you won't listen to me if you're talking on the phone — but the granting of the Xallas power stations is a Greek concession, it's your sole responsibility for the Galician board. So I know you must have given away the Statute of autonomy once, when you had it in your hand; but, at least for that matter, it should apply a little. And you know that if you want to be the guarantor of compliance with these conditions, what you have to do is get involved in this sale process, you have to be in the hands of the workers and workers. You know the buyer really refused to give them an audience. Therefore, it is time for you to fulfill your responsibility as an adviser to Economics, Employment and Industry, and to involve yourself, in the hands of workers and workers, in order to protect and to ensure that this process, if consumed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u406	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u407	...be clean and with guarantees for the industrial future of this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u408	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. In the Government's reply, the Councillor for Economics, Employment and Industry, Mr. Conde López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u409	Madam Presas, with all courtesy, I fully understand that you certainly at the individual level do not agree with many of the decisions that are being made in your parliamentary group. I understand it perfectly because I, surely, if I were a militant of the Galician Nationalist Block, would acquire some concern for the bipartite, tripartite and tetrapartite pacts that you are assuming at the moment. I would be worried because, instead of defending the interests of workers in the electrointensive industry in Galicia, they are engaged in other kinds of activities. And I'd like to know why they don't ask their partners in the Socialist Party of Galicia, why they don't, that we can approve the status of electro-intensive consumers. I didn't hear that at any time. And you're in agreement with the Socialist Party, you're in agreement. I know he doesn't like us telling him this, but they're dealing with bipartites, tripartites and quadripartites. Therefore, Mrs. Presas, a little coherence and, when you come here to raise claims about industry in Galicia, you should certainly look to your right and also to your left, and you would surely change your mind and not speak as vehemently, as you did in your intervention. You're talking about involvement. Play ears, Mrs. Presas, play ears! This government is in constant contact with EEC and Dumbria workers and with Sabón workers, in permanent contact. He's in contact with Ferroglobe, he's in contact with the buyers, and he's actually protecting this situation. And you know what I'm telling you? That we're not going to change our mind. And Ferroglobe, the buyers and the workers know perfectly two things: firstly, that this Government will not allow any kind of segregation in Ferroatlantic, any kind of segregation; and secondly, that this Government will guarantee the maintenance of industrial activity, which means ensuring compliance with the concessions as they are established, and for that we will logically demand an industrial plan and a plan of viability that guarantees that maintenance of industrial activity. It's so simple, Mrs. Presas. Why do you want to confuse people? We are absolutely transparent and absolutely clear in our exhibition. And of course you can't say. I insist: Ferroglobe knows, buyers know, and workers know. We will maintain our commitment to compliance with hydroelectric concessions and therefore there will be no segregation and we will ensure that industrial activity is maintained. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u410	Thank you very much, Counselor. Da María de la Concepción Burgo López e D. Luís Manuel Álvarez Martínez, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the fundamental characteristics of the private university project presented by Afonación Abanca
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u411	To put the question, Mrs. Burgo López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u412	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Counsellor, as you have officially met recently, the Galician board is processing an application for the creation of a private university promoted by Affirmation, Abanca. Of course, this enters into current legislation and legislation, and it can, of course, legally do it. But this possibility of creating a private university is causing an important anxiety and concern in the university community in Galicia. First of all, because you know absolutely nothing about the project, and secondly, because you're afraid that it might have a negative impact on the Galician university system. It's the directors of the three universities who publicly and clearly expressed their concerns about this project. First of all, they ask — and we are absolutely in agreement — that the process of processing be carried out in an absolutely strict, rigorous and scrupulous way, with complete transparency. I think, in addition, universities should already know this project perfectly. On the other hand, there is the problem of titrations, another cause of serious concern. Of course, you cannot, under any concept, have this private university titles that are equal — not even similar — to those offered within the Greek university system, either in their denominations or, above all, in their contents. As soon as the German University System, the public universities, had an application to a very restrictive titration map, which has banned a double-duplicity of titrations, even those who have a demand. There's a concern about the student access system too, which has to be absolutely the same as in public universities. Because a private university can't decompensate the public system. In this sense, it must be borne in mind that public universities are losing their education through a demographic fall, but also through a union policy called a "stability commitment" that prohibits the implementation of new titrations. If you do this introduction of new titrations, there has to be a reduction in the number of students equal, in equivalent number, in other titrations. And there's also a concern about the qualification of the teacher who imparts teaching, which has to be of quality, with the same needs and with the same requirements as in the public. In short, we want to know if you are committed, Madam Counsellor, to which, if you go ahead with this public university project, it serves to enrich the Greek university system and to improve it with a complementary offer to the existing one and with a qualified and quality teaching template, and which also contains this alleged university with the necessary resources. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u413	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pomar Tojo has the floor of the Councillor for Education, University and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u414	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Mrs. Burgo, with regard to the creation of a private university in Galicia, you know that it will depend solely on compliance with the current legislation — and therefore, yes, we are going to be strict — both state and autonomous, and whether it will be passed by law in this House or not. In addition, you also know perfectly well that the existence of private universities in Spain is something normal, it is something common, even in autonomous communities that are governed by other political parties. It is therefore surprising that, in his explanatory statement, he alludes to the possibility that the creation of a private university of the Abanca Foundation in Galicia, Afondazione, is causing considerable anxiety in the university community. There is no need to generate alarms where there are no alarms. And it's surprising, among other things, because in December 2018, in a response from the 4th Commission of the Secretary General of Universities, the state of the project was already explained, and what were the legal requirements it had to meet. And since then the Council has pointed out that, in view of the legal requirements to be met, if the creation of the private university were to be approved, if it were to be approved, it would not have to affect the Galician university system. In this sense, as the Greek rectors have stated at the end of the last Galego Council of Universities, the position of the Council on this matter is that it is complied with by law, and that the authorization of the new private university always serves to enrich the University System of Galicia. The procedure is regulated in Law 6/2013, of 13 June, of the Galician University System, and it is also applicable that established by Organic Law 6/2001, of 21 December, of universities, as amended by Organic Law 4/2007, of 12 April, of universities, and the Royal Decree 420/2015 of 29 May, of creation, recognition, authorization and accreditation of universities and university centers. The German and state regulatory framework enables the coexistence of public and private universities. In fact, Galicia is the only autonomous community in which, with more than one public university, there is no private one. And I'm telling you more: when in December there was a debate on this matter in Commission 4th, the number of private universities in Spain was thirty-four, but now they're more than forty, after the new authorizations. And there are many of these universities from the rest of the state, especially those on-line, which make up real competitors from the public universities in Wales, while picking up the student from Greek at private prices. All these private universities have a favourable report from the Ministry and the autonomous communities. In the case of the Greek legislation, there is a requirement for the existence of two branches of knowledge, the report of socio-economic relevance or prior experience in university management. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u415	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the replica turn, Mrs. Burgo López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u416	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, this is not the first time I've heard you say there's no private university here. What do you mean by this argument? You mean we need a private university, that the private system is better, that we can't be the weird ones in Spain and that's why we're going to have a private university? Look, I think, of course, as a Socialist Group, we always defend and are advocates of public education. I think for you too, your fundamental obligation is the defense of public university, your fundamental obligation, whether or not there is private university here. [[Applause]] Of course we must comply with the law, but the law always has many interpretations. For example, Article 13 states that "the catalogue of titles offered must be complementary and non-repetitive with regard to pre-existing titles..." and "particularly their connection with new branches will be valued". This leaves room for a decision of the Council itself. I want you to have the commitment that it will be absolutely rigorous with all this process. And, look, of course there are private universities, of course. But that doesn't mean they're all good. As you know perfectly well, there are many private universities of very unrecommendable quality that are good for the system. You also know, or I hope you know, that you have to contribute something to that university, because simply your existence doesn't say anything. It's just that I'm worried about it, because every time you talk about it, it says there's no private university. Which may lead her to consider if it is necessary to have her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u417	Thank you very much. He has the Government's reply to the Education, University and Vocational Training Counsellor, Mrs. Pomar Tojo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u418	Thank you, President. At no time did I say the existence of a private university is necessary. I myself am a professor at a public university. Therefore, the quality and excellence of the public university is guaranteed. What exists is a project, a project of private university presented, a project of private university in Galicia that is part of the foundation and whose proposal is born of the current Institute of Intercontinental Higher Education of the Company, a center currently ascribed to the University of Vigo by Decree 445/2009, in which the official studies of the degree in Administration and Management of Enterprises and University Masters are given in the direction and administration of Enterprises. So the first thing that's going to have to happen is a process of unsubscribing from the University of Vigo. So we're talking about a complex process, with phases, and that's not done in vacuum, it's not looking for a private university because there's none. Therefore, the intent of the promoters is to create a specific non-profit foundation, and they predict that 25% of students and students benefit from the scholarships of the entity's own, paid by income. The promoters of the initiative have experience in university education — this is the information I can give, so that they don't see that we've hidden anything, there's total transparency — since for years they've been managing the School of Business, the centre of the University of Vigo, where MBA is given high quality and employability rates. On the other hand, they have infrastructure throughout the autonomous community. And for the future private university -- if there is one -- they have the expectation of using new technologies in addition to present training. This initiative is already known to the founding members and the promoters, who have held briefings with the three directors, with the presidents of the social councils, with members of the Galego Council of Universities, with mayors, with presidents of deputies, with parliamentarians, and, according to the transfer to the Board, in no case have they warned of initial adverse reactions to the project. In addition, the higher education offer on this initiative would be extended with two characteristics: maintaining the quality assurance of it at the levels of the public offer that already exists and through the recognition of the first Greek university with offer specializing in certain and international issues. In the case of a new university institution in Galicia, the rules of play are clear: they consist of compliance — not interpretation — with the state and autonomy rules in this area. Therefore, it will be advertising object at the Open Transparency and Government Portal, and at that time society in general and public universities themselves will be able to know the full terms of the proposal. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-26-DSPG122.u419	Thank you very much, Counselor. Out of order of day, end of session.
