ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u1	Good morning. We resumed the session and asked questions for an oral reply by the President of the Union. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Antón Sánchez García of the G.P. Joint Left Group on the actions planned by the Government of Greece to resolve the serious problems facing Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u2	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u3	Good morning. Mr. Feijóo, to be the second autonomous community that has destroyed the state most in the last ten years is not possible by chance; it is the result of its policies; 22,500 industrial jobs less than in 2009, and rising. The policies of the People's Party reduce people's power and expand the business of friends, and all that from the institutions that should defend people. Privatizations that give power to multinationals and the loss of public power explain to a large extent many of the problems that now occupy the economy of this country. You, for example, privatized Endesa, giving him a billionaire business. It's no coincidence that the board of directors of this company looks like an executive of the People's Party. You, in a world scene of decarbonization, didn't put forward a plan that would shield the economic future of the Bridges and their workers if multinational Enel decided to close. He left the future of hundreds of people in the hands of a company who only sought their benefit. He's at least irresponsible, he worked for Endesa but not for Endesa's workers. His merger and privatization of the Galician boxes seriously injured our economy, ended up in the hands of a Venezuelan banker, who immediately cashed, selling assets from the industrial portfolio that one day stocked Caixanova and Caixa Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u4	Chisst.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u5	Then put on these muds. Abanca sold, for example, his shares in R to Basquel, which became controlled by a company that received millions and millions of public money. Now, with the decision-making centre away from Galicia, Euskaltel's business strategies put a thousand jobs at risk in the assistants of this company in Galicia; and you, without doing anything for the workers. It's like he doesn't do anything for the Isowat workers. Abanca had the mortgages on the land and facilities of this company in Medina del Campo and in Coruña. The Board of Castile-Leon reached an agreement with an investor and with Abanca to give the workers a future; you didn't do anything. They are the same boxes that gave their partner and companion of advertising campaigns Garcia Costas 60 million in loans when I was counsellor of the Box, in advantageous conditions and in the worst years of the crisis; that prominent militant of the People's Party who, with his negligent management, ruined Barreras and threatened 2,000 jobs and several assistants in Vigo. What can you tell me about Garcia Costas, Mr. Feijóo? How could it stop buying Barreras now? After all, it aims to save its heritage rather than its jobs. I think I should say here today what you've been talking to him these days. You are useless as a government for all workers of R, Isowat, Endesa, Vulcan or Barreras, and responsible for political decisions that led them to this situation. You had no solution for them because they never found themselves among their priorities. You worked for the powerful, for the companies that financed them and sometimes put them on the board of directors. Mr. Feijóo, do you intend to rule one day for most of the Greeks and the Greeks?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u6	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, ask me what we're going to do to solve the problems that arise in some companies in Galicia. I could reply to you at the end of this shift by telling you that the opposite of you is because you want to close Galician companies and what you want is to increase the unemployed in the Galician industry. You want to close The Bridges, you want to close Meirama, you want to close Ence, you want to close Reganosa, etc., etc., etc. So what we're going to do is keep working alongside Galician workers. You say unemployment is rising, it's nonsense about all this in our economic policy. Well, twenty-three consecutive quarters growing our economy above the Spanish economy, in most cases, it may seem insufficient. In any case, unemployment in Galicia has a better behavior than in the rest of Spain, and -- just because it gives it the data -- from this last legislation we have 46,000 unemployed less than when the legislation started and 61,000 more affiliated. You say we're in the second job-killing position. You must be anchored in the press summaries you've been through a while ago. You talk about Endesa and you say she was privatized by PP; if you don't remember or have any knowledge. Endesa was given by the Socialist Party to the multinational Enel, Italian, the multinational Enel, Italian, by its members of the Socialist Labour Party Spanish. [[Murmurs.]] And you're talking about the boxes and the people who had credits with the boxes, with Caixanova. You don't know that the Socialist Party has mounted my demonstration, in theoretical defense of Caixanova, it has brought out a hundred thousand vibes on the street simply to lie to them continuously and to maintain a box that had no economic viability and, thanks to this government remaining firm, there is today a company, a financial entity located in Galicia that preserves more than 4,500 workers in the autonomous community? Just like I tell you. The rest we're going to do is the economic policies that are different from what you're proposing. But, look, in order not to get into fights and not just to get into press headlines, we just made a very specific proposal, for example, to save five thousand jobs in the autonomous community: electro-intensive companies. We've just made a proposal since the Government of Spain minds us. Mr Sánchez lied to us saying that he was going to present that statute in April, he lied! You lie to us the Minister of Industry coming here saying that last week I would present the status, lying! We just presented a proposal for electrointensive status. Do you support them or not? Are you going to include in your election program for the November 10 election? Yes or no? We propose a series of very clear and very concrete measures: fiscal measures, measures to reduce the burden of taxes, promotion of long-term energy recruitment, and, in addition, measures that benefit all consumers from the reduction of electricity. The proposal is: do you agree? Yes or no? Do you support the proposal of this electrointensive status that the economic, industrial and employment advisor proposed yesterday? Yes or no? Say it, Mr. Sánchez. If the rest is wasting time. Do we support – or as they are called – the proposal that the People's Party of Spain will introduce into its electoral programme to ensure the price of light between 35 and 40 euros in favour of electro-intensive companies, save Alcoa, which is 8,000 direct and indirect jobs, and save another five thousand jobs of electro-intensive companies in Galicia? Yes or no? You're going to be a member of the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u9	...or as a worker partner? We with the workers, Mr. Anton. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u10	Thank you, President. Replica, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u11	Mr. Feijóo, contrary to what we intend to do to you? Well, by doing the opposite to us, you destroyed 22,500 jobs in the industry. You accuse us of wanting to close companies, but with whom they close it is with you, Mr. Feijóo. You don't respect the workers of Isowat, of R, of Vulcan, of Barreras, because nothing says about their future. I asked him the second time — in the whole past too. No solutions for these companies, Mr Feijóo. Mr. García Costas doesn't want to talk either. How soon do you forget two friends? They're only for taking pictures to do election campaigns, which when they come wrong you don't give your face, and don't say here what you're talking to him to solve or not solve, or hinder solutions for Vigo's assistants, Mr. Feijóo. Don't you want to talk about Mr. Garcia Costas? It seems you don't want to talk about what you are and you're responsible for closing Isowat in the Coruña, an integrative company -- best in the Spanish State with order portfolio -- the victim of the negligent management of an entrepreneur, whose workers are going to stay in the street because you haven't given him the solutions you've given him, for example, in Castile-Leon. Mr. Feijóo, the workers and the workers of R and their assistants spoke out yesterday in search of solutions. They are also victims of their merger of savings banks, which have been handed over at the balance price to a Venezuelan banker. It's your responsibility, Mr. Feijóo. As for Endesa, you say you're going to do the opposite to us. We've been saying for years that we had to make a plan for the future for the Bridges and the whisper for a possible closure of the thermal power stations, which was responsible. And you haven't done anything about it, and now we're in hands of what a multinational decides to which you've privileged. Felipe González privatized 25% of Endesa, Mr Feijóo; the rest privatized Mr Aznar, sitting Mr Pizarro and Mr De Guindos at the Board of Directors of Endesa. And it was you who made the Electric Sector Law, which made Endesa a million-millionaire, multi-millionaire business, the cost of raising the bill of light for all citizens. You're responsible, your decisions make Galicia now in an unprecedented industrial crisis, with threats of dismissals of thousands of workers for their inoperation. And not only because of their inoperability, because you worked for these big companies but not for the workers of those companies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u12	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u13	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u14	Close the question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u15	Mr. Sánchez, your proposal is published, the proposal was to close the bridge thermal power station. But your group didn't say it, you said it. I know you have different opinions in your group -- there's no more to see them -- but you were directly the accidental spokesman of that parliamentary group, yes: "It's a great news to close the thermal power station of the bridges," Mr. Sánchez said, Mr. Anton. Look, Mr. Sánchez, you know perfectly well that we're meeting with the Barriers unions, and, if you don't know, you're undocumented. And you know perfectly well that there's an actionary conflict in Barreras, and we've already saved Barreras once in the competition we meet when we get to the Government; and we're at the disposal of Barreras and the rest of the Welsh naval industry, and in fact, that naval industry has more orders from Europe, after Holland. If there's a stock problem in a company, I suppose it's not the government's fault, it's the direct responsibility of the shareholders. When you talk to me about other approaches, like Enel, but who wants to fool? Who do you want to fool if Mr. Solbes was councillor at the Enel Board of Directors? Who wants to fool if you are members of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party in all the performances and in all the demarcations — what do they leave them? Mr. Sánchez, speaking now and coming here distorting industry data... look, the wages of the Spanish industrial sector that have risen most in the last ten years are the industrial sectors of Galicia; 29% have risen in wages, although in the average of Spain it was 16%. Since 2014, which has been the culmination of the economic crisis, in Galicia we have created 26,300 jobs in the industrial sector. You say that we have problems in some companies, you don't say that we now have 2,000 million euros running on enlargements and investment increases in the Galician industry. PSA, 600 million; 20, Bentel; 75, Finsa; 23, Televés; Delta Vigo, 25; Boeing, Babcock and Indra, 50 million; 100 million, Star of Galicia; 100 million, Arbo, in PLISAN; 100 million in the dairy sector, Goodleit, in Curtis; 26 million in Coren; 129 million in Greenalia; Aluminium Cortizo, 56 million; 470 million in wind farms. EUR 2 billion in the industrial sector in the autonomous community. [[Applause]] The problem the autonomous community has, Your Honor, is the energy chaos of the socialist government. Why don't you join Galicia for once, since you always talk about Galicia and they care about anything Galicia? [[Murmurs.]] You are here exclusively to look for a bunch of Members in Madrid. Point. End of date. They never cared about Galicia and this party defends Galicia and its workers, lordship, Galicia and its workers. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Nothing tells me about Alcoa's problem. We have just brought to this House a proposal which should be resolved unanimously in the Greek Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u16	Chisst.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u17	What if, instead of Mr. Sánchez, Mr. Rajoy in the Moncloa government? Do you think you yourself wouldn't lead all the demonstrations in favour of the Alcoa workers? [[Murmurs.]] Where is the Left in Common defending the workers of Alcoa? [[Murmurs.]] Where is the Left in Common defending the workers of Alcoa, Your Honor? [[Applause]] We're here with a reasonable and reasonable proposal to defend Alcoa's work. Take off the face at once.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u18	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u19	Stop travelling to the headquarters of the Socialist Party and defend the factories and industries of the country, Your Honor. There we can meet, defending the workers, the industries and the factories of the country. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u20	Thank you, President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the deadline for the correction of cuts and privatizations that are affecting people's lives and health
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u21	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u22	Thank you very much. Mr. Feijóo, we asked you today what more has to happen to rectify your health policy. In two years two people died waiting for an emergency service, and we're not talking about numbers, they're people with names and names; they're José Manuel Brey and Jesús Pérez García. By the way, I want to take advantage, since the family is here today, to welcome him, to tell him that his pain is our pain and that we are outraged because none of this had to happen. [[Applause]] And don't try to close up such a serious matter telling us that you're going to open an investigation, as you did a year ago in the Road, and nobody knows anything about this investigation; it's an X file and a president's portrait that despises the victims of their cuts. What you have to explain to us is why in a territory of 1,700 square kilometers there were only two ambulances, and no medicalized. What you have to explain to us is why, knowing that in the Ten they've been demanding an ambulance with vital support for years now, you've been running a contest that ignores this claim. It assumes its responsibility, rectifies and, above all, stops thinking that it can cover up the health failure with manipulation and propaganda, as it has just done again with the 2020 budgets. You claim to increase 120 million euros in health care, but you hide that 60 million go directly to raise wages and hide that in primary care today there are 142 million euros less than when you arrived at the board. He assumes that he will create 407 squares, but he hides that these squares already exist, only that they are covered in precariousness, and hides that there are five thousand more vacancies in Sergas. In health you have only shown us to be effective when it comes to favouring private businesses, as in the case of Povervisa. He is not concerned that health, the health of 135,000 Greeks and Greeks will remain in the hands of the group Ribera Saúde, a company set up by corruption cases and that was born under the privatising wave of the People's Party in Valencia. He doesn't mind spending 30 million euros on a reform in San Caetano buildings, but he spares 24 million euros to be done with a hospital like Povervisa and rescues it for the public sector. [[Applause]] What we ask you to do, Mr. Feijóo, is correct. And we've come up with proposals to improve the health of this country. At least EUR 140 million must be increased in primary care budgets by 2020, we must convene the five thousand vacant squares of Sergas, we must rescue Povervisa for the public sector. And we also ask him, at the very least of humanity and sensitivity to what is happening in this country, not to leave this plenary session without compromising that there will be a medical ambulance for The Ten. Mr. Feijóo, no more cuts that kill and, of course, tell us what else has to happen to rectify a health policy that is jeopardizing people's lives.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. The President's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Our respect for the family of Jesus, who is among us in this session. Mrs Pontón, you know perfectly well that public health in Galicia is one of the best sanities in the European regions. And you know it perfectly because the Greeks say it, and the Greeks say that the assessment of health care and, in particular, primary care is at the highest rates of satisfaction since the Ministry of Health measures through the health barometer of the ministry itself. You know perfectly well that, for example, in primary care we are valued above the rest of Spain, in hospital incomes above the rest of Spain and in emergencies equally the evaluation is above the rest of Spain. You should know that, Mrs. Pontón, because when you ruled the Welsh health you didn't get a 6-point rating and now it's 6.5. You should also know — and not fool anyone — that we have 2,300 people working more in the public health system than when we arrived at the government in 2009, despite the economic recession and despite the crisis and the hole of 2,000 million euros that you left on duty in the public archives. You know that right now we have a budget that exceeds 500 million euros, 500 million euros, which we find when we get to the government — I insist — despite the crisis. You know that today there's less surgical waiting list than when we get to the government and, in the same way, you know that we're building and finishing hospitals than when we get to the government they weren't even in project. Therefore, you know, Your Honor, that we are constantly improving health and, in fact, of the 300 million euros that are budgeted in 2020, 128 million euros are destined exclusively for health. That is, of all the budgetary capacity of the Autonomous Community, 40% of all that capacity we attach to public health. This is to create 407 places with a vocation of permanence in the Galician Health Service, which, if we add them to the 2,300 that we have already increased, will be in 2020 with 2,700 professionals more in primary care and specialized care than when we arrive at the government. You also know perfectly well, Your Honor, that we just bid an ambulance contest; you should know, because you went out in the Official Journal of Galicia for your bid in September. And you know, Your Honor, that you shouldn't do demagogy or even with the pain of no Welshman, and I certainly won't do it, what I'm going to do is comply with my obligation. First, complete this investigation and report directly to the family members of the research. Secondly, we told Galicia that at the same time we had the occupied Lalín ambulance, the occupied Silleda ambulance, the occupied Carballin ambulance, the occupied Road ambulance, and, consequently, all the perimeter ambulances at Dozón were at that time taking patients, some of them with vital emergencies, to the rest of Galician hospitals. I should not hide that data, because it seems to me to hide that data is to make double damage to families and twice as much damage to public health in our country. And that's why, as since April, we've bid a new ambulance service, I want to tell you and all the Greek families that we've passed from a Galician ambulance contract of 121 million euros, which is what we had, to 185 million euros; that is, we've increased the spending on ambulances in the Autonomous Community by 53%, 64 million euros more a year. Tell me if at any point in the history of the Autonomous Community there were more ambulances working...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u25	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u26	...more ambulances carrying and bringing patients, and telling me if at any point in our history there was a higher budget for 061 than now. Look, Mrs. Pontón, there are over a thousand workers at 061. To say that 061 and the mobilization of ambulances is not being as operational and as effective as possible is simply to do...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u27	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u28	...an impromptu demagoxy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u29	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u30	...of any Greek family. All the Greek families have my respect, Mrs. Pontón, but I will never use them. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u32	Mr. Feijóo, the truth is, your answer is much more concerned. You won't get us to calm down when you report your health failure, and, of course, if it's demagogy for you to report that the cuts kill, we're going to continue to report, because it's very serious what's happening right now in the country. [[Applause]] Demagoxia is saying if you're going to do an investigation, Mr. Feijóo. He told us exactly the same thing a year ago, in the case of the Road CAP, and no one knows anything about this research and no one has taken any responsibility. That is demagogy, Mr. Feijóo, and that is to play with people's feelings and, above all, with the pain of those who see as someone who wants to die in circumstances where he shouldn't have died. [[Applause]] What is not clear to us, Mr. Feijóo, is why, with more ambulances in the Ten, there have been no more ambulances for ten years, despite the fact that more resources are known and that they have been claiming for years that there is a medical ambulance. Can it really be so insensitive to leave this parliamentary session without compromising that this matter will already be resolved in the district of Ten? Please, Mr. Feijóo, for once leave the cold statistics, for once leave their coldness as president and compromise on something and give them solutions to the problems that people in this country have. Because it seems that whoever doesn't know what's going on in health care is you or wants to make us look like fools to most of the population. Look, CHUAC complaints for the TAC of oncotoxic patients pending. A carballer also complains of the delay of oncologic TACs in the Materno. The first TAC for a consultation was requested in May; they gave it to him at the end of July; he arrived at the consultation and nothing; they gave him another at the end of August; neither did they. We have more data. We also see how we have figures of far greater eventuality than you recognize, and even the Board of Auditors itself, Mr. Feijóo, has left him as a liar, because you're saying that there's 88% stability in Sergas and the Board of Auditors reduces him to 66%. Who's lying, Mr. Feijóo? You or the Board of Auditors? But look, it's a lie that the Greeks and the Greeks are worth more of their health. Do you know what that barometer says about the ministry you mean? That the Greeks and the Greeks are the third parties who value their public health the worst; that's what the barometer says. And we've recently met an inquiry that did a media outlet in this country that says, "Most of the Greeks see worse Greek health than four years ago." This is what's happening in public health...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u33	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u34	...and this is what the Greeks and the Greeks think. We bring you concrete proposals, Mr Feijóo: more resources for primary care, because how can you continue to deny that there is a hole of EUR 2 billion in cuts and that primary care today has EUR 142 million less? How can you continue to deny that there are five thousand vacancies in Sergas that do not convene? How can you continue to deny that there is a need to rescue the health of the Vigo area from the hands of privatization? Of course, Mr. Feijóo, if not rectified, the Greeks and the Greeks...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u35	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u36	...they'll correct you in the polls as soon as the election is called.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u38	You continue to use public health to desecrate your professionals and to make a false demagogy of cuts and deaths; there you and your conscience, Mrs. Pontón; there you and your conscience. You make constant manipulation in this House and in the matter of health in a specific way. That's right, then you suggest that what you have to do is that the new Government of Spain has to rectify the Supreme Court's judgment; that's right. You are a Democrat, Mrs. Pontón, a Democrat with an improper demagogy of a 21st century parliamentarian. Manipulate to statistics. He says that we have a worse health assessment and it turns out that we have it better on any parameter than when you supported the "yes" to support the bipartisan government permanently. You spent 500 million euros less on health than we did. You had 2,700 professionals less in public health than we did. You didn't invest in hospitals and there was a bathroom for every three triple rooms in Ourense. You, gentlemen, looked elsewhere every time there was a problem in the country's public hospitals. And now I come here to teach lessons about the defense of public health, Mrs. Pontón? Look, Mrs. Pontón, with all due respect, we have just -- I insist -- to bid a new contract, but not now, but in April, and that new contract is 64% more, and I repeat: there have never been so many ambulances in Galicia as now, never, ever, Your Honor. Eight more advanced life support ambulances, with nursing, in the Coruña, in Vigo, in Pontevedra and Santiago, in Monforte and in the district of Salnes; an ambulance with basic support in Carballino; an increase of a 24-hour ambulance in the Courel and the Cebreiro. Your Honor, I have to give you some bad news: there will be a new ambulance in the Ten, located in Lalin. I'm sure it's bad news for you, Your Honor, but it's certainly good news for the Ten's people. [[Applause]] Yes, Your Honor, this has been on trial since September. So at least you should be informed, documented, and not come here to play with the families and with the pain of the families. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Pontón, we should be proud of the health system, even though we don't get anywhere, in every village and every mile of the country. But, Mrs. Pontón, can you guarantee the 30,000 nuclei of population a real-time ambulance every minute?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u39	Mrs. Prado, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u40	If you don't know how many nuclei of population we have the BNG, how will you rule the country, Your Honor? [[Laughter]] With 107 assistance ambulances, 16 advanced life support ambulances, 2 conventional ambulances, 2 helicopters and 1 coordination centre. Is there any 061 better in the history of the Autonomous Community than now? Do you know how many work in 061? They work 132 doctors, 101 nurses, non-health personnel 43. Do you know how much this means, the more transport companies, the more the telephone station? He supposes 1,372 people working 24 hours 365 days of the year to three shifts, Your Honor. Can you really continue to play with health care and with 061? [[Applause]] Your Honor, in the wrestling struggle of Angrois and the shot night of the Marisquino, there was 061. There's nothing to say, isn't there, Mrs. Pontón? No, no, no, no. Why? You wanted it to go wrong on the 061, didn't you? [[Murmurs.]] See, Mrs Pontón, in the last satisfaction survey of 061, 90.3% of the Greeks over 100 positively rated 061. Clearly, 90% of the Greeks don't agree with you. To the family of Jesus...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u41	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u42	...you answer the right explanation that we're going to give you — no doubt about it — but I can't guarantee what you ask me to do here, just why? Because what you're asking me for is a lying treat. And I can't, in defense of the 061 professionals and in defense of the public health system, come here to tell lies to the professionals, not even to a family with pain. No, don't count on me for this, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u43	Thank you. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u44	If we increase 60% of the ambulance contract...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u45	Silence! Finish, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u46	...if we have more ambulances than ever in our history, I don't think it's from receiving what you come to say here, but — straight away — beyond you and your conscience.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u47	Thank you, President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Gonzalo Caballero Míguez, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the actions planned by the Government of Galicia in order to be able to sit in the political centrality to which he refers in his speeches
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u48	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Feijóo, your speeches in this Parliamentary House are a continuance proportional to its falsity, a continuance proportional to the lack of realism when you answer the different questions of this opposition and lack of respect for the will and dimension of this opposition by bringing here the problems of Galicia. Look, Mr Feijóo, 60.01 percent of the Welsh and Welsh people want a change of government today in front of the Galician Union. 73.4% of people between the ages of 18 and 29 in Galicia, the younger people, the 73% want a new government in front of the Galician Union. And that is, Mr. Feijóo, because you, who so much speaks of political centrality, are a ruler who is living in the official car on the edge of this country's problems, who, when you respond to this electoral campaign strategy with that bluntness and lack of reality, speaking of industry or speaking of the reality of health policy, is a ruler who is not sensitive to the reality of a country that has many difficulties. And of course we tell him with all constancy. [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Feijóo, a few days ago, you just died a person without an ambulance at Dozon and you come here to make a speech justifying that ambulances are occupied with reality of that dimension; that is, you're telling the Galicians and the Greeks that if there's no doctor in a CAP or if there's no ambulance, it's because they're busy. And you have no solution to give to the Greeks and to the Greeks, who want a public health of the 21st century, an efficient response from health policy. He still hasn't rectified his mayor of Sanxenxo, who said an exabrupt yesterday, a lack of respect for thousands and thousands of Greeks, who know that Greek health isn't going well. And as much as he repeats his lies don't come into reality in the country, because we all live in real Galicia while you're still living, after twenty-five years, in Galicia's official car. And I mean, Mr. Feijóo, that centrality is to solve the country's problems, centrality is to address the country's problems, also in industrial policy, where you have a failure of absolute realism. Look, Mr Feijóo, comes and repeats continuously that the Alcoa-San Cibrao factory represents 30% of the GDP of the province of Lugo; it still said this Sunday, in a real way. It doesn't have the slightest rigour in the country's economic reality. Ask Mr. Puy how much he represents; he doesn't represent, Mr. Feijóo, that number. [[Murmurs.]] The problem, Mr. Feijóo, is that you, as far as you can see, are saying that you can't distinguish between 4% of GDP and 30%. And with that reality, he makes a phony speech. And I also want to talk to you about political centrality, about the centrality you've lost since you applauded the turn-out by the People's Party. I know they don't like it. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Feijóo, there's Abascal in Vigo tomorrow. Break the pacts against the right. Admit it, Mr. Feijó...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u50	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u51	...that the People's Party has launched a strategy of ultra-conservative rotation in which you are very comfortable, an ultra-right that leads the People's Party and presents itself to the upcoming elections. You guys here talk about everything you want and think we need to follow the script they want to present to us. When you talk about centrality in Galicia, you left the centrality, because you don't rule by responding to the country's problems, and you left the centrality, because you're thrown out on the right with the People's Party pacts with Vox. Thank you very much, Mr. Feijó.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u52	Thank you, Mr. Knight. The President's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Very good, Mr. Knight. My continuance is inversely proportional to its incontinence. [[Applause]] Mr. Knight, as is logical, we don't know what you're talking about here, as usual, because usually no one knows what you're talking about. That makes a lot of noise, it talks in a very solemn way. You're here to talk about polls and say 60 percent don't know how much I don't know. What survey do you refer to, Your Honor? A ten-year survey? The voice poll in Galicia? The voice voice of Galicia reads it a little while ago. It turns out the People's Party is missing two seats for most absolutes. It's a nightmare, no doubt, survey. [[Murmurs.]] You never know or will know what most is. Imagine knowing what the absolute majority is. That would be surprising, wouldn't it, Mr. Knight? But we're going to keep working and, well, actually, focusing on the country's problems. How do we focus on the country's problems? For if Galicia does not stop by the paralysis and the blockade of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, that Galicia has a united government and not a series of electoral coalitions that each one goes on its own, being able to rule without falling into populist temptations or breakaways, that is, to rule without taking away our sleep and being able to sleep quietly, and to focus on forming a government that has citizens as its objective. I understand that for you this is science fiction. Look, you don't understand centrality. Why? Because they just don't have a project for the country. And he comes here to give his rally; he's got five now. We can follow on, every two months you can give a rally to fourteen people, who are your Members and Members. The rest of the House is not very interested in knowing what their proposals are. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, as there is no project, the Socialist Party's electoral program has a goal, let's say, a slogan: to get the Feijóo out of Galicia. And for that, well, they don't care. You went to rule with Podemos, with the Republican Left, with Junts for Catalunya, with Bildu; exactly, with whom did they rule in Madrid? You just called, Mr. Sánchez said: Mr. Tora is the Spanish Le Pen. And now it turns out that you rule in forty-three municipalities in Catalonia with the Spanish Le Pen, and the Barcelona Deputy with the Spanish Le Pen, Mr. Torra. Gentlemen, the problem you have is that you don't have any credibility. Now they turn to the flag of Spain in the elections for November and protect the independenceists in Catalonia. You take advantage of the government to campaign the election, the coup de cédre, and Brussels tells them that you're going to divert three times into the public deficit. You take the money from the autonomous communities and fund their social Fridays and, well, they're going to take more or less. Look, Mr. Knight, centrality is not to rule with Bildu. Centrality is to let you rule the most voted list in Navarre and not rule with Bildu. Centrality is not to rule in forty-three municipalities and in the Barcelona Deputy with the Republican Left of Catalonia, with the CUP and with Junts for Catalonia. That's centralizing. Mr. Caballero, do you condemn the declaration of self-determination that you just made yesterday, again, your government partners in Catalonia? Yes or no? Mr. Caballero, can you believe us in the House that the Socialist Party is going to break all the coalitions of government in forty-three municipalities and in the Barcelona Deputy with Junts for Catalunya, the Republican Left of Catalonia and the CUP? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u54	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u55	Mr. Knight, with all due respect, those who rule with sovereignists, those who rule with populists, those who rule with independentists cannot give any lesson of centrality in Galicia. The center in Galicia, the center in Galicia, the problems of Galicia, is on these benches, Your Honor. That's why Galicia gave us that center, the center of most votes to continue ruling. Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u56	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Feijóo, the election results are in sight, you see what connection you have with the dimension of urban Galicia, in how many cities you rule today in Galicia. And when they talk about pacts, Mr. Feijóo, of course I like you to present your political letters here clearly. Because you're coming out like a Gallardon that looks very modern, but like Gallardon, you represent the reactionary right in Spain and Galicia. And I mean, Mr. Feijó, because, when you ask who you're going to rule with, I mean who you're going to rule with. Because, where the numbers go, you always rule with Vox. Vox is the main ally of the People's Party of Marriage. Vox is also the ally of the People's Party of Galicia, of Feijóo, who applauded the agreements with Vox when Vox gave the presidency in Andalusia to the People's Party. Of course we have to consider it clearly. And you come here to suggest that the Socialist Party governs with independentists. But, Mr. Feijóo, if all Spain knows that the Socialist Party did not deal with independenceists, and held a political position in Spain to be loyal to a government to implement 155 and now to defend the constitutional regime, and that's why there are elections, because there was no agreement with the independenceists. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, you, Mr. Feijóo, what you should do is apologize to the citizenry, because the People's Party for many months was talking about the fact that in Spain there would be a government of Frankenstein, that the Socialist Party would deal with anyone for having the government and their lies stood in front of reality as the falsehood it defends. Mr. Feijóo, of course we do not defend the right to self-determination, because we believe in the sovereignty of all citizenship in Spain and the Government in Spain is the Government that demonstrates that from the left we occupy political centrality, in the face of a turn towards the ultra-right of the People's Party. Mr. Feijó, I'll tell you again: you tell us who we're going to rule with. Of course, the progressive left in Galicia represents a much better option than that People's Party that's going to deal with Vox where he's told. And tomorrow you will have in Galicia, in Vigo, your political ally, the leader of the Vox ultraright, which gives you the vows to rule where you need them and where you will try to go when you don't have an absolute majority, whether or not candidate, to achieve our governments. That's what you reflect in your answer. Will you tell him, Mr. Feijóo, tomorrow, to the leader of the People's Party who breaks all agreements with Vox to be in a centered policy or is he still the accomplice of that turn towards the ultra-right of the People's Party? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u58	Thank you, Mr. Knight. [[Murmurs.]] Close the question, President of the Board, which is the answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u59	Look, Your Honor, if you were listening carefully to what Vox says, I don't think you dare to say the merely frivolities you used to. If there's any politician in Spain who's insulted by Vox directly, it's me. According to Vox, I'm a progress nationalist; according to BNG, I'm an irredeemable centralist. [[Laughter]] Do you see how the extremes are not right, neither Vox nor BNG? We're a focused party, Your Honor, a party focused on Galician problems, gentlemen. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] You already confuse the polls, the election results, you have a mental cocoa... we win in the Coruña, we win in Ferrol, we win in Lugo, and they don't let us rule, and it turns out we've lost. [[Laughter]] We've won three provincial deputies and they don't want to let us rule, and it turns out we've lost. [[Murmurs.]] When you win the PP, you lose the PP, and when you win the PSOE and when you lose the PSOE, you win the PSOE. This is an impromptu nonsense. That's right, uh, they don't rule with any nationalist parties. But look, I don't have time, it's forty-three. Do you think it starts at the beginning? For "b", Badalona. Polo "c", Castelldefels, Calella, Cassà de la Selva, Cervera, Cuni, Les Franccheses del Vallès, Despite, Vilafranca del Penedès, Vila-seca, Viladecavalls, El Pont de Suert, Sant Cugat del Vallès, Abrera, Altafulla, Gavà, Castell-Platja d'Aro, Caldes d'Strac. And end up in the "t": Snail. Forty-three municipalities ruling with the independentists, and not ruling with the independentists. [[Murmurs.]] But, Mr. Knight, you are a political phenomenon, you must recognize it. Mr. Knight, look, Your Honor, I know you laugh at everything. [[Applause]] He laughed at all the workers in the country. I just made your partner a proposal about Alcoa; you don't even talk about it. We just put forward a proposal so we can go to the elections by taking out the five thousand jobs of the electro-intensive companies and the Alcoa jobs. Do you agree to concreteize in the Socialist Party's electoral programme a proposal that solves and guarantees five thousand jobs of electrointensive companies and Alcoa? Yes or no, Mr. Knight? You're going to enter your election program? Yes or no? Are we going to make a deal for these days with the Minister of Industry, with the Minister of Transition or who you want? Yes or no, Mr. Knight? This is what matters to the country, no matter how you advertise other political parties by announcing your rally, Your Honor. [[Applause]] I understand perfectly well that it is very good for you to have Vox take a lot of votes in Galicia, so you will try to remain the first political force. That's why he's making a rally in the Galician Parliament that seems to be going to be Vox. The only thing missing in that rally is you, Your Honor, to complete exactly the proposal. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, the political centrality, Mr. Caballero, can't be confused with centralism. You really look like a speaker in bluetooth from Ferraz Street; you say the same. [[Murmurs.]] What to do in Alcoa? Whatever the deputy minister tells you. What to do with the thermals? To blame Feijóo. What to do in Ence? To say that Feijóo is a barbarian and does not want to protect the environment. But do you have any concrete proposals? Do you really think your goal is to be helpful to the Government of Spain and not helpful to the workers of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u60	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u61	I'm a servant to the workers of Galicia and I'm no servant to any government in Spain, no matter who the Government of Spain is. [[Applause]] Look, I'm proposing that you at the next control session...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u62	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u63	...you tell me why the BNG says the Supreme Court must be dismissed, and you continue to rule with them. And you tell me why Anova and the BNG, here in Santiago, say there are political prisoners in Spanish prisons and that we have to pass an amnesty law, and continue to rule with them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u64	End, end, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u65	Mr. Knight, the problem with the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party is that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u66	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u67	...was never so helpful to the interests of Madrid and its nationalist and sovereign partners in Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u68	Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Pontón, why do you want the word? Quiet, quiet, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u69	Mr President, on the basis of Article 76, because it is obvious, first, that... If I can talk, I don't know. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u70	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u71	Well, on the basis of Article 76, because it is clear that the President of the Board in his reply, when we had no right to answer, he made some assessments which I think are very serious, which must be rectified and which must be withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions, if he doesn't correct them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u72	I didn't notice that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u73	I mean, when he said -- if he didn't notice it, I'll make a comment to him -- that the BNG wanted it to work badly at 061 in tragedies like that of English is a real nonsense and a real barbarity. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u75	In politics, Mr. Feijóo, it's not worth everything. In politics, Mr. Feijóo, it's not worth everything.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u76	Silence, silence, silence, silence, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u77	And the only thing that proves is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u78	Silence! That's it. Quiet, quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u79	...a bad conscience. I think it's a real purpose. And, of course, Mr. Feijó...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u80	Mrs. Pontón, that's a...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u81	And, of course, Mr. Feijóo is a splendid manipulator.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u82	That's it, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u83	But we're not going to be silent in the face of such statements...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u84	That's it, Mrs. Pontón. Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u85	...who degrade this group, who has your opinion on all the issues...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u86	Mrs. Pontón, your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u87	...and that he does not accept that he gives us lessons in democracy who deals with Vox.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u88	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, please. I know how to distinguish and I know... well, please! please!, I'm talking, I'm talking. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I know perfectly well how the debate went, and it doesn't work, it doesn't work. The times are for all the same. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Sánchez, whenever you like, I teach you how your times are and how you teach the times of all spokesmen as well. Yeah, yeah, no, no, look out! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no. On that matter, there was no rush to be put on the table now, none. We continue with the motions. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the supply of business soil and the establishment and establishment of companies in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u89	Amendments to the Joint Left and Joint Parliamentary Group have been tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u90	Wait till there's some quietness, and, as we're not in a hurry, because it's a continuous session today, we can... calm down, calm down, hope it's quiet here. Please ask for some calm so that Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo can intervene. Quiet, I mean, quiet, there's no noise in the area. You have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u91	Thank you, Mr. President. It's a shame that many of the Members of Parliament and the people who make up the Government are not left to listen to some of our speeches as well. We've been in this tenth legislation for three years — Mrs. Paula Prado, if you'd like to leave, as the president warns. Ah, well, three years of stories from the German Government. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Today I'm going to break down Galicia's business land story, a story more than we've been used to by the Government of the People's Party. See, in 2016, the Economics Council put Doing Bussines Galicia into operation. In March 2017 they announced the birth of the Galician Solo Business Observatory. In August 2017 the IGVS commissioned the Galicia-Xestur Soil Management Society, S.A., to carry out the work for the launch and dissemination of the Galicia Business Soil Observatory. In October 2017 they approved the Law on the Promotion of Entrepreneurship Initiatives in Galicia, with the aim of promoting the implementation of business initiatives in Galicia that require the use of business soil, among which principles is to streamline the supply of business soil and facilitate access to the soil of business initiatives that require it; in its Article 12 also establishes the creation of the Galicia Business Land Census. In October 2017 the Galician Union and Fegamp signed an action protocol to encourage the establishment and establishment of companies in Galicia through the creation of the Galician Doing Business Councils initiative. So in February of this year, that is, twenty-four months after publishing the birth of the Observatory and approving the Entrepreneurship Act, they announce that the Board prepares a census to find out how much industrial soil is available in Galicia. In September of this year, that is, a month ago, and thirty months after the announcement, the Government of Greece, to a question put by the socialists, answers us that the Business Solo Observatory is in the process of being set up and that the Council of June 23, 2019 authorized the processing of the preliminary draft decree so that the Galicia Business Solo Census will be regulated, which aims to know the business soil that is really available in our community and the degree of occupation of business areas, and which, in addition, has as its object an instrument of evaluation, planning and updating of business soil needs. That is, during a whole legislative term the Galician People's Party Meeting of Mr. Núñez Feijóo announces to us the birth, tells us what the functions are going to be, informs us of their organizational dependence, approves a law containing the announcement, but the reality is that they haven't done anything, except to keep the permanent story they're making. Thus, while the Galician Union is busy with what it does, it obliges the municipalities that want to join the Doing Business Galicia initiative, who want to have a positive discrimination by 20% on the scoreboard in certain subsidies that are very important for the municipalities, who want to integrate their industrial soil into the Galician Solo Business Observatory and who want to enter the territorial brand that will act as a collaboration platform to reduce administrative burdens to carry out immediate reforms. In other words, the municipalities have to apply administrative simplification and speeding up procedures; the municipalities have to modify the legal regime for their opening licenses and municipal works licenses; the municipalities have to modify their tax regime for three years, with subsidies that can reach up to 95% of IBI, IAE and ICIO; the municipalities have to eliminate fees for the provision of urban or equivalent services and for the opening up of establishments, and the municipalities have to set competitive prices on the corporate plots by establishing bonuses. Since then, Together counts while forcing the municipalities to make accounts. In its first subparagraph, the Law on the Promotion of Entrepreneurship Initiatives in Galicia itself, in its explanatory statement, recalls that the Autonomous Community of Galicia has, in Article 30 of its Autonomy Statute, assigned exclusive competence to the promotion and planning of economic activity in our community. And then he adds that in the exercise of this exclusive competence, the Council of Galicia expresses its concern about the promotion of the implementation in the Greek territory of business initiatives, without which economic development is not possible, the growth of occupation is not possible and the growth of quality employment is not possible. We socialists fully agree with these statements contained in the motivation of the law, but we want to remind the Galician Union that only advertisements do not transform a country, that only advertisements do not plan the challenges of the future that we have to address as a country. [[Applause]] So, look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, while the German Government continues to tell us stories and does not exercise its powers, the number of societies that are formed in Galicia has fallen in an alarming manner since 2016. In 2016 they were formed in Galicia 4,571 companies, and in 2018 they were constituted 4,062; that is, in 2018 they constituted 509 companies less in Galicia. The activity in Galicia of industrial enterprises based in other autonomous communities, from 2016 to 2017 increased by 1.4 points in net turnover, while the activity in other autonomous communities of industrial enterprises based in Galicia decreased by 1.2 points in net turnover. Ladies and gentlemen, the ten years of the Government of Nuñez Feijóo in Galicia, were the ten years of industrial barbecue in our country. And that absence of planning sucks us into a crusader reality, which is the industrial crisis that we are suffering today in our community. We have 97,000 inhabitants; we have 24,000 people under 40 years of age. Those employed in the industry in the second quarter of 2019, compared to the second quarter of the year 2009................................................................................................................ We have to have the industrial production index, on the average of the year in Galicia, having the second worst evolution of all autonomous communities, with a negative annual rate of 6.2, while for the state as a whole it grows by 0.4. The volume exported in this first half of 2019, over the same period of 2018, tells us that Galicia has fallen by 10%, while for the state as a whole it has increased by 1.7%. And as long as they follow the stories, they don't even come out of the accounts of the budget execution of the Galician Union to prove what they say but they really don't. In programme 741A, support for modernization and internationalisation, from 2016 to 2018, in the initial appropriations for this heading were EUR 305 million, but of these EUR 305 million leave 130 million unimplemented. They leave without running 130 million euros! In investments in R & D+i, in heading 561A, the German Plan of Research, Development and Technological Innovation, leaves unimplemented in this legislation 93.6 million out of 258 million euros budgeted for research, development and innovation. In addition, in Galicia's 2015-2020 Strategic Plan itself, the challenge 3 tells us that we need to double R & D spending and raise 40% of GDP to export levels. The volume actually invested by IGVS in industrial soil in 2016 was around EUR 42 million; in 2017 it was EUR 10 million; and in 2018 it was EUR 870,000; that is, 98% less invested by IGVS than it was invested in 2016. The management of the public company Management of the grounds of Galicia, Xestur S.A., cannot be considered satisfactory either, since the turnover on sale of parcels in business soil, in 2017 represented 27 million euros, and in 2018, 15.7; that is, 42% less than in 2017, when the target for this year 2018, according to the government's own budgetary memory, was to reach 22.6 million euros.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u92	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u93	I'm done, Mr. President. Investments were also very much below forecast. Thus, in 2018, of the 17.5 million euros that was planned to be executed, they only executed 9.6 million euros; that is, 45% under the initial credit.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u95	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u96	Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. Within these wonderful surveys that give us every Wednesday full-length Mr. Feijóo, I imagine you will also have some of these for what is the policy of business soil and business parks. When people visit the business parks of their village and see them empty or semi-vacated, it's wrong to see it, because I'm sure Mr. Feijó will have an inquiry that says there's no place to put companies, it's all full! We agree with the vast majority of the proposals made by the Socialist Group in its motion. We have a point on point 7 that I'll tell you later. But what is being considered in the non-law proposal is to improve what is already being done and in some cases to complete things that are not being done, because the entire management of industrial soil has a 20th century industrial soil policy, because it's optimistic. The reality is that industrial soil policies no longer come from physical infrastructure, but from other things in all developed countries. Business decision-making is no longer about square meters, it's about other things. So in our amendment, we focus on matters that companies essentially demand to decide on the implementation in one area or another. So we're considering the specialization of business parks, and for that we need to develop socio-economic studies of physical and digital communications on the territories where each of the parks is located, to determine what would be their proper specialization, both productive and services and industry, which is intended to promote in the area. You can't promote all industrial parks equal, say square meters, road communications etc. No, the future is the specialization of parks. Then, the most important thing companies are looking for to make the implementation decision is vocational training in the area where they want to be implemented. That's why we need to develop the professional training cycles that are most suited to the specific priority specialization of each park in the areas around it. Then communicate and advertise the competitive advantages of the labour force in the areas of the business parks. We need to have studies of the already available professional profiles in those areas where parks are located, in order to be able to inform companies of the advantages of installing themselves in the park. This is also another decisive element of a company that wants to install and produce efficiently its initiative in a particular area. So is sustainability. We must greatly increase the sustainability of existing industrial parks, and for that we must develop a plan of improvement in all environmental aspects, because this is also increasingly a priority for implementing decisions for companies with corporate social responsibility in this area, which are becoming increasingly important. In addition to physical communications, which we can say are acceptable, and you wouldn't have to spend much more on them, that is to be looked at primarily in digital communications. Because many of the new companies that are going to be installed don't need to transport large volumes of goods, which they need to transport is a large volume of data. So, in that sense, priority must be given to the incentives and deployment plans of the 5G network to those parks that most need this technology in order to be able to deploy factories, logistics and all the rest of 4.0 activities. As you will know, 5G is essential for the Internet of Things, it is essential to actually develop 4.0 in many factories. In the broadband network the physical network does not reach, because most of the equipment connected to the logistics plant and the entire industrial development of these new factories is in motion on many occasions, so you have to have a 5G wireless network. And then one thing we've been asking for three years, I think it was my first intervention in this Parliament, which is the centralization and coordination of all the supply in Galicia. Start the procedures for the Ministry of Development to transfer all industrial parks that have in Galicia through the Atlantic Business Land, absorb them in the Gestur and make a fully integrated offer. Finally, the proposal we wanted to amend from point 7. It can't be that when they talk about Vulcan, you just talk about Galician Union. We think the Vigo Town Hall and the State Government will have something to say. Don't do the same thing that we're listening to all the time: to urge the others what we ourselves are not thinking of doing. On Vulcan lands you have much to say also the Vigo Town Hall, you have much to say the Government of the State through State Ports. So they accept that change and urge the administrations ruled by you so that Vulcan lands can't change their use. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u98	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Joint Left Group, Mrs. Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u99	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. From the Joint Left Group we are going to support the Socialist Party's proposal, although it aims at several measures aimed at the country's industrial and business reactivation, many of which are as basic as the need to publish information; requests that one thinks it is not necessary to bring here, but that the Government's incompetence requires to request. And yet, as you know, we have tabled an amendment which, in our opinion, points to two complementary and fundamental issues when we talk about business soil, such as the performance of the Administration in the face of the very high price problem of business soil, or which does not meet the requirements that companies need, as well as the necessary linkage of business aid to certain criteria that prevent companies from covering the aid and then leaving the workers and workers at their own expense. This is a fundamental issue, because, as Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo explained, Greek societies are coming down, data is negative. As we've seen in recent months, Galicia is experiencing an industrial crisis, a moment of industrial crisis caused by closures and relocations; a crisis that has already left after it 22,500 jobs without the Government of Feijóo giving any warning symptoms. Clearly, the critical situation of industry is polyhedronic, and as such demands complex responses that cater to all focussed. Today, the Socialist Group's proposal brings us to talk about the situation of business soil, a subject on which we have already warned on numerous occasions that it had direct implications for the relocation of companies located in Galicia to other countries or other territories of the State; a phenomenon exacerbated during the Feijóo decade to which the Greek Government is not responding properly. Estimates made on this relocation process warned that over the last decade more than 300 companies in Galicia would have moved to northern Portugal, among which we can point to the very recent case of Poligal and so many recent cases in which the Government of Greece has done absolutely nothing. Many other worrying cases of relocation of Galician companies, or located in Galicia, were: Roypasa, Pavestone, Valver, Marsan, Rodman... and a long et cetera. In particular, relocations affected the automotive industry and its assistants, which are already very close to Portugal, in particular many PSA providers. The measures driven by the German Government, which are almost exclusively centered on the supply of industrial soil and the lower price of the square metre, are obviously not enough, because the problem continues. They're not because the indentation doesn't stop and because it's enough to take a walk through many of the business parks in this country to see real concrete weeds where the only thing that grows is palm lead, an invasive vegetation that grows in abandonment. And about this, the Government had to act. This doesn't just happen by chance, nor does it just go through the enormous competition that the Portuguese business field exerts. No, it's just that the German Government, in addition to leaving out of execution crucial games year after year, in addition to abandoning the Welsh industry to its fate, has dedicated itself to cutting out specific resources for the promotion of soil for economic activities. The 531A Programme, which is dedicated precisely to this, for the promotion of soil for economic activities, was EUR 20,760.000 in 2009; in 2019, EUR 17,887.559, the download was already tremendous; but this year that supposed wonderful budget exercise leaves the start of EUR 3,624,255, i.e. a fall in real terms of more than 85%. Of these numbers, therefore, in our amendment we first request the recovery of the budgetary departure we had for the promotion of soil and for economic activities in 2009 — we understand that it is the least to put sufficient resources on the table. And secondly, we are proposing to link business soil aid to commitments by companies relating to the maintenance of employment and the working conditions of workers and workers. From the Joint Left Group we demand the need for decisive action by the Economic, Employment and Industry Council on this matter. To put anyone competent to the fear of the Korean industry to define a true industrial policy that we are currently lacking. In that sense, public aid is of course a fundamental tool that cannot be understood as gifts to friends, as it is often used by the Government of Greece, but a fundamental economic tool to guarantee the future, employment and rights of the country. That's why we understand that the aid must be conditioned. For our own sake, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u101	Thank you, President. Good morning. These days I was reading the budgets of the board, and the truth is, I was worried when I got to the chapter of the one who put it, "Neboa in Pedrafita, the isolated continent." And this isn't a HBO series headline, it's not the title of a novel, it's the title of a Galician board document. [[Laughter]] It turns out there's fog in Pedrafita, the isolated continent. The truth is that Galician Union was melted when they had to write this document. We are without lights, gentlemen of the People's Party. No lights, no long or short. Here's what's going on, in any case, is the emergency lights, the alarm lights, in the industrial sector. Because we're seeing what's going on in the country, from The Navy to Vigo and even Ourense, passing through Ferrolterra, through the Coruña, through the Coast of Death, which are turning the country into a real park, into an industrial field with more than 6,000 jobs at risk, and it seems that the thing doesn't go with you, the Union has nothing to do with it! There's fog in Pedrafita, that's the conclusion of Galician Union. The problem is not that new jobs are not created anymore, the problem is that thousands of jobs are being destroyed in the industry and in other sectors, and there is fog in Pedrafita! We are faced with a problem, a dramatic problem of national emergency, by the weight loss of industry in GDP... I warned the ESC, in the 2018 report, that the goal was to reach 20% of the weight of industry in GDP, and it turns out that we are going in the opposite direction, we have already fallen to 16%. [[Murmurs.]] We've lost positions as well as northern Portugal, which is winning the battle for us, they're winning the game for us. [[Pause.]] They have a 28 percent share of industrial employment compared to 17.4% of Galicia, 11 points more. Or the problem of Galicia's loss of competitiveness within the regions of the European Union, where we came down from heading 181 to 197. We're in the tail truck. Because we're in the queue truck as well as in the field of innovation, which is another key element for changing conditions and boosting economic activity in the industrial sector as well. And there are a number of factors that are decisive in the area of economic policy and industrial policy. One of them is indeed the supply of business soil and the price of business soil; also communications, both material and intangible. And it turns out that there's also winning us the game north of Portugal, with a massive shift, with a relocation of companies to that region. Because we also have paralysed projects that are strategic in soil matter, as Plisán can be; paralysed or with a desperate slowness for companies, as it happens with the dry port of Monforte. Another element is the price of energy. You seem to have just found out that the price of energy is a determining factor for settlement or business permanence. They have been systematically voting against the proposals made by BNG in this area. And they voted against the Welsh electric tariff, which would also be a determining factor in modifying the conditions... [[Murmurs.]] Another element is taxation. Do you know what the statistics say? Galicia among low-competitive tax communities. Another element is industrial policy itself. And here the competition is from the German Government. We'd have to say better the incompetence is from the German Government, and it's enough to see the Xestur figures. We don't agree, we don't think the solution is to pass the Xestur to the Industry Council, because that's not the solution. The solution is that there is a government that governs, that executes budgets, and does not take us to ridiculous amounts as they have now done, precisely with the budget of Xestur, which drops it from 17 million to 3.6 million by 2020. That's his policy. Well, I'm not surprised, if they only executed EUR 870,000 in 2018, I'm not surprised they're lowering the budgets! The one in the observatory is already for note, because the PSOE proposal asks the observatory to make a series of reports and a series of evaluations. But the observatory does not exist! The observatory announced to him counsellor Ethel Vázquez, who was removed from the field of soil and housing in 2017, in March, and is still awaiting creation. So how are we going to ask him to do the report if they haven't created it yet? The first thing they had to do is create it and then we'd talk about it. But with this rate of execution, we don't see it anywhere. So what we ask of them is that they stop blaming others, that they stop doing what they know to do so well, that is to make opposition. To oppose the municipalities, to oppose the deputies, to oppose the opposition groups...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u102	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u103	...and once and for all rule, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u104	Thank you, Mr Bará. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Castilian.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mr. President. Mr. Bará, because you're the last one who just spoke: the fog - I would say your spokesman - kill. And the neighbors and neighbors of Pedrafita would never mock what you mocked, fog and investments to improve your quality of life! [[Applause]] That's what you made fun of. [[Applause]] But that's the difference, that's the difference between them. Some people get drunk about the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks, and others work to solve them. [[Murmurs.]] And the Government... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] By the way, Mrs. Rumbo, by the way, I would like to thank Mr. Caballero for his presence because he's beating the record of permanence in this room full of Mr. Beiras, I think he's around. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] His minute I think he's one of the most expensive of all the Greeks and gales, or one of the best paid. [[Applause]] The government is ruling and is going to rule. [[Applause]] He's working. [[Applause]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, the theater! [[Laughter]] The theater on the benches, which is much better! [[Laughter]] Let's talk...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u106	On the subject.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u107	...from the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u108	Let's get to the point. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet. On the subject.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u109	Let's talk... no, if I just give an answer to what was said here, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u110	On the subject!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u111	Let's start with point 7, of what Mr. Casal has said, of point 7 of his motion. Thank you, Mrs. Vilán, for being kind to you. You don't want to listen, do you? Because it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter, of course! To urge the Board to make all the necessary actions so that no changes can be made to the uses of Vulcan lands, which are under concession regime. [[Murmurs.]] I repeat, on a concession plan. Go snow in Vigo! I mean, the land on concession plans, whose property are they? State! Right? Who rules in the State? [[Murmurs.]] Or who is he and makes him rule in the state? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Who can do, propose and initiate a land use modification file? [[Murmurs.]] The owner or municipality, according to their planning instruments. Home!, the board may, too, if it is a matter of general interest, applying the law, but at first, the owner or the council. And it turns out you're urging Together. It's okay. I think it's good that the socialists are urging the board. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It gives me the feeling you're afraid to urge Mr. Chief Knight. So what do they do? They come and urge the Board to urge Mr. Chief Knight, the Vigo Town Hall, and to urge the state in turn. It gives me the feeling they're afraid of... but if they're so good-looking, why don't the nephew go straight to the uncle and finish everything? Are they in the family so bad, Mrs. Rumbo? [[Protests.]] Socialist gentlemen, are they bad in the family...?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u112	Don't get into family trouble, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u113	...I don't think I...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u114	No, but don't get into family trouble. Let's go to the debate!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u115	Mr President, I ask you to read point 7!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u116	But not between family problems. Do we care about family problems? Everyone who solves their own.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u117	So... well, in family problems, I don't want to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u118	Each one solves his own!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u119	...they'll know yours! All right, let's move on. [[Murmurs.]] Point 8. Ask us to pass... what's going on, you have to listen, maybe you can learn something! [[Murmurs.]] Change the business solo dependency. [[Pause.]] I'll tell you how you used the business soil. [[Murmurs.]] We, of course, are very clear that business policy and soil management must develop since the Council, which is already here in the Territory. Because the establishment of a business park is not just for business reasons, there are many more circumstances that affect it. In addition to entrepreneurship factors — as I say — there are others, such as seeking territorial balance, demographic impulse, environmental criteria, etc. If each one had developed his needed soil, imagine what gallimaths there would be! I understand that the socialist and left-wing bench is asking for that. I can understand that, because this is the typical of socialist governments, fractured governments, governments where every councilman — as was the case of the Bipartite, but any other government that has — defends partisan interests that are the fruit of an unstable conglomerate of parties. That's what you guys do. And I'm going to give them an example of what they were doing in industrial soil -- it's important, that we also talked about Xestur here -- it's very important what they did in the Bipartite. Gandaras Business Park, Lugo, 2005. A polygon of what was adopted in 2004 by the sectoralization plan, with the People's Party's Union Government and a council governed by the Socialist Party, where they participated together. It comes in 2005 and they make an amendment to the Sectoral Plan -- Government bipartisan -- and they have distributed skills in industrial soil as follows: industrial soil management, Housing Council, BNG; land management, PSOE consulting; industry, BNG consulting. The property of an important part of the land was the Town Hall of Lugo, PSOE. What are they doing? Proposal from the Town Hall: I deliver a reasonable permut...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u120	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u121	I deliver those lands, and in return they give me some resulting plots. What does Junta do at that time? He says, "No, the Town Hall can't have a single square meter. What do we do? Home, poor! The banks, which are the votres of the money of all the workers, we're going to ask them for a credit, we pay the annuality. We valued over 15 million euros, asked for credit from a bank -- of course, it wasn't a Greek bank -- and paid interest on the money of all the Greeks. And the Town Hall doesn't have a single square meter. That was the policy of the Bipartite.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u122	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Castineira, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u123	It's over, Mr. President. I mean, to the gestures, Mr Bará -- I've said it more than once -- they've been broken, with a debt of 284 million equivalent to more than 3,000 homes. Yes, that public housing park you're asking for, which was left in less than 3,000 homes with the debt of Galician gestures. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u124	Thank you, Mr. Castineira. Author group of the motion, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u125	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, Mr. Castineira, we haven't seen political arrangements here, we've seen politics, I don't know if you understand. [[Applause]] Anyway, I think it's amazing that you're showing it because, really, you see again the inaction of the People's Party Government. You always refer to the Bipartite, the government led by Emilio Pérez Touriño, but forget they've been ruling for ten years, ten years in which they haven't done anything!, absolutely nothing! Tell us stories! [[Applause]] In that they're specialists, telling us stories. Look, I'm going to continue with the data I was giving in my first intervention. I'm going to end up too fast. I've only got one left. Igape's accounts. The stories and the accounts. In the section of transfers and grants granted, it turns out that in 2017 the Igape transfers 15.3 million euros, and in 2018, 11.8; i.e., 3.5 million euros less. In all the data I just gave you, the Galician Union is always betting less; less, no more. The Socialists believe that support for business soil is essential to shape the future of a solvency and new alternatives to Greek industrial policy. We understand that it is necessary and urgent - as it has already been pointed out here too - the specialization of business parks, not letting them continue to grow coughs. Professional training adapted to business demand is absolutely essential. You know that today in Galicia there are many companies that don't find specialized work to be able to incorporate into jobs. Broadband coverage today, after ten years of the People's Party's government, remains a pending subject for all companies in business parks. We also understand and ask that the organic dependence on management of the entire business soil of Galicia, as well as the management of the ground of Galicia, Xestur S.A., should be located in the Economics, Employment and Industry Council. And look, last but not least, Mr. People's Party — I have forgotten his name now — Mr. Castineira — thank you, Mr. President—... Mr. Castineira, the statements of the president of the Port Authority of Vigo—you know it, don't you?—, Enrique López Veiga, who, as far as I know, is from the People's Party, and appointed by the State on a proposal from the Board of Galicia, stated that the Port of Vigo will exercise the right of so much in auction of private lands where a part of the Vulcan factory is located. We'd like to know if the Galician Union is going to carry out all the necessary actions so that the uses of Vulcan lands that are under concession regime cannot be changed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u126	About the amendments. On the amendments, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u127	Look, today we bring a motion that should be supported by all parliamentary groups, in which we request minimums, minimums, and that they begin to fulfil their obligations, that they begin to shape and do everything they promise, that they carry out a legislation, until it seems that it will be put into operation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez. About the fines?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u129	We're going to accept the amendments, both from the Joint Left Group and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u130	Accept. Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u131	Oh, nothing, nothing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u132	Joint Left and Mixed Group. [[Applause]] Before we proceed to the vote, we will greet our guests, students and students of 5th and 6th primary of the Plurilingual Center San Benito de Lérez, in Lérez, Pontevedra, who are accompanied by their teachers. Welcome to Parliament. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u133	We shall now proceed to the vote. Close the doors, please. We start by voting motions, in this case... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me? Yes. What do you want the word for? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Torregrosa, it was you, wasn't it? Do you accept the point vote? Do you accept it? [[Pause.]] [[Assentment.]] So, what points do you want to separate? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, I understand the first point separately and the rest of the points together. They have shown that you accepted the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. [[Murmurs.]] We then vote on the first point of this motion. We vote. Point 1 vote on the G.P. Motion. Joint Left Group, at the initiative of Da Julia Torregrosa Sañudo and da Paula Quinteiro Araújo, on the demand that the Government of Greece should make to the Central Government and the actions it must carry out in the field of employment. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 17 votes against, 38; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. This point of the motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u134	Let us vote on the remaining points of this motion. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. Joint Left Group, at the initiative of Da Julia Torregrosa Sañudo and da Paula Quinteiro Araújo, on the demand to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government and the actions to be carried out in the field of employment, except for point 1 already voted. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. The motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u135	We are now voting on the motion by Mrs Paula Quinteiro, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the action to be taken by the Council in Galicia to improve the current working conditions in the telemarket sector, as well as to prevent the relocation and loss of jobs. I was pending a transaction. Is there a transaction? Don't read it, please. [[Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Do all groups know her? Perfect.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u136	... [...] points 1 to 4 and the others...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u137	Accept the last vote by point. Let's vote for the first four points...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u138	And the rest together.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u139	We vote for the first four points of this motion. We vote. Vote of points 1 to 4 of the G.P. Motion. The Joint Left Group, at the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo, on the actions to be carried out by the Council of Galicia in order to improve the current working conditions in the telemarket sector, as well as to prevent the relocation and loss of jobs. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. These points of the motion were therefore adopted by 70 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u140	Let us now vote on the rest of the points of the motion. We vote. [[There are problems with the electronic voting system.]] Well, let's vote your hand up. Let's vote your hand up. So we were voting the rest of the motion points. G.P. Motion vote. The Joint Left Group, at the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo, on the actions to be taken by the Council of Galicia to improve the current working conditions in the telemarket sector, as well as to prevent the relocation and loss of jobs, except for points 1 to 4, which have already been voted on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u141	Votes in favor? 32. [[Account of votes.]] Vows against? 38. [[Account of votes.]] This motion is therefore rejected. We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Point 5 was accepted as the addition of the Mixed Group and the rest of the amendments were not accepted. Ah! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Then you changed over the march? [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me? I understand you yesterday in the debate that accepted point 5 as... have you changed? [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] All right, we vote for what Mrs Prado says. We vote. Yeah? [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Do you accept a point vote? No, no, no, no. [[Refusal.]] We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia to ensure quality health care for the population ascribed to Povisa. Votes in favor? 19. [[Account of votes.]] Vows against? 38. [[Account of votes.]] Abstentions? 13. [[Account of votes.]] This motion is therefore rejected. Finally, we voted for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo. I had noted here that I accepted the amendments of the Joint Left and Mixed Group. [[Mr. Castineira Broz asks for the word.]] Why do you ask for the word, Mr. Castineira? [[Mr. Castineira Broz utters words that are not perceived.]] Do you accept...? No, no, no, no. [[Refusal.]] We vote as the proposal is. G.P. Motion vote. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the supply of business soil and the establishment and establishment of companies in Galicia. Votes in favor? 32. [[Account of votes.]] Vows against? 38. [[Account of votes.]] This motion is therefore rejected. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The votes were finished. They can open the doors. We move on to the sixth point, which is non-law proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Joint Left Group, at the initiative of Mr José Manuel Lago Peñas, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece and the demand to be made to the Central Government in relation to the deficit in the Social Security accounts since 2011 between income due to contributions and the payment of pensions and other benefits to their office
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u142	There is a self-amendment of the Joint Left Group and an amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u143	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Quinteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u144	You'll look at the president to see if he can open the doors. [[Murmurs.]] I think the microphone works. Quiet, let's get started. The microphone works, time doesn't work, so we'll be warning from the Bureau. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u145	Thank you, President. As I said, we have taken an initiative to talk about the public pension system because pensions make for many families in our country their main livelihood, around 25% of the population in Greece is pensioners, but unfortunately they've been watching for many years as they've been losing purchasing power. In fact, if we take a look at the data, it's very alarming to see that the Greek pensions are the second lowest in the Spanish state. And this reality, which is very alarming, makes many people unable to get at least enough income to meet the most basic needs. In September of this same year, the average Greek pension was 848 euros, which is obviously low, but after which even more worrying realities are hidden, because if we look at the figures, for example, the widow's pensions, we see how the average is 601 euros, or how the average pension of the autonomous scheme is just 597 euros per month. And after these figures there are people who can't afford the minimum conditions: housing, food, bills, because there are many Greek homes that are supported only by this income, which is tremendously low, and not only one person, but several people from the family unit. As in all areas of life, in pensions, gender inequality is very present. In fact, in recent years the gender gap in pensions, far from diminishing, is increasing. We women earn, on average, 45% less than men in pensions, which makes the Greek women perceive 4,000 euros less a year than men, data that are very serious and have political causes, are at the root of the political decisions that have been made in recent years. Because austerity policies are macho policies. Because the reason that women have these tremendously lower pensions than men is because women's employment continues to have much worse wages and, above all, because administrations disagree with all the work of care. That schools are privatized from 0 to 3 years old, that there are not enough squares in day centers and older residences, that do not comply with the Dependency Act, makes it women who have to take care of all this care work free of charge. That's why I say ending the pension gap is ending the gender gap that exists at work and also ending this false division of work called productive and reproductive. As I said, the current pension accounts are condemning the precariousness of many people in our country, and that we are in this situation is also due to the political decisions of recent years. The last two major reforms of the Social Security system, Law 23/2013, of 23 December, regulating the sustainability factor and the rate of revalorization of the pension system, and Law 27/2011, of 1 August, on the updating, adequacy and modernization of the social security system, contain very harmful aspects — they bring pensioners onto the table which are so harmful—that, in our opinion, they urge to derogate. But if we talk about pensions, we also have to talk about employment, so the last two labour reforms are also the direct cause of this situation. Every time we have a debate on the public pension system, every time a debate takes place in the media agenda, the problem is that the framework in which the debate is set is manipulated in an interested way. Suddenly, messages that speak of the inviolability of the public pension system, a purely technical issue, come suddenly, simply because the increase in life expectancy and the lack of contributions are neutral elements, which do not depend on the political will of any government. But this is totally false, because there are two models: with one, it is possible to improve the public pension system; with the other, which is the current one, obviously cannot be improved or maintained. On the one hand, it is found — as I said — who approved these last two major labour reforms, these last two major reforms of the social security system, which have simply taken one more step in the precariousness and privatization of all public services. From the other, we find ourselves the ones that we defend the public, understanding that the only way to defend the public is to defend a model of redistribution of wealth much more just. Because resources do exist, but the problem is that they are getting worse and worse; the poor people are increasingly poorer and the wealthier people accumulate more and more millionaires. That is why, as I said, we did not buy this excessively simplistic scheme, which tells us that the only problem in the public pension system is the prolongation of life and the reduction in the volume of people of working age. That's true, obviously true, but there are alternatives despite having this frame. As I said, if we talk about pensions, we have to talk about jobs, because the labour market in recent years is characterised by a tremendously precarious labour market, with a very important reduction in wages, with the emergence of new figures condemning exploitation, even more, workers, such as false self-employed and temporary employment. Obviously, with this labour market, with workers and poor workers, one cannot finance the so-called welfare state, but there are, as I said, other alternatives, which are improving the labour market, improving wages and ending precariously. Because although it is true that there is a deficit between income due to contributions and payment of pensions and other benefits to their office, this deficit is not due to an excess of expenditure, but to a shortage of income, and that is where we understand that we have to focus. To talk about pensions is actually to talk about much more than just pensions. The bad economic crisis, despite the speeches that have been sold to us lately that we have already come out of the economic crisis and that everything is all right, for the only thing it has served was to increase social inequalities, to accelerate austerity policies, which have been privatizing all public spaces, all public services, and for the working classes to ultimately have much worse living conditions. Here we have to hear as long as the reality of the People's Party is that everything is much better, that we are in an alcyst phase and that everything is fine, that the crisis has already been overcome, but the reality is that more than half a million Greeks and Greeks, more than half a million!, 18% of the population, live below the poverty line. And there's not only this one, which is the most extreme, but people who aren't under the poverty line can hardly reach the end of the month with wages. There are a lot of poor workers and workers, there are a lot of people who have to have two jobs, and even three jobs, to be able to take on a wage to keep the minimum conditions. And, obviously, the lowest job, the worst contributions, the worst wages, obviously, the lowest contributions. As I say, despite what they tell us, the reality is that if we look at the figures, the contribution income in 2013 was much higher than what we have today. We wanted to bring this initiative into line with last day's 16 pensioners' mobilizations, which have taken years to end with their current precariousness. We believe that it is urgent for this Parliament to make a firm commitment to the defence of the public pension system, but a firm commitment, which goes far beyond the declaration of intent. Because, really, if you want to defend the public pension system, what you have to do is a radical change in public policies in recent years. Defending the public pension system is a change of everything that has been done in recent years, is to ban labour reforms and the most harmful aspects of these reforms of the social security system. To talk about pensions in Galicia is to talk about the country's future, in general, because there are a lot of families that depend solely on pensions. It's a central issue for the Greeks and for the Greeks. So today we are calling for support for this initiative. We understand that it should be supported widely. But if the People's Party and the Socialist Party vote in favour of this initiative, they will also be verbalizing that they make an amendment to all the public policies that they have been pursuing in recent years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u146	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quinteiro. You have the floor, for the Galician Socialists' Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u147	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. With regard to the proposal for a non-law on wages and contribution bases, which says that Social Security has a deficit in income due to contributions and pension payments due to a lack of income, we agree with the data presented in the motion and the need to change the policies of precariousness of the People's Party. We have to focus on two measures that the Government of Pedro Sánchez has implemented when the minimum interprofessional wage has been increased and the impact it has had on the basis of contributions. The Government of Spain approved by Royal Decree the increase of 22.3 % of the minimum inter-professional wage, the highest increase in four decades. The above-mentioned increase increases the living standards of the worst-paid people, such as women and young people, and promotes more dynamic wage growth, in line with international recommendations and with the minimal increase in the agreement agreed by the social partners in the Fourth Agreement on Employment and Collective Negotiation. The rise in the minimum inter-professional wage — the largest in recent decades, as I said — contributes to ensuring the sustainability of the social security system. It also reduces the gender wage gap, affecting 56.7% of women against 43% of men, and consequently the gender gap in pensions. The rise in the minimum wage has favored the increase in income from social security contributions by 8% in the first three months of this year, improving the quality of life and the consumption capacity of workers and workers. The People's Party said this measure was going to destroy jobs and end the country. However, what happened was an increase in social security membership by about 2%. The sectors in Galicia that were most benefited by this measure of the Government of Pedro Sánchez were trade, hospitality and services. In favour of this increase, the coordinator of the Galician Economic Forum, Mr. Fernando González Laxe, former president of the Galician Union, explained that in the first quarter the Greek economy showed less dynamism than Spain, warning about a change of behaviour, with a sharp decline in exports. However, — I said — it is the domestic demand to which GDP rises, thanks — according to Laxe — to the increased consumption of households promoted, among other things, by the increase in the minimum interprofessional wage. In other matters, we must also focus on the fight against labour fraud, in collaboration with the Labour Inspectorate, in order to prevent contracts that should be undefined from being carried out as temporary. Not only the illegality of these behaviors is what is worrying, but the direct prejudice that is producing in the workers who suffer it, which imposes an excessive rotation of very short-term contracts, preventing the development of professional careers, as is the case with Sergas contracts, which are so much talked about in this Parliament. It is clear that temporality is the cause of inequality. Equality, in addition, is recognized, as we know, in Article 15 of the Statute, that it collects equal pay in temporary and indefinite contracts, but we all know cases where a temporary contract does not receive supplements that if it receives an indefinite worker. The continuing sequence of contracts also means a reduction in social security contributions for these events that we said, to pay less supplements. Another measure of the Government of Pedro Sánchez, which is the obligation to establish the day-to-day record, which has directly increased social security contributions because companies now have an obligation not only to record the hours that occur as excess of the normal day-to-day, but also the entire working day; it has been a measure that has produced that increase in workers' contributions and, of course, that will benefit — as the companion who preceded me in the use of the word — pensions. That is why we ask that, in order to achieve more and better wages to get out of the crisis, the Greek Parliament urges the European Parliament to set up a plan - the end - to fight labour fraud in collaboration with the Labour Inspectorate, with the aim of preventing contracts that should be undefined...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u148	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u149	...to be carried out as temporary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u150	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta. For the Mixed Group, Mr. Villares Naveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u151	Good morning to all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, Social Security is perhaps the central institution of the welfare state because it supports the continuances of working citizenship throughout its life, from support to birth benefit, the continence of illness or accidents throughout working life, disability and retirement pensions. It is, therefore, the instrument of basic solidarity of working classes, the instrument of par excellence of solidarity throughout history, and throughout history, also of the Spanish State for more than a century. Social Security is concerned with the income-generating incomes of work, with the effort of contribution as a result of that work, and is therefore suffering from the balance in terms of the economic periods when they affect employment. The more employment and better wages, the more contributions and better health from the Social Security box. It happens, however, that after the last economic recession, which had its financial origin, there was no conflict of labour relations, there were labour reforms that resulted not from labour conflict, nor from labour relations, but from a financial crisis. So, with no causal link between one thing and the other, they paid for the working classes, with the precariousness that led to labor reforms, that economic recession that had a financial origin. A labour reform resulting from two policies, two reforms, carried out by the Socialist Party first and by the People's Party afterwards, which assumed the labour market in the present and absolute precariousness, creating a sort of dictatorship of working precariousness. Working precariousness, firstly characterized by temporality since 2014; a temporality that in the case of women reaches 80%, are the ones that suffer this temporality. Low wages, that drama of working and not getting out of poverty where there's a significant part of our country's population. A 40% of the official surveys recognize difficulties to reach the end of the month; and according to data from the People's Valedoría, 160,000 Greek homes were excluded from the fare of the last resort being within, as you know, due to administrative difficulties to access it, and it gives us just that unquestionable and official data, of the situation in many homes in our country. A part-time that takes place, in the female case, 80% since 2014, with the consolidation of the 29% gender pay gap, where conciliation directly requires the resignation of work and falls on women by 95%. This is the picture that leaves us with work reforms. If the PSOE — particularly because they are amendable and have just made a speech in this direction — really wants to reverse the situation and increase the quality of life, the first thing they have to do is to commit themselves unconditionally to the derogation of the two labour reforms — and not from the most harmful aspects, but in addition to the labour reforms — to end the precariousness of work right now and to end the empowerment that the unions have suffered to defend the collective working conditions as a result of these reforms, and also step by step, although it is not part of the reforms but directly and negatively in the labour market, to ban multi-service enterprises, which are real slave labour traffickers. In Galicia we live, as a result of this situation, a real social emergency. Precautionary means deceiving the population, many times, with the large figures that put us on TV, making a lot of people busy with an idyllic job situation. The occupation of this type of work implies little contribution, because since the last economic recession there has been a significant loss of hours of work, a significant loss of hours of contribution, a significant loss of the mass of contribution for those low wages, all of which effectively contribute to undermining the accounts of Social Security. The question is whether the system is at risk. The system is at risk, but not because workers and workers don't do their part. The workers and workers work hard to work, and they work, but those who don't do are those who have the benefits exacerbated by the work done by the workers and the workers; that is, the Government and the large corporations don't do their part of the work. We think it's not fair that to shoot the business profit if workers and workers are precarious and, above all, have a side effect — which is secondary but is main — that is the economic dismantling of Social Security, with which neoliberalism is especially pleased. Why? Because the social disprotection of the dismantling of Social Security would lead to the conversion of the greatest value of the workers, which is their labor, into simple slave labor, without institutions of protection against the continuances of life. That's why...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u152	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u153	...—now finished—we support this non-law proposal, because we believe it is good to look for the opportunity to generate employment opportunities, it is necessary to ban measures to promote the use of the social security backpack, and therefore measures such as those set out in the proposal, such as flat rates and bonuses should not prejudice the whole...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u154	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u155	...of the working class and they must fall upon the whole, the budgetary effort. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Villares. By the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado Cores has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u157	Good morning. I want to start by saying that pensions are a right won by the workers' movement with blood, sweat and tears. It's nothing granted, it's not the fruit of any social pact reached in the offices, it's the fruit of the mobilization and constant struggle of the working class, and as such conquest, it's been the subject of attacks for some time. [[Applause]] The attack on the pension system comes from far away, and for years now they've been predicting their creba, their insatiability, the difficulty of being able to cope with the budget that this means. They need to frighten the population in general, public opinion, presenting them as inadmissible, in order to do the constant reforms they were doing, hiding behind that theoretical impossibility because we are living more and more, because more and more pensions are needed. Reforms that were totally in the direction of reducing the amount of these pensions, a blatant theft of the working class, of the current pensions, but within all these reforms, are implicit in reducing wages, with which there is also a theft of future pensions, because they will be lower. I have to remember that the 2011 reform imposed by the PSOE increased the retirement age from 65 to 67; it increased the calculation of pensions from 15 to 25 years; it introduced the sustainability factor; that is, elements in the non-palliative deterioration of pensions. And after the 2013 reform of the People's Party, it eliminated the update according to the IPC and they put the bag in the pension box; that is, all of them measures to go making pensions difficult and justify those permanent cuts. In the case of Galicia, this situation is even smaller, so to speak, because we have the lowest wages, with which we have the lowest pensions in the Spanish state, only behind Extremeura. The average pension in Galicia is 150 euros lower than the average of the Spanish state, in pensions that in many cases do not reach the 600 euros or rub the 600 euros, such as widow's pensions or self-employed pensions, which obviously shows a loss of purchasing capacity of pensioners and pensioners in our country, and we also have to remember that in many homes in Galicia it is the only income it enters. We can actually talk about the gender gap, which in Galicia is 36% less. Women pensioners in Galicia who earn a pension, earn 36% less than men's pensions. A Greek pensioner charges over 357 euros less a month than men, which means 5,000 euros a year. It seems to me like a really chilly figure. Why is that? Because we work more part-time, not by choice, but because they are the only jobs offered to women, because we have more time; because women's work focuses on jobs with less income, 37% of women's wages do not reach the minimum inter-professional wage, so pensions give this result: truly poor pensions. In short, at the BNG we have also been busy and concerned about this issue, and also on many occasions in this Parliament. There is a need for measures that go totally contrary to what they are going. We are going to support this initiative presented by the Joint Left Group today because, of course, we agree to repeal all these measures: the sustainability factor, which means that more years than a pension, and, of course, apart from advertising a number of measures that are not allowing the recovery of the loss of purchasing power over all these years, we must update them, all these measures that make pensioners generally, but in particular the pensioners in Galicia, are in conditions that do not allow them to live a decent life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u158	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. The People's Parliamentary Group has the floor Mr Tellado Filgueira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u159	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. We are facing an initiative that aims to put your finger on the Socialist Party once more. Indeed, the Socialist Party had a change of speech in this matter when it decided to stand differently with regard to the derogation from the labour reform which both claimed when they were in the opposition and which they forgot once they arrived at the Moncloa Palace. There are statements in the press of various offices of the Socialist Party, which are now embracing the labour reform approved by the People's Party to deal with the crisis. It is undeniable that the labour reform of the People's Party has allowed the creation of 2,700,000 jobs, the reason for 500,000 jobs each year, and it is clear that the political instability advocated by the Socialist Party and Mr. Pedro Sánchez always becomes in economic downturn and in crisis. It is surprising that the tides of Podemos bring this initiative, when we unanimously approved an institutional declaration in defence of the public pension system, in which we spoke of incorporating the IPC as the main criterion, such as the trunk criterion, of revalorization of pensions. The national pension system is one of the paws of our welfare state; a contributing system and a solidarity system that has been in operation for decades; a system that is heritage of all and that no one can afford it; a system that has great challenges in the future, of course, yes, and does not assume it is to deny reality. We have a great challenge, which is the increase in life expectancy, fortunately, in our country. That means we're going to have to pay our pension to our retirees for more years and that we have necessarily the need to increase the number of taxpayers to increase the system's income. You have to increase your income to make the system sustainable, be viable. The truth is the system was put at risk in 2011, when the Socialist Party ruled. And why? Because the Socialist Party, in those years of serious economic crisis in which it has done nothing, has allowed unemployment to increase in our country to the destruction of three million jobs. The socialists left more than five million unemployed in our country, and this imbalanced the social security system, disbalanced the pension system. The sustainability of social security and pensions is a crucial issue for our welfare state. We know that there are parties that live to try to destabilize our public services, but we have a pension system that is one of the most advanced in the world, one of the most advanced in Europe. Since the conviction that not everything should be part of the partisan debate, the so-called Toledo Pact was launched in 1995 to deal precisely with these issues and to consensualize the reforms that make this system viable. Unfortunately, today they come here with a proposal, and they come with this proposal because there are elections within 20 days. They come with this proposal because you and your party, I don't know if it's still your party, whether it's the Power Tide or not, but the brother party got up from the Toledo Pact at the last meeting and blew up the negotiations to continue with all this. Look, what inheritance do we receive from the Socialist Party of the years of Rodríguez Zapatero? Frozen pensions, that made your partner; a system in red numbers, left the country at the edge of the rescue; and what they did was destroy millions of jobs. Of course, the system was in a difficult situation of sustainability! What did we do? We, of course, did not freeze or cut pensions; we avoided the ransom, and, avoiding Spain's ransom, what we achieved is that in the national pension system it did not happen what happened in other countries such as Greece, Ireland or Portugal, which saw pensions reduced by about 40%. Today, thanks to these measures, in Spain there are more pensions, today there are 8% more pensions than in 2007, and today there are higher pensions, higher pensions and higher pensions. Today, more pensioners than ever, and we can say that since 2007 the spending on tax pensions has increased by 53%, from 79,000 million in 2007 to 122,000 million in 2017. I use the 2017 data because it's the data of the initiative proposed by the We can Tides.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u160	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u161	So the inheritance received was frozen pensions, that's reality. In the period of the People's Party's Government, pensions have been revalued, through our rate of revaluation, just like the increase in the IPC, exactly the same, exactly the same! Now you're surprised to see the Socialist Party gentlemen claim the last rise in pensions, you know why? Because that pension rise was in the general budgets of the state that let Mariano Rajoy's Government approve.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u162	Thank you very much. Time's up--
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u163	Of course, we have a commitment to the sustainability of the system, we are concerned about the pensions of our country, but we are also concerned about the pensions of our children and our grandchildren. I believe that to introduce this debate after adopting an institutional statement at the last plenary session, when we are at the door of a general election, the only thing we are looking for is to kidnap a handful of votes from the Socialist Party, which they did freeze pensions in our country. The only sad party, the Socialist Workers' Party and Spanish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. Time's up. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u165	Thank you. We accept the amendment, which I didn't say before, from the Socialist Party to our non-law proposal, and the truth surprises us at the speech that the People's Party brought here. It is true that the Socialist Party — and we have also said it — has had changes in its position, but the People's Party, frankly, does not stay very behind, because it was the ones who while they ruled directly against the public pension system, because the reforms they approved, together, the only thing they served was to make the labour market more precarious, so that pensioners have more difficulties and more precariousness, that's the reality. They always use the same argument: you have to increase the number of contributors. And why don't you talk about what's going to increase is contributions, too? Because it's no use creating jobs under working conditions of misery. What needs to be created is quality employment, and the job created in recent years, thanks to recent labour reforms, is precarious, with wages of misery. Many people have to work on several jobs to have a minimum wage for housing, bills, the most basic issues. So you have to increase the number of taxpayers, but above all you also have to increase the rates of contributions, because at the worst wages, obviously, as I said before, are worse quotes. The only ones who use pensions and the public pension system to make electoralism are you, the only ones! And if they don't think it's important to bring an initiative when pensioners are on the street, when they've been claiming for years... we've been defending the same thing for a long time. The People's Party and the Socialist Party have many contradictions between what they said they do, among what they say they defend, among what they approve, even in institutional declarations. Oh, my God! We join in, and we will rejoice to defend ourselves from now on the public pension system. But to this day, so far, the only thing they've done with their political positions and with their reforms has been to make it worse, that's the reality. And the contradictions between what they say to defend and do, because no one wins. Not a word Mr. Tellado said that more pensioners are growing. And why don't you talk about the counties? Why don't you talk about that every time, obviously, there are more older people of age who are getting a pension? Why don't you talk about Galicia being the second largest pension community in the Spanish state? Doesn't it seem to you anything worrying that we're in the pension queue? It does not seem worrying to you either, and everything is wonderful, despite the fact that women pensioners cover EUR 4,000 less than an average per year. You look wonderful! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u166	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u167	That's true. When it's on the other side, it's always called to order and it's always ordered to shut up. When it comes to the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u168	Quiet. I see it in time. [[Murmurs.]] Let's call order to everyone who interrupts. I'm talking to everyone. We're starting from now on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u169	What happens is that it always starts when it's on the other side.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u170	I accept. I think it's great. Everything that interrupts, we call it in order. See how many end up full.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u171	I think no one interrupted him today, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u172	Quiet, quiet. Quiet, quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! Are we gonna start now or are we gonna start in a little bit? Silence! Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u173	I'm done. I didn't quite understand what the People's Party is going to do, but they do what they do, what is clear is that with their speech they have no desire to change the policies they defend in the medium term. All they are defending is the private system, privatizing absolutely all public services: making employment worse, creating more and more precarious every day, no kind of willingness to end the gender gap that exists in all areas of our lives, and especially in pensions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u174	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next initiative. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado and seven other Members, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government in relation to the fees and works performed and committed on the AP-9 motorway, as well as its connection to the Via Ártabra
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u175	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u176	Mr. Fernández Prado has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u177	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Before the development of the details of this LNP, let me make a general reflection plan that has to do with it. First of all, I want to make it clear that this parliamentary group brings a non-law proposal asking for the same thing that was negotiated with the Government of Mariano Rajoy in March 2018 and that it was going to run with the 2018 budgets, also approved with the Government of Mariano Rajoy, but an infamous motion of censure led Pedro Sánchez to the Government and, unfortunately to Galicia, those investments planned in the 2018 budget were cancelled. These demands could be executed because there were budgets, they were agreed, and also because they can be made by a Government in functions or without functions. It's eighteen months before it's done. Second reflection. We are in the People's Parliamentary Group deeply concerned by the repeated failure that the Government chaired by Pedro Sánchez has with Galicia in investments that are particularly important for Galicia. We have already spoken in this plenary on energy and employment matters. Alcohol or Bridges need certainties of a statute of electrointensives already and need certainties in tax measures now, not poles in the wheels. We have also been listening for months to excuses and lies by the Socialist Government in Madrid on the payments of deliveries on account, but today we haven't paid a single euro of the 700 million euros owed to Galicia. A lot of electoral, media propaganda, but, payments on Galicia account, Euro of these 700 million! Also concerned about the issues of investments and repeated non-compliances on infrastructure issues, not to mention the AVE, strategic work. When he arrived at government Pedro Sánchez, 16 months ago, he said that the deadlines promised by Mariano Rajoy were possible and could be done. Eighteen months ago it was said that it was possible to have completed the work of the AVE at the end of 2019, and in evidence, with all the security measures, by 2020. For we have to listen these days to the Government Delegate speaking of 2021, failing to keep his own promises, which 17 months ago said it was possible to fulfill. Also with other tenders, such as the orbital link in Santiago, the outer variant of Ourense, the intermodal railway station of the Coruña, all with photos, saying that it would be bid since April, because of course, there was a choice in April, but we continued without them, despite the fact that they are budgeted by Mariano Rajoy and despite the fact that it was possible to execute them in these sixteen months. Of course also, defaults on AP-9, like the rest of the things we've been talking about. The other day, we took to Commission 2nd — my colleague Alberto Pazos — the abolition of the elimination of the sins of the Roundup which were committed and the compensatory works, which, for the most part, I don't know how to qualify. I already said the other day, Mr. Peaces that these do not have or have to pay for the government, these are compensatory works that you have to pay for Audasa, all you have to do is demand the Audasa dealership to do them, in or that, or that! They are also collected in this non-law proposal. In any case, we hope that it will also be approved unanimously, as it was done last Thursday. In 2017 a follow-up commission was established between the Galician Union and the Ministry for the follow-up to AP-9. I know you don't like it being remembered and we're talking about it, I know you don't like it, but you've already had four meetings this commission and important progress for Galicia. They don't like it to be remembered, but one major thing is that we had a Bipartite agreement, Touriño with Zapatero, that we paid the Greeks the bonus of the fees of a work of Development: 400 million euros, to the end of the concession, in the plot The Barcala-The Bark and The Vigo Morrazo. Well, that's been avoided now, and it pays the central government in full. These are the things that this commission, which they don't like to talk about, was waking up. Last November, with Pedro Sánchez, on 13 November, he was also asked to soften these extraordinary increases in the fees provided for by a work that carries the fees rather than the budgets. A request we make in this proposal not by law that we understand that they are not disproportionate, nor anything that is not being given to other autonomous communities by this Government of Pedro Sánchez. Nor is this the non-law proposal to request the transfer of AP-9, which has already been requested, and we have already voted three times with the majority vote of the majority group of the People's Party. But instead we asked them for a few first steps towards the reduction of fees, we asked for realistic and possible bonuses, already reached and budgeted, and we asked for it to be fulfilled with the works that were already agreed upon, projects made, and in some cases already approved the bidding by the Government. Let this run. We don't ask for big things, but what's already compromised. Works like Alfonso Molina's in Coruña, like the orbital link in Santiago, that in the last elections, in April, they were reluctant to approve the bidding authorization, and six months later, I don't know how many months we've been with it approved, all we have to do is send it to the BOE, and they haven't done it. It is budgeted in 2018 by Rajoy, 20.8 million euros. The firefighters' knot in Pontevedra, the compensatory works of Chapel that we spoke about before, urban integration in Vigo or the compromised liberalisation of peas between Round-Vigo, are already negotiated, already requested, already budgeted, that we include and that we want to remember, because we have been waiting for sixteen months for them. And, if not, those works don't impact on users' price hikes. Because while in other highways, we had to start paying that fateful deal — I know you don't like to remember it — that Zapatero and Blanco decree, forty-eight hours before the elections, which carried the works of extension of Rande and the Circulation of Santiago to the beaches, which was what was agreed in 2011. They didn't say how they were going to pay. They said that they would explain it after the elections. Of course, it was at the expense! In any case, the socialist spokesman likes to remind me that in 2013 there was a second decree, which was an allowance for bonuses to go back. But allow me, Mr. Socialist spokesman, to bring you and remind you of a third decree that is of 29 October 2018 — there is nothing — signed by Mr. José Luis Abalos Meco, which does not speak of the decree of 2013. [[Mr. Fernández Prado shows a document to the House.]] Say: "Modification and addendum of the Royal Decree of 2011". Do you know how many times he speaks of the decree of 2011 this decree a few months ago? Six times. Do you know how many times he speaks of the decree — what you speak of — of Ana Pastor? Zero. Why? Because it has nothing to do with it. The decree of truth was what Blanco did, and what makes it possible to charge those fees is signed by Abbalos and Zapatero, and it's October of last year. I'll tell you more. The last thing the socialist government of Zapatero did was approve the payment of the works against the peaxes, and the first thing the government of Pedro Sánchez did was authorize the collection. Because in the seven years of Mariano Rajoy's government we didn't pay those fees. If it was this October 2018 decree that allowed them to start paying those works, and that's why we had an increase of almost six points in four months, because we confirmed what Blanco had already planned and what Mr. Abalos did. Meanwhile, they go down and rescue the highways in other communities, they go down the beaches in other highways, they boost those highways. And we have to keep asking what was already planned. I used to speak to my secretary general and spokesman, and I was commenting on the change of position. I want to remind them that there is nothing, when they were in the opposition in Madrid, Gonzalo Caballero said — October 26 — "These climbs must not be paid by the fees, they must be done by budgetary mechanisms." [[Mr. Fernández Prado shows a document to the House.]] Here you go, October 26th. And a few months later, or 5 January, Mr. Leicega said: "These are far from reality with the toll of AP-9, and we insist on Development that it takes the cost of the works so that it does not affect users, which can be done budgetly." [[Mr. Fernández Prado shows another document.]] A few months later we see that they are charged at the rates. What do we ask? You usually laugh at the price cuts of the Galician Union, laugh and make fun of it. But at least they did!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u178	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u179	Do that in the states. The only thing we ask them to do is follow the example of what the Galician Union is doing, which is — you might think little or much — lower the fees and upgrade them for users. That's what we asked...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u180	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u181	...to do the Government of Madrid as well. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Prado. Mr Álvarez Martínez has the floor of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Fernández Prado, do you know what is infamous? Do you know what was infamous? Gürtel's sentence, which is what caused the motion of censure. That was infamous for the democracy of this country! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u184	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u185	Has it already entered into force, Mr President, the warning in every intervention outside what is being said in this plenary or can I go on normally?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u186	I think you can continue...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u187	I appreciate it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u188	In any case, with those fantastic 2018 budgets, it's true that you can say they were going to solve everything; at the end of the day, as there was no need to execute them in their entirety, because they contemplated everything. Were they even contemplating the elimination of the Vigo-Roundela beach? No, because, as Mr Pazos said in Commission 4th last week, the minister himself — not to mention sincerity — said that it would be difficult to make such a reduction within the economic and budgetary context that existed. That's the reality. But, look, do you know what the original sin of all this situation is? Privatization of AP-9 until 2048. And practically all the performances that have to do with these beaches are responsible for the government, which is the People's Party. First, there was a suppression of the 7% discount, carried out by the Minister of Montoro, through the approval of the Royal Decree Law 20/2012. Afterwards, IVE increased from 18% to 21%, also in 2012. It is true that there was a royal decree in 2013 with that convention that made a socialist government, but it was later ratified by an agreement already signed by a People's Party government in 2012. That is, it was basically the central governments of the People's Party who decided the extraordinary subs of the AP-9 tariffs, which are why the People's Party is currently so scandalized. Now it turns out, eight years after he signed that new agreement to Minister Pastor, they discovered what was called the "little letter" of the agreement. He shut up for the seven years of Rajoy's government. You talked about photos. You will remember the photo of the opening of the Rande Bridge when it was not yet completed to -- let's say -- advertise, at that time, a work that was not finished. And you talk about photos. They have a lot of tendency in this crowd to talk about photos! But Mariano Rajoy's government approved and implemented the mechanisms for enlargement with Audasa, as can be seen in that protocol signed in December 2012 by Minister Ana Pastor and the concessionary company. So they were very happy both in the Government of the State and in the Government of the Unity of Galicia. The Government of the State said — in the press note — that "from this protocol there will be no agreements for the development of a series of works and for the reduction of the fee, and that, under this agreement, the concessionary society will carry out with utmost diligence the actions to initiate the works of expansion of the AP-9 in Santiago de Compostela and in the outline of Rande provided for in the previous convention". At that time, Mr. Hernández, today President of the Economic and Social Council, said that the 2012 protocol signed by Minister Pastor was the fruit of an intense work for a year ago by the Minister of Development and explained that the goal was to improve the real decree of the final stage of the Socialist Government, which included Rande's enlargement and Santiago's circumvaluation. It is more than clear that to improve it is necessary to change the previous agreement. But I am convinced that you have read the agreement signed by Minister Pastor and you know perfectly what he also says in that small letter, that new protocol between the concessionary society and the Ministry of Development that adapted to a greater extent the future demands of transport from the entire corridor to the needs of users. And in developing that protocol, they said, "Today we don't talk about words or demonstrations anymore, we're talking about facts." Mr. Fernández Prado, Mr. President of the Board, said that the Government of Galician Unity had taken a service position, not helpful. What was your position before with respect to the Government? Yeah, I'll tell you. In 2017 you voted against a non-law proposition by this party in which we ask that the reduction in tariffs that abolished the Royal Decree Law 20/2012 be recovered and that the works of expansion of AP-9 capacity be taken into account by the budgets. And you voted against because at that time Mr. Mariano Rajoy was ruling in the State. They also voted against a non-law proposal that also made this group asking for 50% of the reduction in travel also in self-government highways.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u189	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u190	It's over, Mr. President. From there the contents of our amendment. And I'm practically convinced that you're going to support her...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u191	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u192	...because you are to maintain a constant criterion over time. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez. Mr Villares Naveira has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u194	Good morning again. Mr. Fernández Prado, allow me, at the thread of your reflections, to move you two. It speaks of the infamous motion of censure, which is a constitutional mechanism of article 113. And since that motion of censure had as a trigger a sentence, the famous judgment of the Gürtel case, I would like you to qualify that sentence here when you have the opportunity to close your intervention. I say it by enriching us all linguistically. Secondly, he also made a previous comment about funding, about money that didn't come and electoralist use. We, two months ago, proposed to you a monographic debate in this House on this subject, for a parliamentary statement and even for all of us to come up with solutions; solutions that were not part of it or that were not patched up and that would definitely solve that issue. We, for example, have proposed — and it is pending that it is available to deal with in this House — the amendment of the law of the Government, so that, in situations like this, there are no financing problems. We want to know if you live more comfortable lives in electoral victimism and, therefore, you prefer to leave things like this or if you really have a political will to bring it to the House to solve it now and forever. So if that is the case — because it does the reflection — it can count on us; if it does not, of course, not. And by following up on the text comments of your proposal, you start by saying in the explanatory statement that the AP-9 motorway is a 217 km long toll motorway integrated into the State Road Network. This highway, of state ownership, covers a very important part of the territory of Galicia and it is the vertebrate road of the country and so... All right, look, with these claims we agree, to the fact that you have technical knowledge in the area of land management, but explain to me, on the closing occasion, why the People's Party passed a rule of state roads — in the Rajoy era government — which contained, as an annex according to that State Road Act, the construction of a highway called A-57, with the name "Atlantic Highway" and a trace between The Crown and the Porriño. Explain why. Because if we already have this AP-9 with these features, why do we need a parallel bus? Sure, then tell us why. Do you know what's going on? A-57... Excuse me? [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u195	No, no! Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u196	A-57, in its construction, in its full development, will plot a line parallel to this AP-9 with an estimated cost of between 1,200 and 1,500 million euros. Isn't it a little waste for the times that run — or for any time, but especially for the times that run —? I would like, as you make this definition, to take advantage of the closure — since we are talking about infrastructures, and vertebrate infrastructures — to say what is the utility of that infrastructure. In the third paragraph you speak, as a great merit of the People's Party, of the AP-9 follow-up commission. The follow-up committee — we want to remind you here too — is an indelible testimony of shame, the shame that the People's Party had refused to debate — not to approve it, but to debate — in the Congress of Members in the previous legislative session the transfer of AP-9 to the Autonomous Community of Galicia, which was unanimously claimed by this Parliament. This veto — and vote, which has counted on the vote in favour of these twelve Members and Members of the People's Party — is what justifies that, instead of a transfer, we have a "commissory" when what we had to have is the transfer. And today, if in any case, this demand you put here in the operative part to which we would have to address it would not be to the Government of the State but to the Government of the Autonomous Community, which holds once such a transfer takes place. I wonder — and I want you to answer — why we have to be happy with a committee when it really is the result of the veto on the unanimous move by this House. And I wonder if, in democratic terms, in terms of the decentralization of the state and in terms of the consolidation of our self-government, it would not be better for the transfer than that commission that you come here now to claim, would it not? In other words, they claim it when what they should claim is the lifting of that veto and, therefore, the transfer. In the operative part, you're in favour of your request to the Government of the State. We could be asking the Autonomous Community. The PP could be asking the Government of Galicia to do this. But for that, you'd have to compete. And we don't have the competition because you guys got it. Home, for we have a good debate. The other day, I told the Commission that this was actually one of the popular classics of the People's Party, right, when they don't rule in the state...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u197	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u198	...—and—with this canteen. As regards the financing of the works from the next point of the operative part, the same account. You could ask the Government of Galicia to issue it from Audasa if we had the transfer, and we don't have it; we don't have it because you voted against it. So what are we talking about here?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u199	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u200	I'm done. Nothing, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u202	We will vote in favour of the proposal because we agree with it; we think it is insufficient, but we agree with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u203	Thank you very much. Mr Bará Torres has the floor by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u204	Mr. Fernández Prado, you did a memory exercise but you did a selective memory exercise. You've forgotten a lot of things on the way because the story of AP-9 -- we won't get tired of repeating it -- is the story of a great scam that is shared responsibility for the two major parties, but mainly the People's Party. Or don't you remember that it was the People's Party who, in 2000, privatized Audasa? Mr. Aznar. And you don't remember that it was the People's Party, also Mr. Aznar in 2003, which extended the concession until 2048, twenty-five more years, being a councilman for the Public Works of the Greek Government, Mr. Feijóo, who said "amen"? That part of the story to you isn't... there's the root of the problem!, because we have to be twenty-five years more paying abusive beaches while other roads to this same generation, such as the road between Burgos and Arminón or A-7, between Tarragona and Alacant, will stay... well, Burgos's has already been free of toll and that of Alacant-Tarragona will be free next year. That is the question: you have been systematically favoring the concessionaire and are complicit in all the decisions, just as when you touched the Socialist Party, of all those abuses, of all those biases to the concessionaire. And you are also responsible for a great outrage on this country and on this parliament as it has been approved here, up to three times in this mandate, for the transfer of AP-9 and for you to prevent the processing by the State Parliament. It is the responsibility of the People's Party. And they still come here to give us history lessons. Then take note of history and its responsibility. The reality is that the concessionaire was favored by the governments of turn, by one and the other; and there is Rande's treasure, indeed, the large multi-millionaire business that will allow him to collect up to 2048 — according to the accounts of the company itself — nothing more and nothing less than 14,556 million euros, of which a third will benefit. And that's why more than 40 million are raised every year by the concessionary company, thanks to these precedents and these privileges, approved by the Socialist Government in 2011 with that agreement which Mr. Pepe Blanco signed and ratified, point by point, by Mrs. Ana Pastor the following year, when he signed a protocol and then the agreement, ratified by the People's Party. And to you, of course, it seems so bad that agreement, but when they were ruling, it turns out that they were taking pictures of the first stone of the enlargement of the Rande Bridge, of the enlargement of the highway in Santiago. And they were in a great hurry also to open up to traffic on the last day of 2017 the Rande Bridge, precisely so that Audasa could charge the price hike, which later approved the Socialist Party. That was the role of the People's Party. And now that they come to demand freeness between Roundla and Vigo is very good, but they were able to do it when they ruled, because Mrs. Pastor approved an agreement in 2013. Why didn't you include the freeness between Roundla and Vigo? Because in addition, I read a press headline to you: "The People's Party of Galicia votes against abolishing the toll in Roundla." History too. This was March 9, 2012 in this parliament for a BNG proposal, which the People's Party voted against in 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017 ruling the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u205	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u206	...and they didn't take the toll from Round it up. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, whose responsibility is this situation? So don't come here to teach lessons from anything, don't teach lessons from anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u207	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. You have the floor by the Joint Parliamentary Group on the Left, Mr Cal Ogong.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u208	Thank you, President. Mr. Fernández Prado tells us to take an example of what the Galician Union is doing on these occasions, and allow us not to take this example because you are absolutely nothing. Their example is to eliminate the rates between twelve and six o'clock in the morning, which they know is a makeup policy that does not solve any problems and does not in any way dynamize economic and social development; it only serves to make propaganda. The example of the Galician Union is to propose that the fee that is eliminated in Round it be paid by the rest of the users instead of Audasa. That's the position you're defending and that doesn't seem right to us, because we think it should go from Audasa's account. The example of the Galician Union is that in today's day, the pay of Roundla, they haven't changed anything at all. And the example of the Galician Union is to vote for the transfer here in this parliament, block the transfer in Madrid and get out in the media to say that the Ministry of Development is very good with Galicia and that everything is very good. That's the example the People's Party is setting up on this issue. They therefore understand that we do not support their propaganda, their example of propaganda, and that we advocate that real solutions to the problems of citizenship be sought. Mr. Tellado was saying that our pension initiative, which was an electoralist when we now know the problem with pensions, which are pensioners mobilising in the streets, but Mr. Tellado understands that with an institutional statement it is absolutely all solved and that it is not to bring about an electoral initiative. Then you will tell me what this initiative is, Mr. Fernández Prado, if this is not an electionist initiative! There are some choices within nothing, we don't know the government that will conform -- we obviously expect you're not there -- but in the event that you are, then what are they going to do? They're gonna hide like they always did when they were ruling the People's Party at Congress? And they'll say it's okay and it's okay even if they don't do anything about it at all, as they've been doing for the six years that ruled Rajoy in Congress; they've been here quiet, helpful, without absolutely demanding none of these measures. Obviously, justice must be done with citizenship in front of the AP-9 scam. Obviously, the citizenship of Chapela and Teis suffers from a comparative aggravation. And of course, they haven't had a lot of years by the administration in the last year, in the previous year, in the previous year, in the previous year and in the previous year, all the years of Mariano Rajoy were in this very situation, exactly in this very same situation. Of course it's an absolute injustice what you've done to her and, of course, you have to solve it. But you have to solve it when you rule the PSOE, but also when you rule the People's Party, exactly the same. So we have to solve it in the same way, and you didn't solve it, you didn't demand it, you didn't solve it, you didn't, you didn't solve it, you didn't, you didn't solve it, you didn't, you didn't solve it, you didn't, you didn't demand it when you were ruling in Congress and you were ruling here at the board. That's why we have to recriminalize their hypocritical attitude that "where I said, I say Diego," and on one occasion they vote one thing, on another occasion they vote another, on one occasion they recriminalize the government and on another occasion they hide and say that the central government behaves fantastically well. You're the propaganda party, nothing new! They're like green wood, it's all smoke, nothing behind it. Behind all there is absolute abandonment of all the responsibilities and defense of the powerful. That's the reality behind propaganda, that's what you hide behind all this pyrotechnic and this propaganda. The neighborhood of Chapel has indeed been waiting for many years for these measures that you have not been able to solve. I'd like to, Mr. Fernández Prado, if you can explain to us in your reply, if this is all so important to you, why didn't you do it during the years that Rajoy ruled the state and you were ruling here. Well, you can explain why you weren't able to do it in six years, whether it was incapacity or if you were in another position at the time, because it would also be nice if you told us. We also want you to clarify whether you, in fact, have defended that the elimination of the payout of Roundola is in charge of users and users, i.e., in charge of all Galician citizenship, and not in charge of the huge benefits of Audasa, because, today, they have not yet clarified us in that follow-up commission — which they think so well — what position did the Galician Union defend there, in a minimal exercise of transparency, to know what it was defending the Government of Galicia; whether the government has defended this or has defended another issue. Because, of course, Audasa's account is a real infamy, that's if it's a real infamy!: more than 40 million euros a year of benefit for a management that can carry out primary children; if it's very easy, if it's very easy to manage the AP-9 motorway. But there are people who are emboldening themselves in profits more than 40 million euros from the Greeks and the Greeks with this management, after the privatisation of Aznar, of Aznar's gift that mortgaged the future of the Greeks and the Greeks. And to finish by saying that the important thing in this matter is to recover AP-9 for the public,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u209	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u210	...it is not justified to remain privatized and to continue to cost all this money to the Greeks and to the Greeks. So we have to defend...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u211	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u212	...the conversion to the public and the transfer to Galicia of AP-9, which is the central and important theme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u213	Thank you very much, Mr. Cal. Mr. Fernández Prado has the floor for the closing turn.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u214	Thank you, President. Mr. Álvarez, I know it's hard to do this, I know that you have to have a few arguments for a party representative with the most convicted of corruption to justify a motion of censure with the independentists in a ruling of corruption when they have hundreds and hundreds... if that's why the party has the two former presidents sitting on the bench with you, the party that today... you can choose the day you want, even today, a million ghost vaccines in Andalusia, one million!... [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr. Fernández Prado shows a document to the House.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u215	Quiet. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, sir... We're still with the deal, aren't we? You asked when I was here; then, we continued with the agreement. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please. No, we're still in the deal. So far they've all been quiet, let's go on like this, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u216	I think what I said is all true. The most condemned party, the Socialist Party; the party with presidents sitting on the bench, the Socialist Party; with which one million phantom vaccines appear today in Andalusia, I believe it is with the Socialist Party. Few arguments have to justify a motion of censure with the independentists with these arguments. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] In any case, they lie, they lie a lot. What the minister said was that there would be a bonus for the payroll-Vigo, of the system that was going to be, but what would be done. And secondly, they say, extraordinary sums. In 2011, they were committed by the Socialist Government and authorized them to charge Pedro Sánchez a few months ago. And I leave that decree to the president for him to appear, in case he doesn't read it. In any case, don't fool people -- it's for you, Mr Bará --...when we voted in 2012 we tabled an amendment that expressly collected freeness; what happens is that I didn't pick up the other points that you put in that baturillo, in that motion, and that's why we had to vote against. Mr. Villares, if we have to qualify for judgements, we can begin with the trial. You as a magistrate can comment on something with your groupmates. We take the sentences and respect them, point. But, of course, I think it's the same case, because the whole left justifies the motion of censure with the independentists in an account and we're only in the story. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's a justification for throwing the People's Party out of government and putting on Mr. Sánchez, who was the only one who cares about the world, and the rest are cheap excuses. By the way, if you're so interested in explaining A-57, I'd almost rather leave that to those of Pontevedra. Mr Bará -- now that they ask for the vote for the BNG --...you can explain if the vote in Madrid that they ask for the BNG is to do the A-57 or not. The pontiffs who want A-57 know it's better to vote for PP, because they're going to have A-57, because it's also a new infrastructure.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u217	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u218	By the way — I'm finished — it's just that I...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u219	No, he's off.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u220	Mr. Cal, of course, works have been done, the school was done in Chapel — you can see it — you can go see the works of the Fortress (of Rande), you can go see the asphalts... but there are works to be done after the works are finished, and you must continue to do. That's the only thing the Socialist Government has to do...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u221	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u222	...is to pick up the phone and ask Mr. Sánchez to press...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u223	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u224	...the dealership and don't pay her if she doesn't do those works.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u225	Thank you very much. About the amendment... does the amendment accept it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u226	You don't have to pay them, you have to ask them to do it. The amendment can't be accepted because it's a facewash.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u227	That's it. Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Joint Left Group, on the initiative of Mr Sánchez García and two other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Council of Galicia to draw up a sectoral wind plan and the measures to be taken so far as is appropriate
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u228	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group and by the Group of the German Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u229	Mr Sánchez García has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u230	Good morning. First of all, I wanted to inform the People's Party that, if possible, they would notify the Industry Council, the General Directorate of Energy and Mines, that they have to run the car of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia and paralyze the works in the Oribio saw, which was already two days ago and yesterday the machines were still doing damage, and they've already done quite a bit of damage to their cascade. So, move him, please, see if they're more interested than us. Today we present a non-law proposal to propose a change that we believe is necessary and which is already late. The change of government and the economic crisis caused after 2009 that the wind sector was crippled almost completely until 2017-2018. It was a set of situations, the legal insecurity caused by government decisions Feijóo, caused by decisions by the Rajoy Government and the Soria Minister, and then also by the failure of the proponents to finance these wind farms. The model proposed by the People's Party, which is suited to certain companies, had no conditions to develop, but we have already said that if there were conditions to change the model and develop other types of wind installations, to walk towards small production, distributed generation and greater social participation. Galicia has very large and very good conditions to develop a democratic energy model, in people's hands, and with all the respect to landscape, heritage, environment and people. Galicia is no longer the same, in energy terms, as in the 1990s. You don't need a developmental policy that aims to implement wind yes or yes. You need to have a plan for a much less aggressive development of environmental cultural values and with much greater social return, and also plan the associated industry for the development of your own technology, to create an industry with greater quality in employment and with more employment, and it must be developed participatoryly. That was the debate that didn't open Mr. Feijóo's government and didn't open the People's Party because it doesn't interest people to do the energy business that they have today three or four companies. So we can't go on with this race of putting the country together with the windmills in a way that produces strong impacts and the benefits fly out of Galicia. This is the model that benefits electricity, banks, voitre funds that participate — as IGE data recently did — at 90% in the capital of these investments. In the years of paralysis this debate — as I said — was not opened because they were interested in keeping this knife closed for companies of all time. What we are asking for on this initiative, which is just a partial amendment, which is not everything, which is not the definitive solution, is nothing revolutionary, on the contrary, what we are asking for is the model proposed by European Directive 72/2009, which, as we explained at the initiative, advocates prioritising renewable energies against non-renewables, market freedom, free establishment for producers. I hope with the alleged liberals I don't have to defend the liberalizing position so that everyone can produce wind energy or any other energy. Conditionality of the distortion mechanisms of the free market, premiums or aids to the prior ineffectiveness of the free market to achieve the proposed objectives. The technological improvement makes it possible for liberalisation today, always taking into account environmental, landscape or heritage criteria, and not following the model of authorisation. The priority of small-scale and distributed-generation production plants. This is exactly drawn from the European Directive. Universal access to distribution and transport networks. Transparency in aid allocation processes etc. And in countries where this directive applies it translates into the massive presence of solar panels on roofs of industrial and housing vessels, the presence of small aerogeers in farms and factories, the elimination of nuclear energy, the preference for supply by many and small producers instead of a few and large. And preference — as I said — for distributed generation. And it also facilitates access and processing of small installations, another of the principles of the directive. A new reform is underway in Europe, which deepens much further in this way, so that we should be prepared. The goal is that businesses and housing, all possible, produce their energy and improve their energy efficiency. So we think that's the model of general interest, the sustainable model and the viable model. Liveable by the characteristics of a country with a spread population, with an equally extended power grid. And it's necessary, because it's essential to change the energy model that imposes on us the circumstances, to reduce the energy dependency in Galicia. No matter how many lies they repeat, they don't really become. Galicia is not a surplus of energy. Galicia has to import a lot of primary energy that is not able to produce here. Besides, it would be a model that would generate rents in rural areas, which would help fix rural populations, which would help people who still live in rural areas today. That from non-private natural resources, from the territory of all Galicians and Greeks, and from laws made in parliaments that supposedly defend the general interest, if you end up getting a business backed up at 90% by foreign companies and capital, is only explained by the spurious use of these institutions, by making policies against most. Making a new sectoral wind plan does not completely change the model, since it would have to change the law, as we proposed in the reforms of the Act to promote business initiatives. But it would help, and if it's urgent to change it, because the situation has changed a lot since its last change in 2002. Air carriers are not the same, environmental legislation is not the same, and society's awareness of the environment and heritage is not the same. So in order to begin to change the model by another more democratized and respectful with the country, we propose to develop a new wind sector plan in Galicia under the following premises: open a social participation procedure to develop this plan. For a period of not less than six months, the Galician Union will establish forms of open consultation with eco-logical, cultural, social, mountain owners, municipalities, etc., associations and collectives to obtain proposals for the development of a draft plan. And once this draft is drawn up, a new deadline will be opened so that all the groups consulted and the citizenry in question can present allegations. It is a sectoral plan that is drawn up on the basis of the principles I have already enumerated in my exhibition: much more respect for the country, much less developmentist and much more social return, and much more loyal to what European renewables directives are. And as long as this wind sector plan is not approved, we've seen some areas that we've seen claim that they don't shield themselves because the Galician Union hasn't done its job. Moreover, to help consolidate the wave of wind farms in these companies that are currently being installed in Galicia, the Galician Union delayed the proposed expansion of the Natura Network and delayed the approval of the landscape guidelines it had promised for 2017. It was a more complicated exercise with this business. We therefore believe that exclusion zones should be established which could very likely be within those proposals for enlargement of the Nature Network or those valuable areas at landscape level. So this is a model change that needs the country, which needs the general interest, to end with the popular party policy model. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u231	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u232	Good day again. The People's Party doesn't stop talking about this is the legislation of the countryside. But now in tax evasion they get as rural, so they can buy a house, The Grove and Sanxenxo; that's where many rural homes are bought, it seems. If you really think about rural areas, look at areas with developed rural areas, with rich rural areas, across Europe. They're based on ecological agribusiness primarily, but also on alternative energies. But of course, in the alternative energies in people's hands, not in the hands of four Friends companies of the People's Party, like, for example, the flagrant case of the company that leads the concession in the Iribio, which they follow, they don't listen. At the moment, the Galician Council — two days after the sentence — has done nothing. To change Galicia's sectoral wind plan is one of the key elements for setting population in rural areas, to increase incomes both from people and from communities and from mountain communities, which could greatly improve, from these incomes, the exploitation of all the territories they control. You cannot follow the current situation. The current situation is that someone well-connected charges a project of a wind plan where he likes, often a Madrid engineer, who I learned the other day, earn 2,500 euros and don't even go there, look at a topographical plan, put the flags there, come in, present it in the board, put the flag on the mountain, and that concession is for them forever, like the case of the Iribian, who have been with him for fifteen years and they haven't done anything, because what they wanted was to sell it. In the end, as there was no way and they got the money, because now it's much more business still, they started to develop it irregularly, as now says the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. I'm not going to repeat everything Mr. Sánchez said because we agree on everything, we're going to complete the matter with which he goes in our amendment. One of the fundamental issues is the declaration of public utility, which automatically implies forced expropriation. That has to end immediately. You can make a statement of public utility but without automatically implying expropriation. And in order to be able to carry it out, conditions of very determined social interests should be met and that we put them into practice in our amendment. For example, it is easier to give priority to projects that facilitate public participation and the social return of benefits to the community. Because they say, why don't people want the wind? Why are you going to want them? All there is is is inconvenience, there is no return. Then we also suggested that the concessionaires of the farm had at least signed a lease agreement, totally preventing the sale of land, with 70% of the area affected by the park. And, in case there are unknown or illegalizable owners, this percentage could fall to 50%. Then, whether or not all private-initiative projects, dedicated to self-consumption, have the obligation to collaborate in the creation of local energy communities — that is what is done in Germany and what is done in Denmark — of distribution and marketing of electricity in the municipalities where they are installed, offering them the possibility to buy through PPA, i.e. bilateral direct sale, a minimum of 15% of the kilowatts/hour produced per year, at an annual rate of 40% lower than the electricity pool of the previous year. Also all private projects not dedicated to self-consumption will have an obligation to rent, preventing the sale of land, at a minimum annual price of 5 euros/quilovatio installed. This should be the recommendation that the Union should make in all concessions that could be granted, with the total amount of the park being shared between the affected square meters. This amount, in addition, should be increased by 20% per 500 hours of operation estimated by the hours of operation of the previous year or by the anemometric measures of the studies being carried out. All wind farms with more than 3,000 hours of annual use are profitable. What's wrong? That it's best to put it on a site of 4,500 or 6,000, even if it's destroying heritage or destroying the possibilities of tourism development. Winds do, but neither anywhere nor anywhere. That's the proposal from En Marea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u233	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u234	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. We're talking about the wind sector, something very important for our country, and we can't do it without remembering the decade of failure that we've had with the Government of Nuñez Feijóo in this respect, because we would have to deal with two issues before we talk about the future. First, quantify. quantify how much it has cost this country the wind neglect they practiced by political sectarianism from the People's Party. Make fun of them, laugh at them! [[Applause]] That's a laugh, yeah! It's a laugh, but you have to remember, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, because you started to feel bad. They started wrong their government, yes, because by a demagogic and sectarian crusade they paralyzed a revolutionary wind competition. [[Applause]] And the story would have been different for this country if they let it move forward, ladies of the People's Party, because in 2009 the Greek windman led the production of the state in this way of generation, and he had nearly 3,000 megawatts installed, passed only by Castile-A Mancha, and you were the one that led us to a paralysis, gentlemen. Years later, Galliza is in third position, with Andalusia weighing his heels, but we have already been in fourth position thanks to his negligent management. Last 2017 we fell off the podium, I want to remind them. In any case, they can paint it as they like, but the figures and the data are there, and we can see how in a decade they installed less than 500 megawatts. They can talk here about the promises of the... yes, they do gestures... look, they go to the memory of the Galician Wind Association or the state and look at it. They know perfectly well that, in addition, they have failed with their law of corporate implementation. There are two years of the law of depredation! And the sector itself complains. Associations in the wind sector meet with us to complain that ordinary management procedures have not advanced and that they really are not serving for that. Not to mention what's costing us. Because, of course, they hug, they whisper, they get very angry, but they look, more than three million of the 2017 budgets were for judicial judgements against the decisions of the Government of Galician Union! [[Applause]] It's not like we're not moving with you anymore, they're taking us back, spending public money that's not enough for their chaps, permanent chaps in planning and legislation. The landscape guidelines were discussed earlier. What head does a government that has the guidelines of the landscape without approval adopts a natural heritage law before? What credibility! So they have to take and come with the Accompanying Law and modify it in less than six months of their approval. That's the people's party's management and rigour. In any case, I return to Mr Sánchez's exhibition with regard to criticism. We also understand, as your motion presents, that it's time to talk about the future, it's time to talk about what we want to do with the wind model. We understand that it takes an urgent shift in the face of the actions that are taking since the People's Party's Government. And there's something important to us, and there's another kind of planning. We share a good part of the motion. We have tabled some amendments of addition and nuances, but we understand that it is essential to develop this new sectoral wind plan; that Galicia also has a broad consensus with the associations of the sector, yes, but also with neighbouring organizations, rural organizations, trade unions and a long and so forth; that there is a report of the Preceptive Economic and Social Council, that there is time for the allegations, that there is planning, and that there is no problem today in many parts of our country. Because you come here to fill your mouth with that, of course!, the opposition generates alarmism, the opposition is anti-choice, just as the opposition is anti-mineering. No, what's anti-progress from the People's Party, and you're the ones that are damaging the sector when they operate in this way, with a lack of transparency, with a lack of public advice and a long et cetera. So we have many platforms in this country that are defending that idea so basic that we share, that wind yes, but not so, lords of the People's Party. We need them to make less hugs to Iberdrola and think more about alternative models. To that end, we also agree, of course, that a change of course must be made that has the protection of the environment as a priority, that it also has compensation plans for the territory and that it must also have — it must be said — public participation. [[Applause]] It was a mistake that you gave up public participation, because you even changed it by a cannon that's only good for fattening the budgets of the Galician Union and for hunting with the municipalities, and that historic error we're paying on the bill of the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Applause]] This year we're going to pay 38 million euros more and all for its fiasco, for changing a model of public participation that would be successful for a wind canon trick that isn't even considered by justice itself as an environmental tribute.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u235	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u236	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u237	Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u238	Thank you, Mr. President. At the end of the last century, Galicia led the deployment of electricity in the Iberian Peninsula, both quantitatively, with the first wind farms that were deploying, as qualitatively, by being the first autonomous community in installed power, which assumed a broad international recognition of our know-how, as well as the development of a strategic sector for our industry. The development of renewable technologies is sustainable technologies, but they are also supported technologies, since they generate skilled jobs, both in operation and maintenance. The annulment of the Government's wind competition by Emilio Pérez Touriño was one of the first battles of the People's Party in the 2009 autonomic campaign led by Mr.Núñez Feijóo — he did not give his head because it is true — making a huge media noise — as we have been accustomed to, on the other hand — and without taking into account the warnings about the legal insecurity that he assumed such annulment: the possibility of demands and millionaire compensations, the loss of millions of euros of investment in our country and the loss of leadership in the sector. But Mr. Nuñez Feijóo gave him the same and shot forward. Thus, many of the beneficiary companies claimed compensation, and the Galician High Court of Justice ruled that they had the right to do so. After that distribution of megawatts was canceled, they would charge for the processing and design costs of those parks that never got to be confirmed, and they were winning trials until they added millions of euros of compensation that they had to pay for the Galician Board; that is, we had to pay all of them. The Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia has legally agreed to regulate the sector carried out by the Executive presided over by Emilio Pérez Touriño, and the same body has declared illegal the annulment made by the Bipartite in a judgment ratified by the Supreme himself. Thus, in ten years of People's Party Government, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, more than 80% of jobs in windmills in Galicia were lost in addition to losing leadership in windmills. That is, thanks to Mr. Núñez Feijóo's decision and election campaign in 2009, the development of the wind sector in Galicia has been crippled in our country, where we could continue to be leaders. Look, wind energy in its renewable condition, that is, in its energy condition from an inexhaustible source, and in attention to its clean character for not producing polluting effects to the atmosphere, is an asset that must be driven from public authorities. But this doesn't mean that its deployment is totally harmless, since these aero-geor installations are used, loads for the environment, for the natural environment, for the landscape and for the habitat in which they are located; a visual impact and noise produced by these aero-geor plants, and an impact also by the infrastructures they require, such as access roads and evacuation lines, so again, the empowerment of a business sector that generates wealth and employment in our economy has to be accompanied by social benefits for the population where these parks situate that compensate part of the impacts caused in its environment. That is why we Socialists agree that a new wind sector plan of Galicia should be addressed as soon as possible. It should be recalled that what is currently the year 1997. But a plan has to be participatory, where the sector has been consulted, local administrations, universities, associations with an impact on matters and the ESC. I am open to all citizenship, so that you can argue with those considerations that you think are appropriate. Therefore, a new model that respects environmental, landscaping and heritage values; which includes a social return from the exploitation of resources through compensation for areas where parks are located; which also includes compensation for landowners concerned; which promotes distributed generation and self-consumption; and which includes the public participation of the Autonomous Administration and the municipalities. We are going to vote in favour of this GNP, even though we are going to ask for a point vote, since at the first point we are entirely in agreement, but in the second point we believe that introducing that deadline would lead us to a temporary period of about two years and that it would be quite questionable as to its legal security. For me, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u239	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u240	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo and the opposition gentlemen, do you know why the installation of renewable energies has been stopped, not here in Galicia, but throughout Spain? do you know why? Because you managed to generate a tariff deficit, Your Honor, of 30 billion euros that we still pay today, for 25 years. That was the main reason why renewable energies were paralysed: inadequate premiums at times when each megawatt cost around 500 euros. Please, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, I thank you for coming here and having to defend the paper, but it's not, look, it's not. Mr. Sánchez, the truth is that you, the former Tide or the Left Joint Group, are proposing an amendment to the wind sector is in trouble, because you don't want wind farms in Galicia. Any park that tries to install here, a platform. They don't want to be installed. It's just a joke, really! I'm sorry for the word. I know you're excited about the suspension of the Iribio Serra Park, that park you authorized in 2007, Your Honor. I, in fact, think they're forgotten. You said in the past that when the environmental statement was approved in 2005, it was already Nature Network. You lied, Mr. Sánchez, that's falsehood and you know it. He said it here in the past. It wasn't Nature at that time, so you gave permission to that park in 2007, I understand, because otherwise it would be much more serious. Look, Iribio's wind farm is a project authorized in 2007 by the Bipartite that has an administrative authorization, granted and not expired, that the Union cannot contravene. The Union at all times, ladies and gentlemen, is monitoring compliance with all the requirements laid down, both in the declaration of environmental impact and in the administrative resolutions themselves. Mr. President, it's impossible to speak like that. [[Strong murmurers.]] And it's working on the project with all its rigor and all its legal, environmental and urban guarantees. That's the only target. The board, ladies and gentlemen, is currently studying and evaluating the car before making any final decision. And, of course, Mr. Sánchez, you've already been informed of the construction company. Look, ladies and gentlemen, Galicia clearly bets on renewable energies, and specifically on wind energy, because it's playing a prominent role in creating wealth and employment. We all know here, ladies and gentlemen, what is your energy model, which is to close companies. They're closing Alcoa, closing The Bridges... installing wind turbines for cooperatives, he says. So wind turbines, you see, have environmental impact, if they're installed by cooperatives, they're worth it; if they're installed by private companies, they're not worth it. Mr. Sánchez, they are not serious, really, they present an initiative loaded with inconsistencies. They say here that we do not comply with European directives, and, among other things, they advocate for freedom of the market. You come here and based on no criteria reject projects. You're the ones who don't want to keep the law, Mr. Sánchez. You want to ban any project, even if you obey the law, because you don't like it, because you install private companies. But small entertainment has with private companies, it's unsustainable! Look, we accept this car, of course we accept it, we do not do as you do, who do not accept the judgments. This is a cautious suspension, but you do not accept the judgments. You, Mr. Sánchez and the gentlemen of the BNG, stand in front of the banners to claim that there are political prisoners and they leave. They do not accept the judgment of the trial, Your Honor. Please! [[Murmurs.]] We respect the judgments, Mr. Sánchez. [[Applause]] They put forward a proposal here praising the energy management of other countries, such as Denmark or Germany. It's always better outside! You don't give the data, but I'll give it to you. Galicia is the second largest-renewable community in Spain. 66% of the energy generated in Galicia is originally renewable, and 86% of the energy consumed, too, far above European targets, Mr. Sánchez. That's what you forgot to say. If you want to look at the German energy transition, look at the energy transition of the thermal power plants there. They don't want to close them now, they have a long term to close them. Look at that. If you like, we remember that awful wind competition, because I didn't come here to talk about the Bipartite wind contest, but you pulled it out. Look, I'm going to tell you the judgments that cancelled your wind competition. The resolution of the 2007 singular wind farms, 300 megawatts, annulled by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. The 2006 wind competition, 2,325 megawatts. And the 2006 wind farms and business competition for 565 megawatts, ladies and gentlemen. Not to mention what was going on between President Touriño and Vice-President, who on two occasions — said by his President, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo, who is now gone — would cease the Industrial Counsellor because of the disloyalty he did with all this, gentlemen. Look, I wasn't going to talk about this, but it's that, of course, they're causing us like this... right now, in our community, despite those who care -- and you're very sorry -- 20 wind farms are being installed, with a power of 480 megawatts and an investment of 564 million euros. Ladies and gentlemen, the development of clean energy is undoubtedly due to the fulfilment of legality and all guarantees on the part of projects.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u241	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u242	I insist, the Union will not grant any wind leave that does not achieve absolute environmental compatibility and total territorial and social integration. That is our position, which hardly, Mr. Sánchez, will coincide with yours, and for all this we shall vote against. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u243	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u244	Mrs Novoa, they do everything with all the guarantees, so the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia temporarily suspended, not cautiously, until the environmental impact statement, which was 2005 was updated. You know what that means, don't you? That you put on a shoemaker a statement of obsolete environmental impact and that, when updated to today, it will make the park of the Oribio sawmill unstoppable. And that the prevalence of this use is justified over other uses. We'll see, we'll see how that ends. I've already told you about this, so we'll see. The cacicide you did in the Iribio is very paradigmatic of how you acted in every country with the wind, making favors to your friends. We bet on renewables, that doesn't mean we don't believe that we don't have to do things the way you're doing them, use a resource that's everyone's, the wind, the territory, to make millions to a few corners, many of them foreign. You obviously don't share my model. You bet on a colonial model, it's obvious. I said, we're not in our 90s, it's not the moment of an uncontrolled expansion of the wind. It's time to go to another model of industry development, the development of the technology that is being used. Look, we're going to see the model of countries that I think are more advanced than ours. Basquedi, Iberdrola, do you know how many megawatts has Iberdrola installed in Galicia? It has 2,199 megawatts. Do you know how many megawatts has Iberdrola installed in Basquedi? It's 268, 268! And they don't have thermal power stations. They don't have thermal power stations because they decided to close the last one in 2014, with a relocation plan and industrial alternatives in the same region. Without any kind of drama, because things change, and the secret is not to cling to the past, but to have governments that are able to prepare countries for that change. That's what happens to you. So, do you prefer, a company like Iberdrola, who has quality jobs in Euskadi to develop the technology that applies in Galicia, Latin America, etc. or have to support the impacts of an installation here without getting any benefit? That's what we're thinking here. I'm not talking about the fact that in Europe they are better or worse, or that in Euskadi they are worse or better, now well, what we have to do is how the wind has developed in those countries that I mentioned and how it has developed in Galicia. Of course people are involved, of course they are! And you said, if people participate, is the impact smaller? Well, sometimes yes, sometimes yes. Yes, you can read a study that says that the landscape impact of the wind turbines belonging to people is not the same...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u245	About the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u246	...that the windmills that belong to some who come to steal them, because it's subjective. So, of course it is, of course it is! Well, I'm done. So your model is clear: keep looting the country, keep looting the country. Our model is to try to make this resource useful for creating wealth in this country. And on the amendments, we accept them all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u247	Both of you? There are two. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the action to be taken by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made to the Central Government in relation to the debt owed to Galicia, the regulations on financial stability and the constitutional reform of 2011 which supports it, as well as the negotiation of a new model of autonomous financing
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u248	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u249	Thank you, Mr. President. I hope that this non-amendment is a symptom that there will be unanimity with regard to this initiative that we bring from the Galician Nationalist Block, which basically looks for two issues that seem relevant to us and which also seem unacceptable to us. First, give a powerful answer to the state, claiming once and for all, through the judicial channels, to the last euro of what Galicia owes it. Because it's true that 300 million euros are less than 700 million euros, but it's an important count, and it's, above all, a question of dignity as a country, and in concrete terms, you can assume, by setting an example, the entire departure of section 32 of job promotion and labour market institutions, so that we can get an idea of what these counts mean. Secondly, we also seek to open the door, once again, to solve problems that are structural, underlying problems, because it is also necessary to put black on white that the problem we live in these months was not the only symptom of irrelevance and little utility for this country of state forces when it comes to defending our interests, but it is also a symptom of a structural problem, of the problem that we have of the economic ill relationship with the state, and a symptom of something that is also difficult to solve, but which I believe we will solve in the coming months, which is the lack of political weight that the Government of Galician Union has at the moment in the state, and also its lack of strength. As the honourable Members know — because we must also look at how we came to this point — yesterday the Permanent Deputies of Congress and Members gave green light to the release of nothing more and nothing less than EUR 4,862 million for the autonomous communities and almost 1,000 for the local authorities. So for us to make an idea, that's basically half the budget of the Galician Union, so it's a quantity that for the state is no longer going, but that, of course, for the others is important and significant. It's important to remember the chain of facts or the chain of incompetence that led us to this situation as well. We have reached this point with a resolution that since the BNG it seems to us to be partial and that it is unsatisfactory, after a long voodoo between the Group of Galicia and the State, between the People's Party and the Socialist Party, that we have to review briefly to point out some inconsistencies which we think we should not repeat again, because the state is not innocent, but, of course, the history of the Board of Galicia also leaves much to be desired on this issue. If we look at what is called the cursed hemerotheca, we can remember how in 2016, for example, when Mr. Mariano Rajoy, Mr. Rajoy, being a Montoro minister, did not facilitate the ceiling of expenditure or the delivery figures to the account of many communities. I didn't do it because there were no budgets, because they were in minority after the June 2016 elections and because they were also using this issue as blackmail. Interestingly, fate wanted him to whom he was then counsellor in Andalusia and now minister seemed a scandal to him. Then they didn't mind doing the same thing when it touched them, but it must also be remembered that at that time Galician Union, in the middle of the electoral campaign of the Greek elections, what it practiced was the procession of the little ones, not being heard to protest, not being heard to put this issue in the media agenda. Again, we see that there are actually quite a few points in common between the two speeches. But, of course, it must also be acknowledged that in recent months the events that have come from the Central Government — we have to say it frankly — were quite amazing. When we asked the 3rd Commission about this issue to the Director General, we made the joke that they seemed to have a Popular Party infiltrate in the ministry, but the truth is, given the issues that were happening, it really seemed that, because the Socialist Party was making it quite easy for the Galician People's Party to protest. In any case, during these vodevil months, if we saw occurrences from the central government, we also saw occurrences from the Galician Union, because the fact is that there was a unanimous mandate from this Parliament to demand that 700 million euro counties. We, in that respect, agreed with what they said from the ranks of the People's Party in many respects, but not, of course, with its strategy, which was also failed, because at this point, several months later, we don't have all the counts that are due to Galicia, and that's because they basically devoted themselves to doing two things: besides electoralism, crying through corners and not taking firm steps to be taken seriously by the central government. Today we propose is a firm step towards that, because, of course, to charge at the height of September still a legal report to the services of the Galician Union and then to keep it in a drawer, it does not seem to be the most effective way they took us seriously, gentlemen of the People's Party. Therefore, because this work is done, because we propose to take one step further, to put it on the table, and, of course, to establish the appropriate judicial measures for this to be resolved. Of course, it seems to us that it would be a step forward because at this time some were waiting for the election to arrive in order to carry out an election campaign with this, because at the end the resolution didn't seem so complicated, they didn't have to discover the powder or have to invent anything from the other world, and others were also waiting for the arrival of the polls to continue having an argument on the table and while not talking about other problems of the Greeks and the Greeks. At that time, of course, we also saw all kinds of innovations on the part of the Galician Union; even the president of the Galician Union stated in this Chamber a question to the president that he had drawn up a decree of law — that his work as president of the Galician Union had not reached him and that he was able to draw up a decree of law. Of course, on the part of BNG we're asking for Article 9 and we're still waiting, but in any case, we understand that this epistollary strategy with the state is failing and that we have to take a step forward. And we ask ourselves, why not file this legal remedy? The truth is that we have a suspicion, or more than two: on one side, because we imagine that they didn't give you permission in Madrid, and so did Mr. Casado. And he told them that this was a mess, too, and that it is better that they didn't go to the courts; or else they're afraid, that they won't have to have the Government of the State -- let's hope it doesn't -- and that then they have to get rid of their own words when they're the ones who take the hair this way to this country again, as they've already done. But we also suspect that they are equally not so convinced that they are right in all respects, for example, in particular, with that tale that we are supposed to receive because we have been advanced students of Montoro and the doctrine of deficit. Because -- we have said it here on other occasions -- that was really a single Rajoy government strategy, and exclusively so that its accomplished barons wouldn't get angry. But we know that there really is no consistency in the legal or political framework for us to receive that, and then the balance is quite negative. We had to tighten our belt and be us from here who have enriched that state deficit in an absolutely unfair way, and of course we're not going to receive anything in return, when what we have are those cut-off elements in our public services, as it was super exemplified with the matter of health in the debate that we had this morning. In any case, we want to point out today also with this initiative a fundamental question, because at the end of this 700 million controversy, even if it ends well as soon as possible, it does not solve the underlying problems. It does not resolve fundamental issues as this system of financing is absolutely unfair to our country. We have to remember here again that this reform has been pending since 2014 and not only the Galician People's Party and the Galician Union did not have the slightest haste, but it was Feijó who accepted the funding framework that we have vigilante and who regulates these deliveries. So the question we have to ask ourselves is: with another funding system, did we have this problem?, and the answer is "no." And we have other examples. We don't see those and the navarres concerned, for example, about the issue of deliveries to account, because they don't have this problem, because they have another economic relationship with the state. We therefore understand that, regardless of this specific damage, there are issues to discuss and put on the table, such as the financing system and how it is to overcome that deficit framework. And the question that we leave on the table is: at the door of an economic crisis again, with signs of slowing down the very serious economy, will we allow ourselves to be again who hold our belt while others carry it so badly? Of course, we don't think so. So today we are proposing a number of clear questions that would be positive for our country. First of all, to establish such measures from the legal point of view to claim everything that is in this country, to do so forcefully and to send a message to the Government of Madrid that, passing by, this country does not get its hair. And secondly, to demand another type of debt with our country, such as those 688 million in terms of dependency, that investment plan pending with respect to infrastructures, and also to take a step forward in the derogation from that regulation of financial stability and negotiate another financing system in which, of course, we from the Nationalist Block in Galicia continue to insist: we defend a Greek farm. We offer in the past debate of the state of the nation the possibility of opening a presentation in this chamber to discuss this, and the majority group did not want to. We hope that then with this initiative you can open another starting point not to be here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u250	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u251	...after the election campaign, again with the same problems, because the causes will still be the same. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u252	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u253	Good morning again, gentlemen. With regard to this issue, since En Marea, we have on many occasions denounced the use of support that was being made of the problem of the financing of autonomous communities in situations of government in function. We say this about the Socialist Party with the abuse it has been doing during this time, which is revealed in the fact of what has just been realized, of the approval of that release to just three weeks from an electoral process. It is an abuse that was made in addition to the instruments, to start with the State's own Counsel, which was first put in her mouth some words that were words of alleged oral reports, which were then translated in writing to make that claim black on white, which was then asked for a correction to be able to make this book with an electoral character, once it was confirmed that there was electoral repetition. Therefore, an absolutely pure use of State institutions and an absolutely inappropriate electoral use — in our opinion — of the economic resources that are necessary for the State to function. Because the Autonomous Community has assumed areas of competence which make the welfare state primarily free by the benefits emanating from the Autonomous Community as a result also of a complex financing system, as corresponds to the federal state in which we live. An electoral situation that was accompanied by a People's Party, which wakes up from Santa Barbara when it falls, and that assumes this position now and completely forgets itself in 2018 when Montoro was in the same situation as the Government of the Socialist Party. So an exchange of roles, an exchange of papers, just to show two things: an electoralist use and not a willingness to fix the situation. We think that this situation requires a structural solution, and structural means that it does not depend on the specific case and on the concrete situation and on which is the correlation of forces at every moment, but rather it is forever, and not depoliticized but if not partisan, that is, on which side is the concrete party that is governing; that is, a definitive solution. The current situation in the state is increasingly common in the last five years in Spanish politics, and if we see what European policy trends are, we see what will happen in the coming years. The two-party scenarios have ended, there's a multiparty scenario, and where this has to be accompanied by a culture of pact that so far seems not yet sufficiently settled, at least in Spanish politics, for these purposes. And, therefore, progress towards that will require in the short term and in the medium term probably more or less dilated periods of government in functions. So if there is a problem of constitutional functioning, because a functioning government situation prevents the normal flow of funding so that the State can act normally and develop its constitutionally recognized benefits, what will have to do will be legal reforms to prevent this from happening. For that reason, In Marea put on the table in the political debate a proposal that for us is definitive, which is the amendment of the law of the Government of the State so that in the powers of a government in functions it can respond to these types of situations, so that the question does not remain simply on the basis of the electoral calculation of whether there will be an electoral repetition or not or how it will be solved, or threats, pressures or blackmails — we call it so too by its name — so that governments or most under this threat are formed. Well, in order to get all that out of the support debate, what is needed is structural reform, because the state of autonomy is a state that works so structurally, and autonomy cannot be subject to the absence of the central government or that this government is in function. Because the normal functioning of the State of autonomy cannot be conditioned by this either at an economic level, because behind the economic level is the level of the guarantee of the State of performance and the State of social security. That's why we demand two things. First of all, a political position of country. That's why we asked the popular majority to call for an extraordinary and monographic plenary to be able to set a position — we would support that call— where everyone could come up with a proposal and if they could set a position not quite as a government, because this is not a government issue, it's a whole running problem of Autonomy and therefore requires a country position. And secondly, our political solution, which is a definitive legal reform. We think that going to the judicial remedy can be worth two ways. First of all, to draw political attention and, at best, to solve this case, but it would not solve future cases. That's why we go further and propose that reform that we're already working on in this chamber. In any case, we will support this proposal. The second point, too, has to do with the negotiation of the best conditions of our funding. Also the third point, as far as political value is concerned, even knowing that the Government has no competence to derogate from the regulation on financial stability or much less from the Government to repeal a constitutional reform that took place in 2011, but as a political position we do support it. And finally, with regard to the financing model that they propose in paragraph four, they sort of sort out the theme of the economic concert and we can agree on many of the things that are formulated at this fourth point, although we disagree specifically on the subject of the convention. And we would therefore ask you to vote on points so that you can point to the part in this particular paragraph in relation to the others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u254	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Joint Left Group, Mrs. Torregrosa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u255	Thank you very much, President. Good morning to all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, after the Council of Ministers of 11 October approved the liberalization of deliveries on account of the system of self-financing pending delivery to the autonomous communities, the initiative presented today by the BNG in this parliament might seem to be extemporaneous. But it's not at all, because the release of deliveries to account doesn't solve the underlying problem. The central government's political inability to approve general government budgets for the year 2019 has raised a design problem that has already been denouncing long-standing financial system scholars: the limited transparency of the system in the calculation of some of its updating variables and especially the failure of automation in those updates. It cannot be that the institutional scheme of funding for administrations which manage most of the services provided directly to citizenship depends on parliamentary arithmetic in order to be able to approve budgets at a given time. The central government's own contradictions on this issue, its change of position on the march towards the release of deliveries to account in the face of pressure from autonomous communities, points out the need to reform the system to provide it with greater transparency and stability. Following Royal Decree 13/2019 of 11 October, which allows the payment of 334 million of the amounts of the financing system owed to Galicia, this amount obviously does not coincide with the claims of all the amounts claimed by the Government of Greece. On the one hand, there are EUR 200 million in this difference, according to the calculations of the Joint Government itself, which have to do with the problem generated by the previous PP government with the amendment to the VAT Regulation in 2017. On the other hand, EUR 170 million, the austerity award now claimed by the Government of Feijóo for being the champion of cuts during the worst moments of the crisis. I don't know if the legal route proposed by the BNG would be the most effective one to claim these differences. Some communities like Catalonia have already done so. For our group, we believe it would be more reasonable to seek consensus within the Tax and Financial Policy Council of the autonomous communities, which has this purpose and which is where differences on the financing system should be resolved. We are convinced that in that forum there will be a solution to the 2017 VE problem. Different is the case of the austerity award, because, among other things, it is not part of any rule established in the financing system, beyond a verbal agreement, of an unquantified promise from the Ministry of the House of the Montoro with the President of the Board. From our group, the Joint Left Group, we have long claimed the derogation from the institutional regulatory framework designed to impose and perpetuate the ideological option of austericity, elevated to the rank of constitutional principle with the express amendment of article 135 of the Spanish Constitution by agreement between the People's Party and the Socialist Party, to prioritize the payment of debt over any other public service or social necessity. The Budget Stability Act, the spending ceiling mechanisms and the spending rule, designed to reduce the public sector's weight in the economy, have served only to establish the path of cuts and to transfer the cost of the crisis to workers and workers, generally to people with less resources and more dependent on public systems and social protection. We also agreed on the need to improve the financing of the Dependency Act, absolutely insufficient to meet the real needs of an increasingly ageing population. By the way, I want to remember here, because we are, that the Board is taking more than two years to assess the recognition and degree of dependence of the people who ask for it. Of course, at the first point, we call for a more territorially balanced distribution of State investments, both at the stage of the preparation of budgets and at the stage of execution. We also believe that it is necessary to curb the progressive fall that has been experiencing the Interterritorial Compensation Fund in recent years, which particularly harms our country. Third. Reforming the system of self-financing is essential and urgent. And to conclude, I would like to remind you that, after the debate on the state of autonomy, this parliament has adopted a motion for a resolution from the Joint Left Group that, in addition to urging the Government of the United Nations to call for the urgent call of the Tax and Financial Policy Council of the Autonomous Communities to resolve the issue of the amounts allocated to Galicia and also establishing an automatic mechanism for the updating of the system of settlement of deliveries to the account which is not dependent on the will of the Central Government, we said that this should be the first step in the urgent modification of the current system of autonomous financing, claiming a new system that guarantees Galicia's financial adequacy, a higher degree of financial autonomy, greater regulatory capacity on the tax yields and compliance with the principle of institutional loyalty. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u256	Thank you, Mrs. Torregrosa. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u257	Good morning to all of you. For I am going — and rightly — to disagree with the BNG initiative and some of the interventions that preceded me. Indeed, it was said that it was partially extemporaneous. I agree, especially as far as deliveries are concerned. Late, but it's just been solved by the Congress of Deputies, who passed the decree yesterday. So in the next few days, these resources will reach the joint's ark. But as far as the situation is concerned, let me refer mainly to the complaint of the EVI, because what is asked is not consistent with the current situation, not because this situation should not be resolved, but because precisely what motivates the situation is compliance with existing legal rules. So we can't order by legal procedure to comply with the law. This doesn't make any sense at all. And, as you just remembered, where does this come from? For without modifying the autonomous financing system of 2009, if it is modified, by two real decrees in 2016 and then in 2017, being Mr. Montoro Minister and Mr. Rajoy President, the EVE winding up system, introducing the immediate information system, which has made things easier for many companies, but it ended up causing, by a change at the time the companies have for their liquidation, that one of the months had passed the following year and therefore in 2017 instead of twelve months we have eleven and in the 2017 liquidation, which is in 2019, instead of twelve months we have eleven. From that year on it is regularized, but this is the result of a legal amendment and therefore we cannot legally request that something which is legally foreseen be breached. What is needed is to modify these laws, which was what I was doing to the ministry through the budgets of the Union, by modifying these real decrees, and then I would have to make an exception in the system of self-financing, which was no longer necessary because the budgets were not approved. Indeed, at the time when Mr Montoro makes these decrees, the Council of State has made a report in favour of this amendment; it is the President of Mr Romey Beccaría. If I were the PP, at this moment I would say, "Oh, Mr. Romay Beccaría! No, no, I'm sure he did his job well too. What he didn't do so well was already the Council of Galicia, because at that time he didn't argue, he argued about some technical aspect of the 2017 decree in relation to the tax on heritage transmissions but not about this one. So the People's Party in Madrid creates the problem, then votes against budgets for 2019, which would allow them to start solving the problem, and now, at the same time, two years later, because it poses an offensive against this situation. Well, the question is a little surprising. In relation to the other aspects of BNG, as I have two minutes, let me just say it's BNG's maximum program. I understand, but we can't share it. We know that membership of the European Union is a great value that Galicia has, for many years, means four hundred or five million euros, it also means stability, low interest rates and many other things, apart from what it means in terms of momentum for legislation, for example in relation to climate change. But that also has obligations and the obligations are to carry us well financially. I mean, we can't go into deficit and then ask them to rescue us, we can't have an excessive debt and then ask them to rescue us, we have to undergo discipline. That this discipline can be improved? Yes, I've been defending him here for a long time, but it can get better, it can't be laminated. And, of course, something similar in relation to the economic concert. The economic concert, Mrs Presas, applied to Galicia, would make us still dependent on injecting funds from the Central Government, because, unlike what happens in the Basque Country or Navarre, we would have a positive coupon that would have to be delivered by the Central State. We would still have that same financial dependence and, if it were generalized, because we would have a serious breach in our public archives. The current system not only corresponds to our interests and values. We prefer common solidarity, such as that which we have today, equality, that not a system that would cause more inequality, it would be more insolidary, but yes, it would allow us to have much more autonomy, yes, but I don't think it doesn't correspond to what most Greeks want either. In this sense, with cordiality, we shall vote against this non-law proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u258	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u259	I'm also going to speak cordially, and I'm also going to vote that no. [[Applause]] In the explanatory statement of the non-legislation proposal I agree with two things that the Block says. The first is that, indeed, the political instability of Madrid is moving problems to Galicia. By the way, explain later to your partner that that's what that means, precisely, a metaphor, I don't know if very fortunate, about the fog in Pedraphyta. Secondly, I agree that it would be good if there were unanimity. I am only partially satisfied because, as you know, this subject is discussed on July 9, and we achieve unanimity except for the Socialist Party, which abstained on this issue. I disagree, on the contrary, the People's Group disagrees with the evaluation that you make of the system of financing for the autonomous communities of the common regime, and of course I also disagree with what you say about stability. And I'm going to argue with the four points that you bring us today in the non-law proposition, on the other hand. First, about the concert. The regime's especially. He was already told by the socialist spokesman, I subscribe to what he said, and remind him that we are against not only because it is contrary to Galicia's interests and not the amount, which I personally accept as good, that of the one billion, in the work that professors Lake Peñas and Fernández Leicega did. But there's a deeper reason, which has to do with tax processes. Tax processes, which generate inequalities and inequities, take place at a very marked moment, which takes place in a geographic space. And the doctrine of the economic theory of the entire public estate is saying that it is in that field where the market works that generates the inequalities where they must be corrected through a redistributive tax system both through income and through expenditure. So the very conception of what is a system in a social market economy requires that redistribution be done on that scale, on the Spanish scale, which is that of economy on which we are inserted. But even I would go more: I would ask for more redistribution on the European scale too, just the opposite of what a system like what you demand. We certainly are not in favour of the rich taking advantage of this. The community that would most benefit from its proposal is Madrid, much more than the Basque Country and that Navarra, and, of course, we are against breaking up with this principle of solidarity and equity, benefiting Madrid or benefiting the Basque Country of course. And, of course, we are also against, precisely for that reason, all those movements of wealthy autonomous communities that seek independence among other things to appropriate themselves to the common dividend that generates a much wider market. The third point is about stability. I'm also in favour of stability, because it's getting countries that had a lot of problems, including Spain, which has come with 11% of public deficits and with the possibility of closing their markets. So, there we would have the need to make uncommon cuts, because it's also working. The left is often an example of how the Portuguese economy works, precisely one of the rescued economies that is set up in Europe as an example of a good disciple in complying with the rules of fiscal stability. So I think it's also a bad idea to make those reforms that you propose. On the subject of investments, I just wanted to say that this is the first time that a government assumes the change of government and recognizes that the works are working with the planned investments, particularly those of AVE. So there may be a delay in the execution of these budgets, but that doesn't mean you're owed what wasn't executed in an exercise, but yes in the next one, to the autonomous community. Finally, delivery to account. They arrive late — here it is said — and they arrive incomplete. We're missing 170 million of compensation and, above all, 200 of the EVV. The minister told the advisor to put them in the budgets in July 2018 because he was going to fix this problem generated by a change in the VE payment system. In July 2019 Airef reports that he is not going to do so and that this means 0.2% improvement in compliance with government deficit targets and therefore a 0.2% deficit problem for autonomous communities in the same exercise. Today we see the press, which says how the Socialist Government is fulfilling its deficit targets and we understand why they're doing this. What's the matter is we don't share it. They are depriving us of spending capacity in welfare in exchange for failing to meet a little less deficit targets. And you present the possibility of making an appeal. They told him how much Catalonia has introduced him. If we had done the same thing, it would turn out that we would now be withdrawing the resource or asking for a modification of the resource, because it turns out that a portion of that debt has already been paid. So it wouldn't make much sense. Secondly, the exercise is not finished. So continuing to push politically makes sense until the exercise is over. It is not excluded that the resource is presented, but it is certainly much faster, as we have just seen with the deliveries to the account, if it is finally paid to the autonomous communities what they are owed, in the case of Galicia 200 million EVV. Finally, I just want to say that it's good in these matters for coherence. It's not because of participation in the VAT only in autonomous communities, it's also because of the municipalities and the deputies. As far as I know, the Block governs some deputies and some municipalities in Galicia and, as far as I know, none of them have presented a resource for the delivery of the bill, the participation in the VAT that is due to the municipalities as well, be paid to them. Therefore, I would ask for some coherence also in this sense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u260	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u261	I want to finish, Mr. President, just with a question. In the debate of the state of Autonomy I said that one of the problems that was to fail to comply with the regulations and not deliver the deliveries to the account that they were due to lead to giving to those who want to break the system. Today we have an example. I believe that, for all these reasons, it is sufficient for the People's Group to vote but not for this non-law proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u262	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u263	Thank you, Mr. President. As a matter of advance, less ill, Mr. Puy. I had faith that you had read the budgets of the board of Galicia, because I had gone out for a moment, but I knew when my companion Bará mentioned that fog in Pedrafita, here a circus was armed by his bench as if we had come to declare independence; then, at last, less bad than anyone from that bench has read the budgets. In any case, the problem is that you, with that isolated continent metaphor, seem to want to take us somewhere else. In any case, that's what we have to talk about these weeks. Here we seem to see this great coalition that does not like Mr. Casado, but it seems they have reached a consensus point thanks to the Nationalist Block of Wales in the direction of the vote between the People's Party and the Socialist Party. We, of course, can understand some discrepancies, some nuances. Amendments could also have been tabled on particular points and there was no such will on the part of the two negationist groups. Of course, we will make it easier for other groups to vote points. But, of course, we don't share that strategy has to be not to move, that's a little what's being put on the table with the issues that came out here. And I'll review some briefly. The question of the effectiveness of the complaint has repeatedly emerged. It's a very simple question for us. It's like when you don't get paid at work. On the first day you'll talk to your boss to ask him kindly; the second one too; but just like the third one you'll blow on the table and file a complaint; it's very likely that he'll end up paying you before that complaint prospers. So that's a little bit of what we put on the table: to send it to the central government, to whoever is from 10 November, a clear sign that this country is not getting its hair, and there are no demagogics like those that have been done here with the councils and the deputies. Well, if you like, we invite the municipalities and the deputies to join in this judicial complaint from the Galician Union, but, man, look at the figures before. You know that the state owes all the municipalities and deputies of the state almost the same counties it owes us. So we're not talking about the same degree of gravity. In any case, when you put that on the table, as happened at the House of Ourense, we vote in favour of claiming, of course, that debt also to the local authorities, we have no problems. It was also said that it was a partially extemporaneous matter by several voices. Man, I don't know. I know that everyone is in the campaign and that there are those who are in Madrid's head before Galicia, but to say in the Greek Parliament that when resources are owed to this community partly is extemporaneous to us if it seems to us, more than extemporaneous, a little out of focus, and, of course, we understand that, as soon as all these accounts are not paid to our community, of course, all the alternatives that can be explored, from the politician to the judiciary, are fully vigilant. Finally — which I am running out of time — with regard to the economic concert, we have discussed it on many occasions. We are aware of the political differences and that our current position is not the majority position, but, in any case, we discuss it, we make an amendment in voice, we resume that proposal that BNG made in the debate of the nation's state to sit down and discuss it often, because, of course, the problem is that if we open that frame, if we sit down and if we get to discuss ourselves often, there's not that argument that we're not right, a half-minute replica, and we see the numbers by the often, and we see that there's more reason than you think. And, therefore, we are willing to work in that forum and we are willing too — and we are all aware of political responsibility — to which, regardless of whether it progresses in that proposal or not, when we have to debate as a country that improvements would also fit even within the framework of the common regime, we will do so...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u264	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u265	...because we have that loyalty, that seriousness with the country. The question is whether others are also willing to move their framework and debate serious proposals for this country. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Cumulative discussion of non-law proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u266	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. We are now debating, in a cumulative way, three non-legislative proposals. One is the Joint Parliamentary Group, another is the Socialist Parliamentary Group and one is the People's Parliamentary Group. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Mixto, at the initiative of Mr Francisco Casal Vidal and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece for the development of the Sustainable Transition Map of Galicia (CLEW-Galicia) G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made to the central government in relation to Endesa's decision to encourage the discontinuity of production in the thermal power plant of the bridges G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and 14 other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the energy policy that is following, the adoption of measures to ensure the operation of the thermal power plant of the Bridges of García Rodríguez until 2045 and the launch of the Strategy of Just Transition of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u267	There are amendments. There's an amendment to the Nationalist Block Galego to the Socialist Parliamentary Group. There are amendments by the Group of the European People's Parliamentary Group and the Galego Nationalist Block. And there are amendments to the Group of the Socialists, the Mixed Group and the Nationalist Block of Wales and also a self-amendment to that of the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u268	First of all, you have the floor, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u269	These proposals are piled up even though the goal is almost contradictory. The People's Party intends to keep burning coal; the Socialist Party says: we're going to burn coal for a while; and we're just thinking the opposite; then, of course, accumulation doesn't make much sense. The policies that are taking place in Galicia and which are clearly revealed in its initiative are of absolute irresponsibility to global climate emergency and, above all, — and this is more serious — they deceive citizenship, because Galicia's future is not burning coal from Indonesia or South Africa, the future is in the ecological and energy transition, and this is evidence that it seems a lie that there are people who want to hide it at this time. And it seems that here, in the proposals, the only thing behind it is to defend the interests of the big electricians, because then I'm going to tell them what the People's Party means. And here we have to think more about the citizenship of the Bridges, Cerceda, Meirama and the affected neighborhoods and throughout Galicia and also — as not! — our children and also our grandchildren and great-grandchildren. That's what we should think about. Because the proposals to give tax incentives to Contaminate Endesa, which is what is proposed by removing the green penny — which, in addition, does not fix anything; it means two euros and it peaks for megawatt; this does not solve the problem to Enel or Endesa — in addition, goes against all the lines of work and initiatives that will start the European Union and that are already launching most European countries. Then pay him incentives for capacity, i.e. pay Endesa for being stopped. How many years are you going to be standing by paying for it and how these Endesa workers benefit, in which the workers of the auxiliaries benefit — since if the power station is stopped there is nothing to keep — and in which it benefits the transporters — since if the power station is stopped there is no coal to transport? And then the thing was derived, the occurrences began, that of the forest biomass or the residues of the olive oil. And let's go to reality. Those are occurrences, and everybody knows that, the same ones that a month ago were saying that now they're saying that this is unfeasible. Well, what the People's Party proposes and what the Socialist Party partially proposes is that the power plant is called in a way: it's called between 80 and 150 million euros a year to pay Endesa to keep it around 100 days of exploitation a year, 3,500 gigavatis/hour, i.e. pay Endesa 150 million euros a year to function less than a third of a year. That's the alternative. We thought those 150 million euros a year could have much better fate. Then it's also spoken -- because it's very easy -- of a reference, they found a reference. There's a British coal thermal power plant, Drax's, which has transformed, but, of course, seven years ago, biomass. Do you know how much the British state pays for that power station working? Because, of course, there's a problem that we don't have; here we have 100,000 megawatts installed when you need 40,000 at the top, i.e., there's more than enough capacity in combined gas cycles; there's not, there the power plant had to work. So, do you know what this power plant is called to work, just like it would happen at the Bridges? It's called 2.5 million euros a day that the British Government pays to the power plant operating at Drax's power plant and, in addition, after subsidizing the 800 million euros that it cost to transform the boilers of that power plant. That the bridges work with biomass would burn between 7 and 10 million tons per year of biomass. If we've done this, in four years we've completely deforested Galicia. I mean, I'm saying so you can see the level of occurrence. A power plant like Drax's, in addition to this huge public and environmental cost, has a very short future, except that it is allowed to forest half the world, because they've already finished with everything they could catch in Britain, now they're deforestation, it seems, the whole state of Virginia, which is from where they're sent the pellets; now they're going to pass to South Africa. As long as it's still working, there won't be any Amazons left. And I say: wouldn't it be better to spend all this money in the real future for The Bridges, but starting right away, why is it possible? It's not the medium term, it's already. And this isn't happening. The whole changing kilometre that I presented to both the People's Party proposal and the Socialist Party's proposal is not an occurrence, that's what was done, exactly the same -- nothing, nothing creative -- in a region of France totally similar to the Bridges. Well, after six years of implementing all these policies, they now have three times more jobs, much more qualified and much more paid. Well, there's the proof, and all with European help, of the French State. That's why we have to boost all the ways to get that funding that's going to be massive for the ecological transition and to dynamize the affected regions negatively, transforming this threat into a great opportunity for the future. And that starts on January 1st, 2021, there's very little left. That's why we have to start now, and the first is to plan what to do. And what are twenty-eight European regions already doing? They've been on that for two years. Well develop what is called the sustainable transition maps, the CLEWs (by climate, land, energy and water, in their initials in English). And they're very transverse documents, not just energy transition, not just ecological transition, it's analyzing all human activities, they're industrial, extractive, agribusiness, fisheries, urban, etc., that can affect the environment and then develop strategies to make all these activities more sustainable. In other words, the aid would not only be to see what energy alternatives would be given to the central bridge, they would be alternatives to improving the sustainability of the Ferrol River, so that all agricultural production would be ecological, for all that human activity that affects the environment, which is virtually all: transport, mobility, etc. Well, everything is likely to have some help. Yes, you have to have it well cataloged, you have to see that the rate of impact on sustainability has each of the activities, and all this takes time. It's been a while, but it hasn't been that long. Most of the plans that have been made in the rest of the European regions have developed in one year, and I even have a place where it cost less than a performance by Paris of Girl or Panorama at a party. I say it because there are mayors who like to spend more on these things than making transition maps in their municipalities. So we think we've got to start working now, right now, in nine months. The largest experts in Europe on sustainable transition maps, who are at the University of Santiago de Compostela, are working in several regions of Europe and in several regions of South America. I know you've already contacted them. I encourage you to think about it. I encourage you to put it into action in a very important way. First, we would have to make the general framework, which would be Galicia's sustainable transition map, and then launch two pilot plans, which, for the information I have, could be developed in nine months, both for the macrocommaral of Ferrolterra, The Bridges, Eume and Ortegal as well as for Cerceda, Orders, Lands of Melide and Arzua. I'm saying, in all these macro-comarcas, there are many activities of proximity, of development of own values. All of this is going to come out on these maps and in nine months we could find out what solutions and how much money would be needed to develop it. We think that with those 150 million, and with a lot less, you could develop all this, and that's what would guarantee the future of these districts, and then, by an effect of capillary, the rest of the Galician regions, the whole of the Greek country. Galicia could be a leader on this subject in the Spanish State and could also achieve most of the budgets that will be linked to the sustainable transitional law that I'm sure next year will have to be approved in the Spanish State. We have to be leaders and that's why we have to work now. And to work now, we have to budget it. It's not much money to develop these maps. I'm not telling you to dedicate what you've been dedicated to in some small European region, the 30,000 euros you told me to cost them. Here you will have to provide more budget, but budget fully accessible, assumed. So we hope that in the 2020 budgets it will be envisaged so that in a month now you can be working on this issue, and when the new legislation begins, with the new government that is in the Galician Union, you can implement everything that we can work on these months. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u270	Thank you, Mr. Casal. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u271	Good day again. First of all, I want to express our concern and our empathy for the workers, for the auxiliary companies, for their employees and for the hauliers in the Pontes district who are affected by the business closure of this thermal power plant in Endesa. In view of this, there are two attitudes. There's an attitude of trying to exploit the problem electorally. I think by misdiagnosing him, placing the responsibility where he's not and oriented the actions in a direction that doesn't seem the right direction for us. We think it's a wrong direction, because the problem is not — as if it's said to be active and passive — in a decision by the Government of Spain. I saw no law, no decree, no order, so I had decided to close the thermal power station. And if there is, tell me what it is. Iberdrola closed its power stations in 2017 — Rajoy's government — Naturgy subsequently closed its power stations, first agreeing to Rajoy's government and running it as President Pedro Sánchez. There are three power stations that will continue as of 2020 — the Barrios, Aboño and Soto de la Ribera — in the same framework that we have today because companies so decide. And besides, the integrated national energy and climate plan, which is under treatment, contemplated the continuity of coal to, at least, 2030; and still a residual continuity of 1,300 megawatts as an element of regulation of the energy sector from that moment on. I mean, the early closure of this station is against the plans of the Ministry, against the plans of the Ministry. It creates a problem for the Ministry. The company didn't have permission to go on, but it was going on, it wanted to go on until a moment ago. And from just a few months ago, he made the decision to stop, a business decision, probably because he has high expectations of losses and because continuity has important indirect costs of reputation as well, because investment funds are increasingly environmental activists, which will facilitate the strategy of decarbonization. I mean, it's the company that makes the decision abruptly, suddenly, after investing nearly 200 million euros, not in coal adequacy, but in order to reduce other emissions that were also polluting and that were forced to continue. Make that decision. And I have to say also clearly that for us coal is not the future, it is not the future, it can be a transitional solution. I was first criticized that in our proposal we allowed the continuity of the power plant. Because we want there to be a transition. And transition doesn't mean closing the door, pulling the key and forgetting, but there has to be a transition and, therefore, not yet a future one, we have to go to a plan that will substantially reduce CO2 emissions but at the same time guarantee the energy supply. And that, which is in the Ministry's forecast, led to coal thermal power plants, including the Bridges, operating until 2030. But they also have to commit themselves to a coal solution, because we are concerned about climate change, and we know that progressive decarbonization is one of the main tools for combating climate change. I believe that we must abandon partisan strategies, join a broad-based social and political strategy that seeks a future for The Bridges but goes beyond imported coal and transforms that region into an example of a sustainable economy. And there we need the Galician Union, we need the Galician Union to provide resources for a compensation policy. We ask you to create a supplementary fund — or other administrations, European and central — and to reflect this in the budgets of the year 2020. Let's hope that's the case after budget processing. We need the Galician Union, because it's its competence, to promote a policy of industrial promotion and activation of the most intensive and directed entrepreneurship to that region, and we also need the Galician Union to organize alternatives. Are the debugger muds an alternative? Let's explore it. Agricultural waste?, biomass?, all of them?, or gas?... I don't know. They're alternatives that are working with many problems, it's true, in other thermal power plants in transition. But we have to test them, and for that we also need the Council of Galicia, its involvement, among other things, because it has competences in all these matters. And our bottom line is that we have to look for alternatives, compensatory solutions, we have to look for both things to guarantee a future. Why does the company decide to close before what was planned? Because, as a result of international agreements, there is an acceleration worldwide of the decarbonization plans. And everyone wants to say not only the European Union, but also, for example, China, which is organizing its emission rights market so it can start operating quickly. And the main instrument is just this emission rights market. The European Union reformed that market in 2017. Do you know who was the environmental commissioner? Mr. Arias Cañete. And I won't say, as the People's Party would say if I were in my position, that it was the People's Party in the European Commission. No, Arias Cañete acted as a European commissioner by doing what he had to do, which was otherwise regulated by emission rights. And, as a result of that regulation, when the offer is reduced, the price is lifted. And the price increased from 5 euros per kilogram of CO2 — sorry, per tonne of CO2 — to 25 or 26 euros. And the forecast is that it goes up to 30, or even, according to some estimates, up to 40 euros per tonne. And this makes some companies, which were willing in another context to continue operating, because they decide to shut down. This happens not only in Spain, but in Portugal, in France it has already happened, in Italy, it happens in other European countries, even in Germany — although they will leave, as in Spain, some operational thermal power plants in any case with lignite from the country itself. But, as mentioned earlier, the bridge plant needs about 8 million tons of emission rights, which means an estimated cost of about 200 million euros, being 150 million more than was expected at the time when it made the continuity plans. And it's possible that if you meet the forecasts that the company is working with, it's probably going to rise above 300 or 350 million euros that would have to take over the company; and if you don't, you'd have to assume them. But there's a second element that also forces the company, which is the progressive decline in energy prices. Against what was said here this morning, they've been down for a year. And this is bad for coal, it's bad for coal energy production, because fewer days go into production and, therefore, there's less chance for the company to make their investments profitable, even for the purchase of emission rights. And so under these conditions, the company decides to close; when, in addition, coal has costs, in terms of reputation for the company, more and more important. And what do we propose? So we make an open proposal, we propose to negotiate with the company the continuity of the operational power plant to give time to make that transition just within the framework of the National Energy and Climate Plan, as I said before. Because this is the frame where we must move. We want them to look for alternatives to coal and give them time to look for alternatives too. I already know about the failure of some thermal power plant in Portugal. But we try other things. There's some in Spain that's going to keep running with coal and gas as a complement. Let's see if there's any possible alternatives. And if there isn't, then something else will have to be done. We want them to look for compensating solutions for the workers, for the dependent self-employed, for the assistants, because the company has been in this area for many years, making a lot of euros thanks to the exploitation of resources, thanks to the production of energy and the pollution it has generated during this time. We believe you have a responsibility and that you have to discharge that responsibility. Because we're in favour of a fair transition, we don't want to leave anyone behind. The European fund referred to — not only on our initiative, but also on the initiative of the People's Party — we believe it is right that Galicia incorporates itself, but also that we cannot count on positions that are not real. The Platform for Coal and Carbon-Intensive Regions has closed this second phase to the incorporation of coal intensive regions. In a first phase, it's only the mining regions, and it's closed since Mr. Álvaro Nadal organized it in 2016-2017 and then the socialist ministry put it in motion, actually. But let's not count this, because if you read the associated documents, they will indicate how in a second phase only Galicia could enter. And it seems good to us. You must receive compensation. They have to work together all the administrations. Thirdly, we want to encourage alternatives to the industrialization of the region, with or without the support of the company, and also to seek solutions for those who are more desperate than anyone I spoke before. And it has to be the Galician Union and the Ministry, betting on renewable energies, bet on the R & D+i linked to renewable energies, of course. So we see decarbonization as an opportunity. We believe that we cannot go against the European Union's criteria, we cannot fight against the strategies that will try to reduce the consequences of climate change. We are in favour of the idea of transition and we are in favour of adding, establishing a consensus in which we can all be. But we believe that the Galician Union must be present in that consensus and we hope that there will be a commitment to put the resources and ideas that we have not heard so far to give a solution to this...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u272	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u273	...no resources or ideas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u274	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Calvo Pouso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u275	Good morning, President, ladies and gentlemen. Also with the tone of cordiality that has been introduced in the last initiatives, I will try to explain our position. Look, just over a year ago in this same Parliament, I had the opportunity to debate an initiative of the People's Parliamentary Group. In that case there was concern because Meirama's power station had just announced its closure. There was concern for a lot of people, but not so much for other groups. Just look at the number of initiatives on Meirama to see that it was not an issue that greatly concerned Members of the groups in the opposition. But to prepare this initiative, I read the Journal of Sessions. The truth is, it's very good. In that Diary of Sessions Mrs. Presas said the Government had not done, as a government, what it should have for Meirama, who is the case that is in danger, to do the duties like The Bridges, who is fulfilling. Mr. Losada Álvarez's was a very hasty intervention and allow me to take no conclusion. And Mr. Casal — who was in another group at that time — said that we wanted to give 20 million euros from all the Greeks and Spanish to Naturgy, since Endesa was already doing the work at the station to adapt the power station to the emission requirements. Man!, I read several times, and I conclude — as I am sure most of your lords — is that The Bridges did not worry, that The Bridges were doing and everything was going well, everything was going well. What worried was Naturgy. They're your words, they're not mine. In that same intervention, he said that what I was worried about was the Bridges, too. And more so, you did what is the thing, by chance, that I was telling you and recommending to some parties that they asked some ex-parliamentary of the Galego Nationalist Block of the Bridges, who in this very plenary came to defend a popular legislative initiative on behalf of the IGC, so that you could tell them the truth and that you here knew what we were talking about. But, well, this is what there is and this is what happens. And I start here because I'd like to put in context what is the position of all groups. We haven't come here to say that coal has to go on indefinitely, Mr. Casal. It's not true, it's not true. What we're saying is that the proposal that's on the table is neither transition nor fair, which is a very big difference. We last week — some of the Members of this parliamentary group, Mr Tellado and others, also national Members in Madrid, and Mrs Presas was there too — we were in Madrid with all the workers and with many mayors who approached Madrid to have a meeting with the parliamentary groups and, in front of the Congress of Deputies, to say what was the position of that crisis cabinet called "Crission Committee, working group for a fair transition". These people read there a manifesto, which said textually: "It is necessary for Endesa to commit" — this part is important and we agree, eh! — "and that from public administrations the necessary mechanisms are created that guarantee the continuity of the operation of the thermal power plant in a time period that allows a fair energy transition." I support you and this group too. You guys? Or the rest? Because after registering this manifesto there were meetings with parliamentary groups. They met with the Socialist Parliamentary Group, with the Parliamentary Group of Citizens, with the United Parliamentary Group of Podemos and with the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party. All the groups said at the meeting, the two claims that this committee was making, that they were engaged. Do you know what the claims were? They probably don't know, they don't know. Because the first is that we have to ask the Government to keep the power plant running while no alternative solutions are being sought. Not forever, Mr. Pancho Casal. We do not ask for the operation of the power plant indefinitely with coal. No, it's not true. Don't come here trying to get the debate back. No, we didn't ask for that. It is expected that, as long as there are no solutions, the operation will be maintained. The United Nations Group We can -- I know it's not yours, but it's the other groups here -- said yes, the Socialist Group said yes, the Citizens' Group said yes, and the People's Group said yes. There was another claim, which was to participate in the bases if a plan of assistance for the county was established. I wanted to participate in the area in the elaboration of the bases so that they could take into account what the local characteristics of the region were. We also said yes. Well, our proposal today comes from this. He didn't just try to mess up. I can mess up whatever it is — we can start with the minister, and now I'll say some things that I think are necessary, with maximum cordiality — but it's not about that, it's about saying, "Hey! we want to be that, as long as there's no solution, we can keep working at the station. Because Mr. Leicega said that, beyond the year 2030, you have to follow the thermal production by security of the system. Of course you have to follow, the problem — and that is one of the basis on which the company is focused to announce this sudden closure, which Mr. Leicega said — is that in the plan in which the Government is working, in that comprehensive energy and climate plan, it is set that in 2030 the central bridge has no possibility of exist. Plus, it's said there'll be 1,300 megawatts to hold the system. And do you know who these 1,300 megawatts are that identify the Socialist Party on that plan? Not Galicia, they correspond to the other station. Hey, why can't you also be central to the bridges by holding on to the national system, when it's been producing so many and so many years, so that the system will continue to work? Why can't he be? [[Applause]] That's why all the initiatives the Socialist Party always wants to frame them in this plan, because in this plan it is put with names and surnames who will be able to continue beyond 2030. I don't ask you to go any further than 2030. Plus, we know that beyond 2030 there's got to be some power plant to secure the system, because otherwise it could fall. And I think they all share it. But The Bridges have the right to be there beyond the 2030s. Why now in 2019 the Socialist Government in that plan calls it names and surnames and selects a central, which is not that of the Bridges? Well, by chance, that's why Endesa makes certain decisions, which logically even above come up because of the problems of CO2 emission price evolution. But do you think that a company like Endesa, when she made a 200 million-dollar investment in the Bridges, didn't know that CO2's emission prices were being reformed in the European Union and what would evolution be in the coming years? You think I didn't know? Because it was profitable, because what I didn't count on was having a socialist government that put them in advance when in the European Union it was until 2050, Mr. Leicega. That's why he made the investment, that's why he made the investment, and that's why he went on. [[Applause]] But of course that's not what they were talking about. And that's not what you count here, or what you count in half or most of the interventions there are. Look, we don't intend to come here to take out the colors of anyone or the inconsistencies, or to say what was said a year ago, and now it turns out that it says otherwise in this very plenary session. And they're the same people, not that they're different laws. No, no, they're the same people. What we're trying to say is, are we finally agreeing — whether or not — that it will continue to work while there is no alternative — I repeat, while there is no alternative —? We're not putting the year on. If it's the sooner, better, Mr. Casal. But in the meantime, because if we were to make sure... you say, what's it for? So that the trucks keep moving the coal from the port of Ferrol to The Bridges, so that the people who work at the bridge center keep working, and that auxiliary companies keep working. Additionally, listen, we can look for other alternatives. You mentioned several, we'll be able to discuss them. But in the meantime, beyond December we can keep working. Do we or do we not agree? And I insist, because the other day in the parliamentary groups they said yes. But what's going on? When we take motions to the Town Councils, it turns out the mayors are usually placed next to the neighbors. So when the neighbor was there pressing... look, the Socialist Party concelers in the Somozas said the other day -- they approved it in the plenary -- that, if the power station doesn't start immediately, the minister resigns. Of course, every one of them is tight, and this, like the bridges, doesn't press in Madrid. But we're from here, from Galicia, and some of us are from the district of the Bridges, which squeezes us, and enough. Because if somewhere we know what a conversion is in Ferrolterra. If somewhere we know what is a plan and another plan and a ZUR and a ZID, we're Ferrolterra's. There are Members who grow in the middle of these plans and in the middle of the cartels, and we know what they mean. And that's why we're worried. That's why our initiative was very simple. Hey, do we agree? Yes. Secondly, we must join — in collaboration with the Ministry, logically — to sign an agreement, which we did not have with Galicia — and that is not what you said — an agreement to continue working, and three that include us on the platform that you said. We agree. If we agree it's very simple, really, it's the simplest. We do not try to move kilometric initiatives — Mr. Casal said — we do not try to frame everything within certain names that no one knows what they are, but that, when a dive — as Mr. Leicega said — realizes that the future of the Socialist Party had marked it. He had it marked for the power stations and he didn't, by chance, mark it for the bridge power station, which poured it into a fence. And that's why Endesa anticipates and closes. And one more thing: Endesa is a company that's in a regulated market, not a company that's in the free market. When a company, in a regulated market, wants to close, it has to be accepted by the Government. And, therefore, there are many ways for the Government to intervene, there are many tax mechanisms to put on the table, and they can be done. You did, this same week, or last week, at the Council of Ministers, a real decree was passed to help those affected by Thomas Cook — and I think it is necessary — more than 700 million euros that the Government put on the table given the emergency situation that affected them. You talk to those affected by the Bridges, see if they're in an emergency situation. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u276	Thank you, Mr. Calvo. Groups not proposed. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas. How long does it take?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u277	Because I needed it, I needed a lot of time. But the next time we have to go to Madrid I'm going in the car with Mr. Calvo and, in addition to going out in selfie, we can discuss a little more vague about this. Don't be angry, gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Murmurs.]] Let's get to the point. Mr. Calvo, you started by remembering that initiative that we were discussing about Meirama. I'll do it too, because you selected what you wanted. Indeed, at that time we were talking about Meirama, we were talking about Meirama because it announced Naturgy that it would close, because they were -- I don't remember exactly whether that same week or the previous one -- the workers and workers locked up in the county. And at that moment we were saying that urgency was Meirama, that urgency was Meirama, and that you had to give explanations; explanations of photos like this, in which you were in the direction of Meirama ensuring that the investments that were being made at that time were already being made at the thermal power station of the bridges. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantiños shows a picture from the rostrum of speakers.]] You didn't want to explain this. But we were talking about a lot more, because in that initiative, in an amendment that you rejected -- and it wasn't the first time they refused that -- it wasn't the first and it wasn't the last -- the BNG was talking about something else. He was talking about the necessary energy transition and he had to have a galley table to debate, to demand, to anticipate. And you didn't want it, and that says a lot about you. Because, as Mr. Conde told them the other day, they came to this point with no duties. But if you want to talk about the Journal of Sessions, we can go further. I was not, but Mrs Pontón — who remember her very much — was in this Parliament. I've been teaching a 2013 Session Journal in the 6th Industry Commission, where the BNG says, "Responsibility, and let's get to work, we don't have a closing horizon in 2020 while companies haven't done their environmental emission duties in the previous years, and we're sucking up the yellow and yellow shit that they blow up." [[Applause]] That's what we said. It is not the first time, in 2016, in 2017, in 2018, or in 2019, to speak of this issue in this Parliament. And it's not the first time since the BNG to demand responsibility and work together with all the agents, Mr. Calvo. But the point is, you guys have followed the same attitude. Home, we discussed in this Parliament some energy guidelines that we then had to be nearly a year and a half asking for in writing; that at the end there were three pages, three pages, in which they completely ignored the problem of thermals. Those are the duties you didn't do. Then there are questions that we demand from the central government, indeed. But we also have to claim to you, if they haven't done their homework before, to do it. And we're gonna keep doing it. In the previous budgetary debate, for example, we also put on the table again and again since the BNG why the Government of Galician Union was silent while again excluding Galician coal funds. It had to be the BNG who brought an initiative to this Parliament to vote on the request for inclusion in the current plan. Actually, it had to be the BNG, it wasn't you. What is more, what you voted against was to also evaluate what we owe the previous People's Party governments. But there were more missed opportunities, because here we are debating a proposal for a reform law in the electricity sector, where BNG was talking about the Greek electricity tariff and about the discounts needed at prices for industry and households. You voted against. And now, yesterday, Mr. Francisco Conde went out saying that he was exaggerating reductions in transport fees to the industrial sector. Welcome! Next time, you assume that you have to claim an electric charge in Greece. But the question is that this BNG bill had an additional provision that focused precisely on the issue of thermals. And you also decided to ignore that problem. So here there are responsibilities on the part of many people, and on the part of many political entities. But, of course, the responsibility of who rules because it is quite obvious, Mr Calvo. I'm going to go over briefly, because at the end of the day Mr. Santalices is here cutting the subject off from me. So, as we spoke in the full past, we understand that we have to do a bit of historical memory, and know how we came here, as this headline well summarizes: "The Bridges and San Cibrao, from Franco's INI to Aznar's gifts." One of the fundamental problems is that you have advanced in the privatization of the energy sector. And one of the main problems we have today is that Endesa is a public company, yes, but Italian. And the Italian state is concerned about what happens at the Bridges. That's the problem we have. [[Applause]] And you're still, you're wrong, giving up the power sector, as you did yesterday. I know they care a lot about my partner Fernando Branco. Me too. They lie a lot when they're not, but when they're not, they don't listen to them, and, therefore, they're rectified a little bit and if they're also working on equality at that table in the bridges, they're moving forward and they're listening to what all the agents have to say. Look, here we have to unfortunately split to the state and we have to split to Galician Union. I will be left with a few words not from my colleague Fernando Branco, who I have already mentioned a lot in this House, but from another unionist of the Bridges, Fermin Paz Lamigueiro, who said the other day in an opinion article: "The priority today is to make clear the conduct of political elites in the matter, particularly PP and PSOE, as responsible both in the Government of the Union and in the State. We'll see who actually commands and we'll see if we're once again in front of the possible alliances and contuberances. More than coherence in decision makers, I see political opportunism." So we're inviting them to change their route sheet, which really prioritizes a fair exit to this country. We're willing to sit down with anyone we need, discuss the alternatives we need, but assume there's a business decision that seems very difficult to revoke. So let's think about saving time -- of course we agree, but let's also think about the generation of alternatives. And in that sense, we think there's something key: there has to be a galley work table. Then -- we insist -- the Galician Union, Mr. Conde, has to lead that table. They have to sit in the territory with the Greek social, trade union and political agents, with the collaboration of the central government, which is essential for you to be there, and with all the necessary technical advice, with all the instruments that the Galician Union can put on its side. But that work table has to work, it has to work immediately, and it has to be demanding, regardless of what happens next November 10. That is the central question that we want to put on the table and above the reproach we can make, which unfortunately are long and stretched. And there's a side question to this aspect that I was commenting on from the table, which is that we are all demanding with the funds that Galicia has to have on this path. Because it is not indifferent to the point of arrival that we have after Mr. Rajoy successively cut the Coal Plan, after the Central Government has driven us out of the Coal Plan, after looting our native coal and still having coal comarcas in transition. Therefore, we must demand the debt of the past and also demand that towards the future we must be there, of course! And it must be demanded with force in the state and made with force in the European field as well. Because it's very good to want to have a cleaner production, but it's a lot better to want to have that, to have a fair transition and not to have the hair of this country. In this dynamic we are from the BNG and in that dynamic we are going to tend to those who will tend it, to the Government of the Union, to the Government of the State or to those who need it, as if we have to sit on the same negotiating table with the same devil. But, of course, what we want is a little serious, because when the campaign ends on November 10, the problem -- "the dinosaur," as the writer would say -- will continue there. And so we have to look at the problems in perspective. And in that we agree with many of the issues that are put on the table and we present some amendments to add content. Of course, we must also say that there are many more alternatives to the proposals of the Joint Group and the Socialist Group than to the more synthetic and elaborate proposal of the People's Party. But, of course, above the political game we understand that on this issue we have to aspire to have a country position. And although sober, there's a different view of how we get here and what our shared responsibilities are.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u278	Thank you. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u279	...what is clear is that we also have every desire to go on looking for an alternative together. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u280	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. For the Joint Left Group, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u281	Well, the Trumpist denialism of the People's Party makes it, in an initiative on a power plant that emits 30% of Galicia's greenhouse gases, or lies in a global and European context of decarbonization, as if it were not important. Well, you see what their influences are. Then, another question: what we have to save is people, we have to fight climate change and we have to save people, not Endesa or the power plant itself, we have to save people. Then, if you want to have an honest and serious debate, stop telling lies, let's talk seriously. Stop telling lies, lies to cover up their irresponsible government action in recent years. You already knew that Meirama was going to close. They haven't prepared anything for a transition. You now speak of bridge transition when you have nothing prepared for that transition, you have no plan for the future, you have no hope of doing so. And that's a huge irresponsibility. I don't know if Endesa knew about the 2017 reform of CO2 emission markets. Now, the Galician board shouldn't have known, it shouldn't have known that CO2 emissions prices would rise, because the goal of reform was precisely that. Because until then, since 2005, the mechanism has not been efficient to discourage coal production, and reform has been done to encourage the abandonment of coal. And then we have to, since August 2017, when they cost these €6.08 per tonne, we are now going to 24 euros per tonne, which means, in an installation that emits 7 million tons, about an average, more than 100 million euros of difference in production costs. It was one of the reasons the company said to shut down. No, he didn't say anything about the government, about no government decision. The Government of Pedro Sánchez has had the same irresponsibility that you have: not having prepared the transition, not prepared anything to assure the people who are now in very difficult situations and of what you never talk about, like the truck drivers, who have a more difficult situation than Endesa herself, who will leave here in canoes, as always, and that you still want to benefit from it more. Then another of the reasons the company raised was the rise of commodities, coal. Coal has grown since 2017, when it cost 88 euros per tonne on the world market, to 107 at the end of 2018. Endesa-At the Bridges imports 4 million tons a year. This means about 80 million annual differences. So, first lie: there's no government decision, there's a context that drives companies to close the thermals — and it's not only in the Spanish state, it's all over Europe. And it doesn't have to be bad news if there's government behind us preparing that transition. We've already said that in Balearics the Government has made a deal with three bands: with the company, with Endesa, with the state and the autonomous government whale to make a plan for the future where all the workers were relocated, where there are guarantees of relocation. In 2014 it was done by the Basque Government. And it's good news, because the world changes, production methods change. What you have to do is be adapted for those changes. And we say yes, that a power plant that emits 30% of greenhouse gases from all over Galicia, because obviously it couldn't be without that transition plan. And we've already said so — no one can accuse us of not saying so — in 2013 and 2014 by presenting initiatives for that. And they said, "No, you want to shut down the power station. No, since you privatized it is a company decision, it's not ours. What we believe is that we must be prepared for closure and demand that Endesa comply with all European directives, to the last penny. Lying means that, if it closes, Galicia will no longer be surplus. Lies is to say that the only alternative left at the Bridge is that the power plant is still working. It's a lie. And then I say, how do you want it to work? How do millions want to give Endesa to keep it working? Let's count. Endesa says it closes because there's a rise in the emission rights of CO2 and coal, which I figure at around 180-200 million euros. How much are we willing to pay him? Let's sit down, tell the company how much, 100 million? Are we going to invest them in further burning coal or are we going to invest 100 or 150 million in giving the people of the Bridge a future and solving the problem of bridge trucks? That's what you have to say here if you're serious. Of course you can't quit! Who left the people at the stake were you, who did nothing, who didn't act like a government. Endessa, Iberdrola and Naturgy plan and plan more than you, which is the German Government. They plan, they plan! And you're going to take the picture, advertise and advertise, and try to get election receipts, which is the only thing they've ever done. Yes, very hard on others, not Endesa. With Endesa, who did a huge deal—that Martín Villa himself said that he took off Endesa was seated in Galicia, in the Bridges—you are very soft, aren't you? They don't demand that much. On the contrary, they want to give you 50, 100 or 150 million of the taxes, or the electric bill of all citizens. And that, in addition, would increase the price of electricity, which they then ask to downgrade to the intensive industries or, well, to the people of the houses. It's a sense, it's a real sense. Or the point is to continue to bet on, apart from, an obsolete model — which no longer works — to fill the pockets with the electric oligopolie. No, to speak seriously of a plan for the future that blinds people, workers and generates a new economy in Galicia and the region. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u282	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. Replica. Closing round of groups authors of the non-law proposal. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u283	It's nice to talk at this hour. I don't know if it'll be hungry, but there's a Roman peacehouse here. [[Laughter]] Let's keep this from eating...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u284	Yeah, yeah, I can't take it easy anymore.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u285	Mr. Calvo, don't turn around what I said about Meirama. What I was saying was that you asked Naturgy to be given 20 million for something Endesa was paying for by his own means. That doesn't mean I said there was no problem in Endesa. No, what I was saying was that it wasn't assumed to give him 20 million euros. This can be demonstrated by the fact that — they can continue to look at the commission diary — on September 13, 2018, I presented a bill on the actions of the Galician Union to foresee and mitigate the possible effects of the energy transition on the Councils of Pontes and Cerceda-Meirama — for exactly one year and a few days. And he says they don't ask forever. Well, to ask it to work until the year 2045 — as they call for in their LNP — for me, at least, it's forever; maybe for others it's not forever. But thirty years, for me, at least, is forever. [[Murmurs.]] It obviously shows if you knew the risk of increasing CO2 rights. Of course he knew him, and more than anything else! But these kinds of speculative companies also play, they also bet. And on the other side of the percentages of "how much we can win", of "how much we can lose", he also put in what is being said here today: what could get out for being stopped—better what ends up being stopped because he already compensated for it until 2030, for example—or the incentives that you are now willing to pay for working. Because, of course, it says it works. We're asking it to work! But this isn't "we ask it to work." We have to say what it's called that "we ask it to work." "We ask it to work" can cost between 100 and 150 million euros a year. And the point is, is there any alternatives to that? Because the other thing we're considering is that 1,300 megawatt reserve for coal in the year 2030. That's a toast to the sun! If it's not profitable now, with the foreseeable improvement of renewable production technologies, and above all that's going to be mass storage of electricity, both in reversible power stations and in batteries, it's going to produce support by other means much more effective, much faster. For example, all wind power stations in Denmark, Norway, Sweden and Finland have to have a battery next door to accumulate an important part of the energy they produce. Why? Precisely to replace gas plants, or even coal plants, to be supported by the system. I think it's perfect they're asking for immediate alternatives. In our proposal they are, but he wants to make them a little more concrete. The transporters. That carriers can recycle would have a cost in aids of around 1.5 million euros a year, 1.5 million euros. We're going off the 150 million we're going to pay Endesa. Because it's a contradiction. They have no work and, on the other hand, the president of the Galician Transporters Federation says that 1,500 trucks are missing in Galicia and that they have to come from other autonomy or Portugal. Well, that means there's work, it's obvious. Amazon just opened a warehouse in Vigo, and that's going to go more and more. I'm not saying it, the president of the Federation of Transporters! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There's 1,500 left. Well, let's give these help so that one day they can carry a load of the gondolas they have now and that they can carry anything else. No, if I know it's better to give Endesa 150 million euros than to help carriers. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Auxiliary companies. They're in my proposal: a pilot energy efficiency plan in the bridge area to match energy efficiency to 500 housing per year. That would cost 10 million euros a year, which, with the proportional participation of housing owners, could go down to half if they were financed in the long term, and which would also end up free of charge for the energy savings they're going to have. I know all this seems like milongas, but this is what is being done in many parts of Europe. But you don't care about that, they'd rather give Endesa 150 million euros. And, look, I've only got eleven and a half. There's still 130 left. Furthermore, Endesa should participate in all this — as you have requested — and collaborate on all initiatives. I've set up 20 initiatives for them. They can go hiding what they want. None of it's an occurrence, the twenty of it's the one that's developed in Nord-Calais, France, and they're all being a success. But you can stain, you can stain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u286	About the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u287	Another quick proposal: to develop a natural park of ecotourism in the brooms of the Bridges. They're ready perfectly so they can be in service in six months. At least 100 jobs could be created, with a minimum investment. Well, they've got that too. [[Murmurs.]] They don't care either. About the amendments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u288	About the amendment, it's a BNG amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u289	Yes, the amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u290	Accept it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u291	And we keep the amendments we've tabled, of course, to the other groups. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u292	Thank you, Mr. Casal. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u293	If there's Roman peace here, you'll be the emperor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u294	We're not gonna make fun of that. I know who the emperor is, but he's out of here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u295	Very quickly. On the one hand, it must be said that in Meirama you did not say what we voted for. We voted in favour of your initiative; among other things, because we had a commitment to the company committee — in this case chaired by the IGC, I think I remember. Nevertheless, we had a commitment with them to do everything possible so that there could be those investments that would allow continuity. We believe that this commitment to acquitting the Ministry of Responsibility doesn't make much sense because it leads us in the wrong direction. The Ministry has to be an ally, it has to be an ally. Because, look, I picked up here a reference from The Energy Journal, an analyst named Javier Jiménez, and look at what he says. "The analysts agree that the Ministry's projects envisage that coal megawatts remain until 2030. However, it does not seem easy for companies to decide." And then he starts explaining it. The Ministry has to be an ally, let's ally it; more, if you want, more. But I think we also have to make more allies to the Galician Union. I should like to draw your attention to the fact that, after the well-assembled political campaign before elections, we have not yet had, in the budgets of the year 2020, a well-nourished game to promote all these issues that Mr Pancho Casal says, or others that can be raised from different areas — at least to study them. That would be reasonable. I see that Mr. Feijóo goes to the Bridges, meets with the mayor, meets with the President of Endesa, and comes out criticizing the Ministry but doesn't go out saying: I'll try to do this. And a President of the Board, we also have to urge him to tell us what the plan of action is going to be. Also to the Ministry, also to the Ministry, eh! In fact, you know that we want to support your proposal, the only thing we say to you is that instead of the year 2045, there may be other references. We proposed the integrated National Energy and Climate Plan, but it doesn't have to be that. What you said about a time period that allows for a fair energy transition is also worth us, because we want to compromise the Ministry — which is your proposal — but at the same time say that other administrations are committed. And it is not true either, nor is it true — I should withdraw it — that in the integrated national energy and climate plan if you make no specific reference that says: Bridges have to close, we want to do this with Almería. Among other reasons, because, about this that you say of the 1,300 megawatts, the only center of all that will be operational that exceeds the 1,300 megawatts is just The Bridges. Almería's isn't enough, eh! Of course, when it comes to 1,300, if Almería's is not enough — that is 1,100 — of course this cannot be. In any case, look, it is indifferent, because if we arrived with Endesa until 2030 working — with less coal possible but working — would be an overwhelming success. And this is what we have to try to do: to keep it going — if possible, with less coal, better — and to allow a fair energy transition to complementary actions, to promote priority issues that have to do with the environment. And this is really what we propose. With regard to the amendments, I propose to the groups — everyone knows it, even the People's Party — a compromise proposal that incorporates, not so prolificly, many of the ideas expressed by Mr Pancho Casal, which also incorporates the reference to the use of the funds of Plan Miner, which proposed before the spokesperson for the BNG, as well as other ideas, such as this work table where all administrations should be and which should serve to encourage — say — a positive decision in favour of that region. And I believe that, on this basis, our proposal I hope you can have majority support. As for yours, I say, with that little change or similar formulation, we would be willing to support it, because we believe that the best thing that can happen is that there is a broad political and social consensus -- there is that in the Bridges, and I think that there is already in Galicia -- to give you an alternative to that region. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u296	I'm sorry, I didn't hear him. I was talking on the phone. Did you say anything about the amendments?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u297	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u298	Did you accept them?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u299	No, no, no, no. I said I proposed to the groups a compromise proposal that they already know all groups.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u300	All right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u301	And I propose to the People's Party a transaction between your proposal and our amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u302	I'm sorry, and thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Calvo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u303	Thank you, President. Mr. Sánchez, there was one thing that the PP didn't know and the Government didn't know: that the Socialist Party was going to appoint an activist as Minister of Energy Transition. We didn't know and I suppose the Socialist Party didn't either. And that changed, I won't say... yes, the rules too, changed the rules of play, or at least changed the frames of the playing field, that changed a lot. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Madam Presas, the other day in Madrid the IGC was there at the meeting with the parliamentary groups; the BNG also, through the mayor of San Sadurniño. They said yes, and today we bring an initiative that you qualify as simple because what we want is to make it clear what the position is and to make voting easier for those who vote differently in different places, to facilitate voting and to make it clear where we are all. That's why it's simple. We can extend it and make it kilometric, like others. But I'm sure, if we do it kilometre, there'll be some point where we're not going to agree. So to try to have unanimity, we're going to present a simple initiative. Mr. Casal, the Session Diary I have there. I have now reviewed the intervention and said what he says. I don't know what I meant, but what he says is clear. It's more, it also criticizes the Block that has supported our initiative on Meirama. Well, hey, I don't know, but it's there. I'll tell you something. I grew up in several trucks because in my house there was a construction materials company, and then I'm very used to walking there in the middle. Trucks used by coal carriers aren't gondolas. The gondolas are the ones that carry other vehicles above — excavators and things like these. What they use are bathtubs that carry twenty-pig tons — twenty-four or twenty-five, usually — and they're not worth, no joke, to transfer anything from packaging or stuff like that. The head is, the head is worth it, but the other one isn't. [[Murmurs.]] I suppose the rest of the proposals will be more planned; because, if not, I, who was hoping to reach an agreement with you at some point, I'm starting to doubt and I'm going to have to review each and every one of the contributions. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because if they keep around, we're upset. [[Applause]] But, look, Mr. Sánchez, I believe that, in fact, what matters are people — I agree with you — is not the company. The ultimate aim is that from December this year they can continue to earn a wage and live a decent wage. What we don't want is that there are prejudices, what we don't want is that people are paid for being at home. That said in Ferrol and throughout the region we are tired, we are tired because that society is not the model of society we want. And that's what happens many times from many plans or proposals that make some parties. The other day in Parliament, the United Nations Group could agree. More importantly, Mrs. Díaz and Mr. Coruña came down there to take the picture next to the demonstration. When I saw them, I was surprised, because I said, "But if they want me to close Endesa, what do they do here?" But they were there, and then at the meeting with the parliamentary group they said they agreed with these proposals. As they are simple, we also hope that you will vote in favour today. And, Mr. Leicega, you say we have to get the Ministry to be an ally. I totally agree, totally agree. Where do we sign it? We can sign it immediately. I think, ever since there was a change of government, he's tried to do it on many occasions. Look, yesterday the Galician Council presented an initiative to try to get another company with problems to have a solution, like Alcoa, because after several weeks the Ministry says absolutely nothing, it doesn't say anything at all. No, I'm wrong, he came to visit Alcoa and told them he had the solution, but he didn't teach her because we were on campaign. Then you tell me, you must have an ally in the Ministry. Because it's hard for them to trust us in a ministry. It's very difficult, Mr. Leicega!, especially when we know that the Ministry itself asked Endesa not to make this decision public until after November 10. [[Applause]] With which, now tell me: We must have an ally in the Ministry. I agree, I agree, but you will understand that we have something more than good words from a spokesman of the Socialist Group. And in the Ministry, Mr. Leicega, we find absolutely nothing. You say in your initiative — it is over — that it calls for an industrial transition plan in Galicia and that it must also come to Parliament to be widely referenced. Hell, that's exactly what the government didn't do with its integrated national energy and climate plan. That plan didn't go through Congress and it didn't happen anywhere. What's more, one of the criticisms Brussels has about this plan, apart from getting out of time and that the allegations haven't had time to really make themselves, is that they don't count on the regions. It's one of the criticisms of Brussels. And now you say that the Council of Galicia does its own thing and that it brings it to Parliament. No, if we're already working at the Galician Council, and that's why we're not going to accept the initiative...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u304	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u305	...—end—amendments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u306	None?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u307	Let me clarify. In ours we have the amendment of the Galego Nationalist Block, which we do not accept. Mr. Casal's, either, because it's mileage and then it'll take us a long time. We'll be discussing it in more time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u308	There's only one PSOE left.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u309	And with the Socialist Group we will try to reach an agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u310	Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga and two other Members, on the activation by the Committee of Galicia, in coordination with the Central Government, of contingency plans for brexit in the areas of its competence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u311	There are no amendments. To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Porrit.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u312	President, ladies and gentlemen. I don't know whether to say good morning or good afternoon. Last Thursday 17 announced the second agreement reached between London and Brussels on the exit of the United Kingdom of the European Union, which seemed to allow the consumption of the Brexit on 31 October; an agreement which brought a relative calm because the risk of a break-in without an agreement seemed to depart at the moment. But at the extraordinary meeting of the House of Commons, held on Saturday 19, the agreement reached was not even put to the vote, since Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who had always betted on the withdrawal on 31 October with or without agreement, to apply for the third extension to Brussels. Yesterday Boris Johnson failed again, rejecting the House of Commons' calendar for the Brexit. Now it is the European Union that has to be positioned on the extension, with the date of departure in the air. And while the British Parliament seems to be bet on a brexit with agreement, Boris Johnson expressed yesterday: the Government has to assume that the only responsible way is to speed up our plans for an unagreed result. Therefore, we are in the same uncertainty, we return to the point of departure, after more than three years since 29 March 2017 when the United Kingdom notified the European Council of its intention to withdraw from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community in accordance with Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union. In this situation, especially after the Prime Minister's statements, there are two possible scenarios: an exit from the United Kingdom without agreement, ratifying the withdrawal agreement; or an exit without agreement, an abrupt exit, which causes uncertainty and questions about what will happen — now we do not know from time to time — in the relations between citizenship and Spanish companies and the United Kingdom, as well as between citizenship and British companies and Spain. In view of this continuing real possibility of withdrawal from the United Kingdom of the European Union without achieving the agreement of Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union, the European Commission takes time working on that possible exit and proposed a series of preparedness and contingency plans, with the aim of minimizing the impact of a disordered exit, facilitating the necessary adaptation of the European Union legal framework. The Government of Spain has also launched measures of continence aimed at safeguarding the interests of Spanish and British citizenship and preserving the ongoing economic relations between Spain and the United Kingdom. In our proposal, a number of bodies that are part of the interministerial and autonomic coordination system are reported. In January, the Council of Ministers presented a report on contingency planning for the outbound United Kingdom without agreement, including the three basic planning lines: regulation, logistics and communication, and for that reason policy measures were adopted. On 1 March, the Royal Decree of Law 5/2019 was approved, with the aim of collecting the adaptation measures of the Spanish legal system to address the consequences of a withdrawal from the United Kingdom of the European Union without agreement, measures which have a double objective: to preserve the interests of Spanish and British citizens and to guarantee Spain's economic interests and normal development. Logistics measures, because it is necessary to provide material and personal resources to strengthen the services that will be affected by the withdrawal of the European Union. Royal Decree 47/2019 approved an extraordinary offer of public employment, 1,735 people, as well as communication measures. In January, the Brexit tab was launched on Moncloa's homepage. Some communities have also launched plans of continence against Brexit; Catalonia, Andalusia and Murcia have these plans. And the Government's own delegation in Galicia also launched a special commission for Brexit. One of the measures was to draw up a report on the situation of the different departments dependent on the Government delegation. This report has been drawn up with the aim of summarizing the main incidences that would cause a brexit without agreement in the various bodies of the General Administration of the State with competence in the Autonomous Community of Galicia and also of knowing what action it is taking and is preparing the Council of Galicia for this purpose. For that, information was requested from the main actors. As regards the bodies that are dependent on the General Administration of the State, the territorial Directorate for Trade, the Department of Customs, the area of health and social policy, agriculture and fisheries, work and immigration, industry and energy, the area of high education, and all these bodies demonstrate that they are prepared for an unagreed Brexit, and can report on the measures taken. It concludes the report that, with regard to the actions of the Galician Council in relation to the Brexit, almost all stakeholders report that they are unaware of the actions being carried out by the Galician Council in relation to the Brexit, beyond the creation of a series of reports, working groups and the Brexit Welsh Forum. Well, our impression of what the German Government is doing in relation to the brexit is the same as that of these interlocutors: ignorance. To be fair, we must recognize that we know some things. On the website of the Galician Foundation of Europe, we found the German Brexit Forum. On the Galician Board's website, we found the Brexit Diagnostics, a tool for assessing the impact of the Brexit where Galician companies can do an inquiry. And we also found 22 pages of advertising, more than 219 results just from news. We know the creation of two working groups: the specific working group within the Atlantic Arc Commission, the Brexit Operating Group; we know it but we have no information about its activity. And also the interdepartmental working group, recently created, Brexit working group. And we are aware of several reports, some in fisheries, given the importance of this sector. First of all, I wanted to show my grief for the death tonight of a 24-year-old sailor in Ons. With regard to these studies, the legal opinion on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom, the possible consequences of 2016, the economic impact, but as we are in this area of cordiality, I wanted to focus on the report and analysis on the impact of the Brexit in Galicia 2017, prepared by the Galician Board and the Galician Foundation, reports that it was sent to the Galician Parliament in December 2017 to comply with the full agreement of 21 February 2017, ten months, a long pregnancy. This report, which I shall read expressly, in point 10 of its report, said: " Institutional impact and regulatory revision. Although it is early to establish the consequences that brexit can have on us economic, legal or free movement for all actors involved, if one can point to effects that can result from this new situation." Well, it's been two years and it's not early anymore, the measurements had to be for starters, not for tomorrow. [[Applause]] The section of conclusions and recommendations expressly says: "Work and position are needed in the following fields. On a regular basis, the Galician Union shall analyse the consequences of the brexit in each area of action and shall implement or urge those responsible for taking legislative, administrative or any kind of action to address these consequences, including the development of bilateral agreements in the United Kingdom by the Kingdom of Spain. Second point. In coordination with negotiations carried out by the Kingdom of Spain, Galicia must determine its negotiating position with regard to each of the policies of the European Union. Third point. The reinforcement of support services for the company, citizens, workers and other groups affected by brexit is considered to reduce the impact and contribute to adapting to the new situation. A forum will be created in 2018." I'm not going to say they lie, but of course I can say they don't follow what their own reports say. And that's exactly what we're asking them to do. In fact, we have to get to work, but now. We are calling on them to follow the recommendations of their own reports and to take concrete measures in cooperation with the Central Government. We'd like you to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u313	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u314	...we are being informed by Members and Members of this House. You are wrapped up in that flag of the European Union, in that flag of Spain, and we are working together to bring forward a good way for the Greeks, the Greeks and the companies in our community. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u315	Thank you, Mrs. Porrit. On behalf of the Joint Group, Mr. Villares Naveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u316	Good afternoon, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they're wrapped up in the flag but not too much, not that they can't see or breathe later. We are going to support this proposal, it seems to us that it is very open. Within the orders entrusted to the autonomous community within the set of tasks to be done after the United Kingdom has left the European Union — that is all that has been said — we believe that it should be incorporated, because it is made in the explanatory statement an allusion to the subject of citizenship very much in the past, and it is promoted to speak of it. Why did we get to this situation? Why did the United Kingdom leave the European Union and why are there movements that hate the European Union? Why are there important masses of people who, feeling Europeanists, yet refuse such institutions as those of the European Union? Why is that? It was a good opportunity to open that reflection. In the opinion of some who strongly believe in a European area of work, of collaboration, of cooperation, in a European social space, we have seen a lot of zobra such a construction of an anti-social, anti-democratic Europe that lived behind people to live only in favour of large businesses, multinationals, where the only freedoms that have been proclaimed were essentially the freedom of movement of labour for the European Union in the search for the loss of labour costs for large businesses, the free movement of capital and the free movement of goods, obliging the rest of the freedoms which we have given ourselves, not only in the state laws, but also in international texts, starting with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948, the civil and political pacts of the sixties etc., which seemed to be completely secondary in the European construction, because this has resulted in a lot of people looking suspiciously at the construction of the European space. They were freedoms more peculiar to neoliberalism, which was simply occupied by that construction more focused on economics, more focused on companies than on people. I'll give you an example. I don't have much time. When that famous debate ended in a referendum on the supposed European constitution — which was not such a constitution — was simply an international treaty — the rights of that Charter of Fundamental Rights were opposed to the rights of the State laws themselves. Article 35 of the Spanish Constitution recognizes the right to work and the duty to work for all citizens of the Spanish State; the right to work. On the contrary, in the Treaty on European Union, in that so-called letter of fundamental rights, what was recognized was the right to seek work throughout the European Union, yes. So there was a paradigm shift; an impoverishment of rights that had already been recognized earlier in state legislation; a regression, even in what was the paradigm of what could be expected from a fundamental rights letter, which, of course, was a deterioration in the legal materiality of what had been advancing the European civilized set. We think it was a loss of opportunity, in terms of social rights, not to have built a European Union that reinforced state rights cards in social key and in terms of individual freedoms etc. I don't want to be told that there is a human rights tribunal, which, as you know, is a structure that is part of the structure of the European Union. With regard to services, the various states have different levels of coverage of their public services with public undertakings, which some operate in monopolies, others in competition with the private sector, and the directives and guidelines for the liberalization of services have resulted in the privatization of public services, which have resulted in an extended phenomenon of privatization associated with the phenomenon of corruption, a deterioration of services, often a exploitation for the plunder of the public at the expense of companies with more or less relevance to public power, and therefore the association between the incorporation of the directives themselves and the acquis communautaire itself in relation to a deterioration of the quality of life and the quality of public services in the state and in our country. Well, that's what brought about a way of understanding the European Union. We believe that there are alternative ways and ways to understand the European Union better: a social construction of Europe in which we can cooperate to have, among all of us, greater opportunities to live better all and all, not only large companies; not only the freedoms that have to do with the economic issue, because, when this is done, then the phenomenology that we live, even contemporary, remains in evidence. I want to remember one thing, too. We're very worried now that we know why the United Kingdom is going. When they threatened to throw Greece, there was no such concern, because we were not going to have the economy on that, even though people on the one hand and on the other, in this process and in the Brexit process, were equally committed, even more people belonging to the Greek political community. This also leads me to another reflection...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u317	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u318	...to the European Union's democratic building deficit. It has been criticised and continued to criticise how, despite the numerous reforms, the European Parliament remains the institution that is least painted in this complex construction of the union. And so little importance is the democratic construction that, throughout the whole of the European Union, of the various treaties with the different morphology — already mentioned, Mr President — there has never been any desire to make a paragraph of how the European Union could be abandoned. And as it hasn't been settled, we're paying the consequences now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u319	Thank you, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u320	I'm done, Madam President. Sorry, I thought Mr. Santalices was there. Because when he was in the Brexit, Greece was threatened with expulsion without any kind of procedure, without any guarantees, without any procedural context to do so with a minimum of security. That's what we're living now, and all that could have been avoided with a more finite forecast of how Europe was politically built. In our opinion, in a social way, not in an antisocial way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u321	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Mr. Bará Torres has the floor by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u322	We will disagree with this Roman peace. The reference to the Roman pas seems very close to us because, really, at that time, Gallaecia was a colony, there was already an empire, the emperor or empress was not here, in this parliament, but was in Rome, and he had his delegates doing his job here, as now happens with delegates of the Madrid empire or the bourgeois empire. So history gives us many lessons, and on this subject it also teaches us many things. On this subject of the Brexit, the Government of the United States can say it's "the candle coming." We could put that title of "Gods," because the board reports, makes studies, has an interdepartmental working group on brexit, and it turns out that the only measure that happened to the German Government was the Brexit check. There was the baby check, and now there's the Brexit check, which they supposedly approved -- they announced at least -- October 8th, with help from the companies that need advice. It's not much, it's really not much. What's going on here? What happens is that their hands are tied, they have no ability to decide, to intervene, to act, to propose anything about the position of the State, the position of Europe, in this matter. So, what they're doing is with warm cloths, palliative measures, but with no proactive or proactive measure. The basic question is — as in Roman times — Galicia's subordination to external powers and the lack of decision-making capacity. It is precisely the sovereignty to have power to intervene and decide on those matters that affect us. And the history of Galicia's integration into the European Union also gives us many lessons about this. It was therefore the European Economic Community, now one of the most affected sectors is the fisheries sector. Do you know what it was and what is still the main demand of the Greek fishing sector? That Galicia be declared a highly fishing-dependent European region. And it can't be. Why? Because in Madrid you don't see this need, and less in Brussels. You have converted Galician fishing and Galicia into highly dependent on Madrid and Brussels, this is your position. And of course, it's also said by the fishing industry. It turns out that Galicia has boats, she has the ability to fish, but she has quotas that prevent her from fishing in European boilers. It turns out that there are countries that have fishing quotas, but they don't have fishing boats, and they don't leave them to the German shipowners, to the Greek businessmen, to buy that fishing quota. That's how the European Union treats us, with brexit or no brexit; with brexit it's going to be even worse, possibly. In view of this, what we have is the paralysis, the institutional paralysis installed in the State Government by this situation, which we already know is the responsibility of all political parties in the state, one and another sign, and the political irrelevance of the Galician Union, which paints nothing in this situation. Mr. Feijóo tried to remove his head with that of proposing a great coalition. The solution was the great coalition between the People's Party and the Socialist Party, this was Mr. Feijóo's proposal, and it turns out that Mr. Casado told him that they were fucked, that he would stop messing around. Isn't that right? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It looked like it. I don't know if he said shit or what he did. Let's get the fuck out of here! He said he'd been here and learned a Greek word, let's get the fuck out of here! It's just the same with jokes or bullshit. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, what's the background debate? The fundamental debate is the European Union's deep crisis, a political crisis, an economic crisis, a social crisis, a crisis of rights and an ethical crisis. And Brexit is a consequence of that crisis. Look, you're clearly told here by a Welsh intellectual, Teresa Barro, in a paper that published in the press: "The countries that make up the European Union have renounced sovereignty and are provinces of an empire," as was Galicia and as we are now. "The inhabitants of the United Kingdom have decided for the most part that they want the sovereignty of their country and independence, whatever happens...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u323	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u324	...as when a person prefers independence to be tied up." That's what Brexit means. And in the face of this, what's the reality? Because neither Council of Galicia nor State Government are acting, because they don't have much capacity to act, because they don't even know what's going to happen and because, in addition, the government of the state...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u325	Thank you, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u326	...the only concern you've had all this time, you know what it was? The main concern of the State Government — it would be the same as being one or the other — was Gibraltar. He was worried about Gibraltar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u327	Thank you, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u328	...not fishing, automotion, the Italian textile, no Italian production sector. So no Roman peace, we defend our rights, we defend our productive sectors, in front of this European Union that strikes us, which doesn't count on us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u329	Finish it, Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u330	...that does not defend the interests of this country. Neither the European Union nor those representing it in the Spanish State nor Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u331	Thank you, Mr Bará. On the part of the Left Joint Group, Mrs. Torregrosa Sanñudo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u332	Thank you, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. One third of the positive trade balance in Galicia corresponds to trade with the United Kingdom, some 1,300 million euros in the last year. Therefore, all that happens with regard to the possible abrupt exit, a hard breeze, from the United Kingdom of the European Union will pose a huge economic risk in Galicia for what must be prepared, mainly in the sectors most commercially involved, such as fishing, textiles and automotive. We know that the 31st of this month is over. It seems that it can be postponed until the end of the year, but it also seems that this that I have just said about the importance it will have in the Greek economy is a subject that the Union does not share, because, in view of the need to articulate and predict possible scenarios, such as other major challenges facing the country, such as demography, unemployment, the situation of industry... the Union has decided to make the Rajoy method its modus operandi; that is, wait to see what happens, do nothing, not articulate nothing, do no measures, projects, no plans, no protocol to be able to deal with the different scenarios with guarantees. That's why we're adding to the idea that it's not urgent, that it's already happened and finished the logical date that the Union really had a solution. Not only plans, reports and previous analyses, but some kind of action. First of all, it seems to us that we need to articulate possible solutions for the affected Welsh fleet. More than 150 ships are made today in British waters and can be found in the next month, or within three months, without the possibility of fishing in historic wharves for our fleet, and therefore with a huge risk of unemployment and scrapping of Galician ships. Secondly, a contingency plan that had to be made yesterday, and that other autonomous communities that have done their homework have already done. Today we have here? We have a website we can enter. This website can send us directly, either to a protocol of the European Union, to a protocol of the ministry, but I think we have a plan, we have a study, we have a report, and just leave a website that really does not lead to any part, which is merely informative, in the situation in which we are today, is a little what demonstrates the situation of lack of control and lack of responsibility that this Government has with its country. The board on that page offers, as I said, reports of different studies. This study, curiously, a report on the situation of the Greek economy, says textually on the web that Galicia is not among the most affected European regions. One thousand three hundred million doesn't look like anything to the Union, it seems that it's not important for the Greek economy. So, we can refer to ourselves, neither solutions, but just the information that other websites can provide. Do you really think Brexit is not important to Galicia? If they think about it, tell them, and let them pass on to others who can fulfill those obligations that you and your government have. And if not, the joke of the baby check, which is the first one that comes to their head to solve, for example, the serious demographic problem we have in Galicia. So why not a Brexit check to solve the serious Brexit problem, rather than really have a plan organized by sectors? Because, among other things, we have -- and so we express it in the budgets -- the situation of a lot of Greeks and Greeks, who are now working in the United Kingdom, who don't know what they are going to be like and who will do their country -- in this Galicia case -- to help them in this setting. So we really ask them to be serious, to assume their responsibilities with the Galicians and the Greeks, to stop doing studies, forums and websites, and to conclude a contingency action programme, with specific budgets, in view of the imminent departure from the United Kingdom of the European Union. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u333	Thank you, Mrs. Torregrosa. On the part of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos Couñago has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u334	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to be allowed to start the way I was invited metaphorically. Yes, we are going to be involved in the flag of Europe, we are going to be involved in the flag of Spain, and we are going to be involved — we never forget — in the flag of Greece. And I'm telling you more, Mr Bará, you get involved, we'd even get involved in the flag of the Roman Empire, which left us a very important legacy, among other things, as important as leaving our tongue, which you embrace with so much enthusiasm despite its imperialist origin. You must have a long-term vision, Mr Bará. [[Applause]] I am grateful for the opportunity to explain and value the measures taken by the Government of Greece to make clear — and I want to make this quite clear — the consequences of a possible and unwanted Brexit without agreement. And I say it's palliative because, obviously, it would be impossible to completely neutralize the consequences of dislate size. Mrs. Torregross, we decided we'd take care of ourselves, the People's Party; it seems to us that it was better than not to go and let us go. That's what others did, and as a result, today we have a Government of Spain in functions in the storm of the Brexit. That irresponsibility would never commit a government of the People's Party, ever! We are concerned about this, so much so that we are concerned that the first initiative brought to this Parliament on the brexit, brought it to the People's Party. February 2017. Our spokesman, Mr. Puy, was asking for a report on the impact and consequences of the Brexit. From there, a lot of measures have been implemented, you mentioned some: the Greek forum, the digital business advisory platform, the creation of the interdepartmental group, which has already announced that it has measures prepared for that unwanted moment of the hard Brexit. Measures that, of course, have to be announced depending on how events progress; this seems quite reasonable. Besides, other measures have been taken that you haven't mentioned. For example, in the field of counselling, in fact, on the part of the ESC report, several reports were requested from the Salvador de Madariaga Group on the impact of Brexit on various agreements, and one from the University of Santiago de Compostela. In fact, to deal with a situation, you have to have adequate reports and a proper diagnosis to give the right recipes. In the field of support, both individuals and companies, the Office for Business Advice in the Igape office in the United Kingdom was set up to advise the companies installed there, and skills were also broadened to provide advice to the Greek citizens in the United Kingdom. In fact, the Brexit check has been pushed, which will allow the Greek companies to face in a better situation a possible abrupt exit and the consequences that it would have. And we also work prowessly in the search for international alliances. Two of the most important institutional declarations concerning brexit were that of Cardiff and Santiago. In both years Galicia. One of them bears the name of a city, of the capital of Galicia, see if you care about it. See if you've been relevant, that Galicia has been the only autonomous Spanish community invited by the Committee of the Regions to show your opinion on the Brexit. Can you really say that this is related to a position of irrelevance? We don't think so. In addition, the European Fisheries Alliance Act was organised as early as 2017, in which it discussed the consequences of the United Kingdom's departure. The EUFA meeting was also hosted in 2018 to share information of interest and add arguments for the defence of the sea in the Brexit negotiations. But the People's Parliamentary Group fully agrees with the need for good coordination between the self-government and the state, so it has already tried to keep a fluid dialogue with that government through its delegate in Galicia, and I think we are doing so reasonably. It is true that at first the delegate forgot to invite the Board to be part of the working group for the Brexit in Galicia, as he had previously forgotten, on two occasions, to invite the Board to be part of the Bureau against gender violence, but it was resolved, it was resolved. Junta has applied for membership of this group, and from that point on, this collaboration is producing fruit. Proposals for royal decree, requests for action, compensation, request for support for a double ferry line, both for Vigo and for Coruña, from Ireland. Anyway, I think we're doing it reasonably well. I would say that the dialogue between the Government and the Union is much better than the dialogue between the members of the Socialist Party. Because I understand that they question or I say, but look, "The Government and the Autonomous Community have done their duties before the Brexit." Mr. Losada, your Government Delegate in Galicia. Well, you won't trust me, but Mr. Losada does, and it's Mr. Losada himself who assures you that Galicia is prepared to face a hard brexit. Look, I think we all want the British Parliament to give green light to an agreement for a negotiated exit from the United Kingdom of the European Union this week and thus minimize the effects of a historic error. One of my predecessors was asked about that. The fruit of populism, nothing more, the fruit of populism. But if you don't, if you don't get to that agreement, you have the complete assurance that you'll find the Galician Union prepared to minimize the pernicious effects of an abrupt brexit. I think that no one reasonable can sympathize with the Brexit, no one in Galicia, the only group that did it here was the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u335	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u336	It's normal, the Block wants Galicia the same thing the Brexit defenders wanted. It's only to achieve greater sovereignty, even if it's in exchange for the greater poverty of your country's citizens. It's unfortunate. They recognize and, of course, do what we are going to do, which is to support this initiative, because we actually agree that we have to do things by common agreement. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u337	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Porrit.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u338	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Villares, in fact, we are making an open proposal because we want it to be accepted unanimously, as has been done in the committees. We too are particularly concerned about what happens with citizenship, because most companies are ready, and institutions too. Mr. Bará, I, who are Customs, when we go to Europe to negotiate the subject of fishing, don't know what a boat is or what a boat is. We practically have more ports in Galicia than in Holland, which have two. Mr Pazos, I did not speak of the flag of Greece because I assume that we are all already involved in this Parliament, so there is no need to reconsider the issue. [[Applause]] I don't know if you're listening to me or listening to me, but I specifically mentioned the various studies that you've prepared for Galician Union, among them the CES. All right, I didn't know that I was going to be the one who presented more initiatives! I have here a relationship between all the initiatives put forward by my group. Indeed, one of the initiatives discussed in the House, which gave rise to the report I referred to, was a People's Party initiative, but among the long list I have, I'm just going to refer to two. A proposal from Commission 3rd, discussed on 15 January 2018 by the Group of the Socialist Party, adopted unanimously by the 12 Members of the Socialist Party, which says: "The Galician Parliament urges the Government of Galicia to present for its debate in the Chamber, before the end of 2018, the position of the Council of Galicia in the issues identified as priorities in its report on the impact analysis of the Brexit". Another non-legislative proposal, also put forward by my group and discussed in Commission 6 on 22 January, adopted unanimously again: "The Greek Parliament urges the Galician Union to launch a cross-sectional diagnosis, focusing on pemes, covering the financial, labour and innovation fields on the impacts that Brexit will have on Galicia's business activity. 2. To develop an information campaign on the consequences of leaving the United Kingdom, addressed in particular to pemes, in which measures and contingency plans will be reported, depending on the sector to which they belong. 3. Establish specific lines of collaboration with the Government of Spain in developing this initiative." I know you're very busy, but in my group and in the rest of the House, I think you're working, too, and what we're asking you to do is to comply with the agreements you've reached. [[Applause]] We're waiting for those jobs, those initiatives and all that you're doing. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u339	Thank you, Mrs. Porrit. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. on the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. José Luis Rivas Cruz and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the declaration of cinematic emergency regarding the shabaril announced by the Environmental Council, Territory and Living in thirty-three Councils of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u340	There are no amendments. To formulate the non-law proposal, Mr. Rivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u341	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. Last October 1st, unexpectedly, the Environmental Council announces that it will declare a cinematic emergency in four parts of the country covering thirty-three municipalities. An unusual fact but provided for in the 2001 Hunting Regulation itself. And so on October 2, the Official Journal of Galicia publishes the resolution of Natural Heritage in which the skilled periods of hunting are determined, which collects all the legal changes necessary to declare this cinexetic emergency. This statement brings together a number of measures which, from BNG, we consider out of place. These are high-risk measures for the human population. These are no longer beats with a minimum of eight properly organized components, no. But there were still flocsies, because improvisation is what it has, and so, in the Budget Accompanying Law for 2020, we will allow exclusive modalities of hunting smaller than, moved to the largest hunt, becoming dangerous modes for hunters and for people who make life and work outdoors in rural areas. The ammunition used in this hunt and the weapons of high power and scope multiply the risk and the alarms. Because, ladies and gentlemen, in our rural area there is little left, but there are still people, and we also receive visits by lovers of hiking, chestnuts, mushrooms, nature in general, besides those who work in wood, agriculture and livestock. [[Murmurs.]] Do you see the danger? A partridge hurts, but a bullet can kill. Besides, load of responsibilities the tecores, cinematic tecores. Put responsibility on a case-by-case basis for possible traffic accidents caused by larger hunting species when the days of hunting multiply. Also expanding the monitoring costs, unless the real solution to the problem of jabaril, the damage caused by this in agriculture and the threat that potentially represents for the health of the porcine, domestic and industrial population, as a vector transmitter of African swine fever. The inaction and determination shown over these years in the treatment of the problem are against the rush that has entered the political leaders of the People's Party this past year, let's say that enough in electoral periods. In 2016 they took out the last order of help for the prevention and damage caused by the jabaril. We presented proposals based on enough complaints and people's discomfort, and the PP denied, denied! He came to say in 2017... thank you for the silence. [[Murmurs.]] Not for the attention, but for the silence yes. We presented proposals based on enough complaints and people's discomfort, and the PP denied. It has been said in 2017 since the Council, at parliamentary headquarters, that they stopped taking the help because there were not enough complaints, and that the problem was not so. And so they put down -- yes, with air of sufficient -- the initiatives that this group was presenting asking for assistance from damage and also a serious management plan. This last of the management plan will produce you that pre-eminent smile, as claiming that they were finesse of ecologists, no matter what! For them the solution was clear, shotgun and tie. But the population grew, and the damage and the presences multiplied. In 2019, the election year that was then chosen, bring us an intensification of hunting strikes and an order of insulting aid. This command makes it evident that you are not aware of the problem on the part of who made it. Remember? You've already spoken here. Among other purposes, it excludes essential crops of aid and includes others that have no relevance in our country. It seemed as if the elections were going to put a bit of a rope into this succession of destinies, but not, because summer would bring another surprise. Now the People's Party was talking about the elaboration of censuses by comarcas, and also about the need for a management plan. Have you seen them with the elections? That's it! Following the PP line of "I didn't go," they were trying to pass the problem to the State Government, now that the problem had gotten fattened and fattened. Easy, isn't it? The competitions are from the German Government, but it can shake the fleas to other administrations, if it glues, I apologize for my incompetence and my laziness. And in the meantime, the hog, the broken crops and the PP justifying by beatings -- the most inoperative ones -- the management of a species that needs rigor and planning would be. And in these, there's the big idea. Someone, in a superhuman effort, is illuminated by the brain and, well, the declaration of cinematic emergency appears as a magic formula, overcoming all possibilities in the succession of purposes. There is no management plan for the species, no census by comarcas, no protocols or biosecurity measures; only hunting, hunting, and more hunting. And propaganda, also trying to hide in a supposed pressure from ecologists. And from the first moment of the emergency statement, even the same hunters qualify for irresponsibility because of the lack of security measures. In the mountains and crops, even in the winter, there are people working; there are people picking mushrooms, chestnuts, practicing hiking, cycling. People, people, people, and animals, who, from now on, and until March, are in danger of their physical integrity and even their life. Rifles, bullets, telescopic stares, unorganized beats as marked by law, erratic day and night waits, modalities proper to the minor and individual hunt for greater hunting prey, armed gangmen; measures all of them of dubious legality. Together, an accumulation of occurrences that denotes — and it is mandatory to say so — that the Environment Council does not know very well what the matter is. Once again, the law of the slightest effort that has been practiced by the German Government for years. To pass on to others the burden of managing the problem, including the economic burdens, because in a new sample of political irresponsibility they throw all the weight into the tecores, even the damage of the car accidents caused by the brave pig, which from now on will increase, because every day they may be hunting, if so requested, and therefore of desperate movement of the rocks and the lonely copies. Nothing, nothing, it comes into law, it's legal, and it's done! Yes, but it's a barbarity. "There are all these Romans," said Obelix. The declaration of cinexetic emergency should only be based on elementary starting data, i.e. from population estimates obtained by contrasting technical methods, to demonstrate its supposed overabundance. Where do the population data with which the areas are most affected originate? Ah!Is that what The answer is that the information you use doesn't believe her or her own technicians. It only comes from the number of warnings left on a phone on which no one believes, the latest-minute scientific methodology, or the 200,000 figure thrown into a hijacked by agrarian organization. It's all good here. Biosafety measures. Moving the meat of the collected copies is a greater risk than moving the live copies, gentlemen, because the swine fever is calling the door and not forgiving. And the Greek pig has weight and importance, and you'll have to design protocols, you'll have to anticipate the problem. The conclusion, in the face of such improvisation, is easy. You don't intend to solve the problem, you're incompetent or lazy, or both. Stop blaming the neighbor and move! Use our skills and get to work! And if they don't know how to do it, because they consult or resign, which would also be a solution. Because, you know, the confrontation between livestock and timber in some parts of this country is already served — they read the papers today. Do you think you're fishing in this revolting river? He's got too many of them! Besides incompetent, also irresponsible. Have you taken into account the range of the bullet coming out of a rifle pipe, Mr. Vega? Consider the range of a bullet coming out of a rifle pipe? The damage that could cause the bullet to be lost? What security does it offer if there are hunters hunting at the leap or waiting in places of the inconcrete mountain, without signaling and warning, any day of the week? The insecurity we're going to feel about the people we live in the country during this period, both day and night? You seem to call for accidents, and this, if you prosper, can end badly. Stop reading! Look, let's propose the agreement to withdraw these measures and make a serious management plan, put your batteries and take this problem seriously, which is a problem, and you have nothing more to do with rural people. But they also consult the hunters, who have recently become quite angry with you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u342	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u343	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Mini said, the boar has been a very serious problem for our country's crops and for all road safety. Last year, 2018, he was responsible for about 1,200 traffic accidents and caused significant economic damage, especially to corn and potato crops. The abandonment of the mountain is causing its own natural habitat to overflow, so that it includes them, in some cases, walking through the streets of some city. In 2018, Junta de Galicia received 1,335 warnings for damage caused by Jabaris, almost four a day; and increased the figure compared to 2017 by 265 notices. The main harm caused by the activity of the boar is the peasants and the gutters, who, in addition to suffering the attacks of the animals on their crops, also suffer from the incompetence of the Government of the Union in managing this bug. On 9 October 2019, the DOG published four resolutions of 27 September, the territorial heads of the Environmental Council, and the declaration of cinematic emergency, which affects 33 Galician municipalities. Yesterday in this Parliament — like the rest of parliamentary groups — we met with the Union of Tekore Associations of Galicia, United States, which moved us to their inconformity with the measures of the Galician Union that authorize the indiscriminate hunts, and we were grateful that we had been requested in this Parliament, together with the Nationalist Block Galego, this non-permanent Commission to study the problem of the shabaril. And they showed themselves concerned. The Union of Tekore Associations in Galicia has been concerned that the consequences of these measures pose a very high risk to the safety of people passing through the affected mountain areas, almost 500,000; as well as other types of recreational activities or even road traffic. There are many experts who see in the justification of this statement an alleged failure to comply with the specific legislation. Thus, this statement is supported by the fact that the populations of jabaris have experienced an increase in the entire territory in recent years, as well as that these populations can be an important disturbing element of certain communities of flora and fauna. Who put pressure on you to make such a move? Or was it — which may also be — a communicative strategy of the People's Party Government in the face of the incompetence of properly managing this problem? Where are the scientific studies on the demographic data of the boar? They don't have them! Or, where are the technical reports recommending such a measure? They don't exist either. You declare this emergency due to the failure of the Board itself to manage a problem, as well as to manage appropriate help to alleviate the damage caused by the barbarian. And why do I say this about the help? The beneficiaries and beneficiaries in other calls begin to receive the aid resolutions for the implementation of preventive measures. The resolution leaves, in most cases, ten natural days to make the necessary procedures; in practice, with weekends on average, with holidays on the basis of means, the glovers and gourders offered six working days to buy, pay, identify, certify investments and justify such aid. This situation is not a novelty for the Galician Union, because last year exactly the same thing happened, and two years ago it happened exactly the same thing. Distinguished collectives, gang associations and agricultural unions had meetings and proposals to improve the management of aid, both in the form and in the background. The result we're seeing today: it wasn't one! And this bad planning, as well as the delay in paying compensation for damage, is causing a great disaffect between livestock and livestock and chronicles a problem, which is that of living together with wild fauna, of which the first injured are the rural inhabitants, as well as the fauna itself. From there the Government improvised with this measure, a desperate measure that can bring after itself terrible consequences, as Mini said. Ask the BNG to withdraw or suspend any action leading to the immediate approval of the declaration of kinetic emergency made about the wild pig in the four zones and the measures associated with it. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, vote in favour before there's a disgrace. Ladies and gentlemen, on the day of misfortune, you will be responsible. [[Murmurs.]] Ask for the Galego Nationalist Block on this initiative to regain its momentum and then draw up a plan to manage this species. They also approve this point. But, look! don't do as with the wolf management plan, which is parked there and you're confined to promoting hits on public television, again, without any technical reports that swallow them. They approve the Commission's non-permanent study of the problem of the barbarium requested in this Parliament, since we can only begin to address this problem in a responsible way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u344	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. Joint Left Group, Mr. Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u345	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all again. Thank you. We are going to logically support this initiative that brings today the Galego Nationalist Block, because it is clear that the People's Party is not only responsible for this situation because of its dislocation policies in relation to the conservation of biodiversity and the ecosystem balance and defence, on the other hand, of extractive activities that are erupting our territory, but also — as demonstrated by this occurrence they have just had — of course they do not know where to begin to solve this problem, which are giving blind persons with no previous analysis, without any kind of report that realises what the situation of the population is, of which are the best possibilities, without absolutely no study, any kind of report, to be able to do this action. But the most worrying thing about this new occurrence of the People's Party is that they do it by putting people's lives at risk. With this occurrence, the Board is totally unable to manage this problem and discharge, in this case, responsibility for individuals. They understand the joke of taste that they have to be private in order to put a stop to their fate. The bad joke they're supposed to act when the situation is unsustainable and when the damage is already huge, because it didn't start today. It always happens to you, they leave the country's governance in private hands, and when the model collapses, they throw balloons out and they discharge responsibility, in this case, to individuals, who have to go out and solve the problem — that they won't solve it in this way, but, according to you, they will go out and solve the problem — or download it to the municipalities or other governments, as if you were going through here. You are not trained to govern a neighbouring association, lords and ladies of the People's Party. This is happening with water management, this is happening with mountain management, you're deriving the responsibility of governance from private companies, and so on. And we asked ourselves: with this occurrence, what happens in those places where private people decide not to go hunting barbarians? What's wrong? There's no way to solve the problem. Do you have any solutions there? You allow private people to go hunting, what if they don't go hunting? As the BNG spokesman has already commented, many hunters are against this measure. Where do they not act? Let the problem go ahead because you don't have a solution with impulse from the Galician Union. Look, there are sharp opinions about what the situation is. There's disparity of opinion about whether there's more overpopulation or less overpopulation, or whether it's more a matter of displacement of the species or not. It is clear that a serious analysis is needed, in depth, where all the actors involved in this issue are involved, so it is essential to push this commission, where all sectors are, to see what the best solutions can be, and to stop happenings that put people's lives at risk. It seems quite clear, too, in this case, that again the abandonment of the mountain is the main cause of this situation. But we do not say so, the Director-General of Natural Heritage himself, Mrs. Belén Docampo, acknowledged that the areas of weeds are suitable for the growing up and uncontrolled settlement of barbarians, for they find refuge and, on occasion, are close to agricultural or urban production areas, which leads to their incursion into the search for food. This is an implicit recognition of its failure in forest management and mountain use policies. What do they do in return? In his usual and repeated practice, throw balloons out. I blame everyone, except you, and discharge responsibility, in this case, to the private. But we are going to assume our responsibility as opposition and remind them that it is a real suicide to leave forest policies to the dictates of business lobbying.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u346	Thank you. Sorry, I thought it was over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u347	You've launched the policies of the West Far on this occasion. You say: first shot and then I ask, to control the population masses. You have to understand that periods of overcrowding or displacement are a clear demonstration of their de-government, a failure of their government's environmental policies, and they have to understand the ecosystem functions of the mountain. It's not just a store of mountain, wind and minerals for its friendly companies that come to erupt the territory, the mountain has ecosystem functions, besides other possibilities that are also economically very interesting for Galicia. So they stop taking solutions to make west, first shot and then question, put the batteries and push a commission to be able to put a solution to this, as Mr. Rodríguez said, and we hope that there will be no misfortune, then see how you react. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u348	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Pérez Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u349	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Today we are talking again about the problem that is generating the boar, so we are talking about a problem that, above all our farmers and farmers, produces a character of negative stability, an effect that is already known to everyone, so the rural and urban inhabitants of Greece are seeing the total failure of the current system of management of the boar population, which is currently out of control. What the Galician Union has just done to try to control these populations is to publish a resolution, as has been said earlier, in the Official Journal of Galicia. Since the opposition, not once or twice, we have been warning this Parliament of this uncontrolled overpopulation of the boar. And finally, with this publication, Junta recognizes that there really is a problem with the boar in Galicia. The management of wild fauna is directly dependent on the Galician Union, specifically the Environmental Council. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we believe that this measure will not solve the problem, a measure that demands a great deal of responsibility for hunters and also endangers anyone who is found enjoying some activity in the area where these hunters are found. We understand that this is a first intention since the Galician Union, but from here on we also want to tell the Environment Council that this type of measures must be agreed between the representatives of farmers, the farmers, the hunters and the administration, in order to seek a new system of collaboration between the Tekores and the Administration that enables the coexistence of agricultural activity with the cinematic and wild fauna, since all losses are currently for them, for farmers and farmers. With this measure, the Union leaves in the hands of the Tekore the capture of the boar, with which the Environment Council wants to solve the problem but does not want to spend; that is, invite and not pay. In addition to the damage to livestock and farmers, the boar can be a great way to spread African swine fever, since the boar are potential transmitters of this disease that would threaten the pigmeat sector, an important sector for our community. It is also worth highlighting the damage caused by public gardening and sports areas, and even road safety problems, with approximately 1,100 run-offs per year in Galicia, as they cross roads and rural roads, with EUR 4 million in vehicle damage, which leads to an increase in insurance premiums for people who want to be insured at this risk. This reality has not been accompanied by proportionate measures and effective controls that allow a balanced and sustainable coexistence of this animal species with other species and with the economic, social and environmental activities around us, so it is necessary for the Environmental Council, as a competent body in this area, to draw up a plan for managing the shabaril. Finally, both rural and urban Galicians are aware of the total failure of the current management model of uncontrolled and unanticipated Jabari populations. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u350	Thank you, Mr. Pérez Seco. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Prado Patiño.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u351	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. After listening carefully to the opposition groups, I would almost be left with a headline: The boar goes to civilization and the opposition goes to the mountain. The truth has no other explanation. [[Applause]] In this GNP of the BNG Group, Mr Rivas, in his explanatory statement, what you want is to withdraw this decree of cinematic emergency. [[Murmurs.]] This takes 4 comarcas, 3 municipalities, 76 tecores, 10 free zones. Why is this done? I believe that you in the explanatory statement recognize that there is too much boar. Then I'll explain it, because you say based on what it was done. I think we all agree that there is a boar overpopulation, not only in Galicia, but throughout Spain and Europe. What did he do to Junta? For the Board has done its duty, has taken all measures within its reach through two councils, as is the Councillory of the Rural Environment. The other day, Mr. Rivas, you asked the Government a question, I think it was very well answered by the Director General, and he explained that if he was controlling — I'm thinking — the swine fever thing, then, if I have time, I sum up the five points. Specifically, the protection of the environment, agriculture, livestock and hunting is clear that they are the competences of the Galician Union. What did he do to Galician Union? He called on the State to draw up a national census of barbarism by autonomous communities. Why? Because of your competence. There was an agreement from all autonomous communities with the Ministry of Ecological Transition, so that on the basis of that census, when it is done, a plan to manage the shabaril was drawn up. The Environmental Council — I tell you of its explanatory statement — rightly draws this decree of cinematic emergency given the increase in the species of the boar. In the specific case of the declared districts, there has been an increase in the number of warnings due to crop damage and the conditions caused by them. With regard to the fact that there are no censuses by comarcas, the absence of a management plan, which there are no protocols or security measures, the University of Vigo was commissioned in 2014 to estimate the distribution of the species based on captures, traffic accidents and damage to crops. Maybe the data I have can vary. Specifically, in 2018 there were 16,000 captures, in that year there were four warnings per day, there were 2,300 accidents and it has been 25% of traffic accidents. We are not going to mention this because there has already been another debate on aid in particular, but I remember that there is EUR 811,000 for damage from the Council and for prevention of 300,000. Hunting in Galicia, gentlemen, is a sport. It's a sport, I remind you, it's sustainable, environmental and social. I'd say more, it's from the rural neighborhoods. Let's not take what's his rural environment. Do you understand? It's a traditional thing. Today we are not going into that debate, but when they want to, we are going into that debate. We can argue that hunting is the only solution. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Today, the most effective means of reducing boar is hunting. That's right. On the other hand, opposition groups do not argue that there are other comarcas with more chibaril censuses or other more effective means. I heard them from you in their arguments, but they didn't say, hey, we're going to other villages or we're going... in Catalonia, for example, what was done was castrated the females of the boar. Did that work out for you? And I don't know how much the budget was meant for that. So, cheerfully, gentlemen, we don't begin to destroy nature. I, Mr. Pérez Seco, thought that Mrs. Patricia Vilan would intervene — I say with all respect — because in this, sometimes I have heard her, perhaps it was a little harder. I'll repeat a few words from your minister to a newspaper, which says: Hunting creates wealth. It ensures that the government will defend the hunters and the cinematic activity. It is a very important management tool, hunting provides employment and wealth to our peoples and rural areas. [[Murmurs.]] I mean, this is a job that we have that... there may be doubts, you can do in other areas... let's see what happens this year. Is there another one left? I don't have anything left, do I, Mr. President? I have nothing left. Well, if I don't have anything left... [[Laughter]] We voted against, of course, this not-law proposal. Thank you. I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u352	Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u353	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't know if I dare to say it that way, a little bit in the style of the field: the opposition to the mountain and the government in the verzas, in the crops, in the vercas. [[Applause]] Let's see, the BNG didn't speak for anything about the hunt. It's more, without any precedent, we don't mess with hunters. On the contrary, we're defending the treasures. Your neighbors and I don't have to deal with the damage caused by the ineptitude of the Environmental Council. It can't be, caramba! And that's all right, let's leave things like this! [[Applause]] I mean, hunting every day, the boars go wherever they can, get on the road and they're going to multiply the accidents a lot. That's there, and we all know that. Yes, yes, yes. We'll see! In time! Look, you know they've committed huge, serious recklessness, and now it's hard to kick. Of course! When she's kicked, it's hard to get her out, but get her out, get her out! Because the trouble of the boar can give for something more than for the resignation of a counselor, and that's the serious thing. The grave thing is, the grave thing is that the alarm is ringing, and everyone we live in the field, including you, we know what it's like to walk through the field on a hunting day. It's dangerous. It's dangerous caramba! With perdigoons it's not dangerous, but with bullets it's much more, caramba! Come on! Mr. Prado Patiño, let's leave some stories! They'll need strong public money to cover up this barbarity... and whatever happens, God wants you not! They're going to have to put the propaganda into full performance: articles of opinion situate, parallel news invented or enlarged, strain the chains that hold public media in a final estertor. Even so, they can't cover up the damage done and the insecurity of that "they're crazy, they don't know what to do!" that is in the mouth of all God, that we all pronounce when we see these erratic, unwary measures, to give a way to the boar. And just the boar, I gave myself for joy! Look, in the 21st century, where drone potatoes can be fertilized. In the 21st century, in what we can do wonders, there can also be much better solutions than to tie and shoot, indiscriminately, without any organization, behind a species. We manage the species in the 21st century, which is where we are, although some proceed from the 20th too long, and we do it well. You have that responsibility, don't steal it, because it's going to be very hard. One thing, you're asking for a central government management plan, you're asking the central government for a census, everything goes to the central government, you do it! But for that, to start doing it right, they have to dynamize -- speaking in war language -- this order of cinematic emergency, they have to take it out, because it's dangerous and it's going to come back not against you, but against all of us, and that's the big problem. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u354	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. After the debate on the non-legislative proposals has been closed, we proceed to the vote on the proposals. Close the doors, please. We started by voting for the Group of the Left's Joint Parliamentary Group, an initiative which Mrs Quinteiro defended. They accept the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. At the initiative of Mr José Manuel Lago Peñas, on behalf of the Group of the Left, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece and the demand to be made to the Central Government in relation to the deficit in the Social Security accounts since 2011 between the contribution income and the payment of pensions and other benefits to their office. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u355	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not accepted. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado and seven other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the fees and works performed and committed on the AP-9 motorway, as well as its connection to the Via Ártabra. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. This non-law proposal is therefore adopted by 70 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u356	We voted for the Left Joint Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Anton Sánchez. He accepts amendments from the Joint Parliamentary Group and the Nationalist Block of Wales. Do you accept the point-by-point vote, Mr Sánchez? Yeah? [[Assentment.]] It's clear. Which points do you want to separate? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] First of all, we vote on point number one. Vote of point 1 of the proposed non-law G.P. The Joint Left Group, on the initiative of Mr Sánchez García and two other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Council of Galicia to draw up a sectoral wind plan and the measures to be taken so far as is appropriate. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. Point 1 of this non-law proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u357	We now vote points 2 and 3 of this proposal. Vote of points 2 and 3 of the proposed non-law G.P. The Joint Left Group, on the initiative of Mr Sánchez García and two other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Council of Galicia to draw up a sectoral wind plan and the measures to be taken so far as is appropriate. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 38; abstentions, 13 The result of the vote is negative. Paragraphs 2 and 3 of this non-law proposal are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u358	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas. The rapporteur, already from the rostrum, has offered a point-by-point vote. If anyone wants... they don't seem to buy it. Do you want to vote for points? Sorry! Sorry! Give a voice to Mr. Villares' chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u359	From the rostrum we asked for a separate vote from point 4.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u360	Point 4, okay. So we're voting point 4. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Sorry! They request that item 3 be voted on separately. I mean, 4 separately and 3 separately, too. We started by voting on point 4. Voting of point 4 of the Proposal is not G.P.'s law. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the action to be taken by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made to the Central Government in relation to the debt owed to Galicia, the regulations on financial stability and the constitutional reform of 2011 which supports it, as well as the negotiation of a new model of autonomous financing. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 6; votes against, 51; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. Point 4 of this non-law proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u361	Let us now vote on point 3. Voting of point 3 of the Proposal is not G.P.'s law. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the action to be taken by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made to the Central Government in relation to the debt owed to Galicia, the regulations on financial stability and constitutional reform of the year 2011 which sustains it, as well as the negotiation of a new model of self-financing. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; against, 51. The result of the vote is negative. Point 3 of this non-law proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u362	We vote for the rest of the points of the proposal. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the action to be taken by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made to the Central Government in relation to the debt owed to Galicia, the regulations on financial stability and the constitutional reform of 2011 which supports it, as well as the negotiation of a new model of autonomous financing, except points 3 and 4, already voted. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 10; votes against, 51; abstentions, 9. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u363	We now vote on the proposals that have been debated together. So we started by voting for the Joint Parliamentary Group, which said that it accepted the amendment of the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Galicia. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Mixto, at the initiative of Mr Francisco Casal Vidal and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece for the development of the Sustainable Transition Map of Galicia (CLEW-Galicia). The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u364	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leicea, who was awaiting a transaction, right? You talked about a transaction you might be doing here. Do all the groups have that transaction? [[Mr. Casal Vidal pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Give a voice to Mr. Casal's chair, which I can't hear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u365	We ask for a point vote, separating points 4(a) and 4(b) from the one part, and then the whole rest.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u366	Do you accept? Is that the deal? I mean, there's a deal you have with the People's Group that I do know.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u367	There's a deal with the Mixed and BNG groups about my initiative and then there's a deal with the Popular Group about the Popular Group initiative. In my initiative there's a deal with the amending groups, which were the Mixed and the BNG, and if, despite the whole Joint Group wants to vote for points two, I accept.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u368	Perfect! For we vote on the transaction by separating point 4(a) and (b). Shall we vote for this? Voting of the transactioned text of point 4(a) and (b) of the G.P. Non-Law Proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Xoaquín María Fernández Leiceaga and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made to the central government in relation to Endesa's decision to encourage the discontinuity of production at the thermal power plant of the bridges. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 57; votes against, 13. The voting is positive. Paragraph 4(a) and (b) of this non-law proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u369	Now we don't have to vote anything else? Sorry, I was asking. I was missing something here. We vote the rest of the non-law proposal. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Xoaquín María Fernández Leiceaga and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made to the Central Government in relation to the decision of Endesa to encourage the discontinuity of production at the thermal power station of the Bridges, except point 4(a) and (b), already voted. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, these points of the non-law proposal are rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u370	And now we are voting on the non-legislative proposal from the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Diego Calvo's initiative, in which there is a deal with the Socialist Parliamentary Group they already know. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and 14 other Members, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government in relation to the energy policy that is following, the adoption of measures to ensure the operation of the thermal power plant of the Bridges of García Rodríguez until the year 2045 and the launch of the Strategy of Just Transition of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 57; votes against, 13. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u371	Let us go back and now vote on motion No 6, which is that of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Xoaquín María Fernández Leiceaga. There are no amendments. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Dr. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga and two other Members. on the activation by the Galician Union, in coordination with the Central Government, of contingency plans for brexit in the areas of its competence. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 64; abstentions, 6. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u372	And now we are finally voting for that of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Rivas Cruz. There are no amendments. Yes, Mr. Pérez Seco? [[Mr. Pérez Seco asks for the floor.]] Give a voice to Mr. Pérez Seco's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u373	We want to call for a point of order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u374	Do you accept Mr. Rivas? Which points do you want to separate? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There's only two? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] First of all, we vote. Voting of point 1 of the Proposal is not G.P.'s law. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. José Luís Rivas Cruz and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the declaration of cinematic emergency regarding the shabaril announced by the Environmental Council, Territory and Living in thirty-three municipalities of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 38; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. Point 1 of the non-law proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u375	We now vote point 2. Voting of point 2 of the Proposal is not G.P.'s law. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. José Luís Rivas Cruz and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the declaration of cinematic emergency regarding the shabaril announced by the Environmental Council, Territory and Living in thirty-three municipalities of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. Point 2 of the non-law proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u376	The votes were finished. They can open the doors. Before entering the interrogations, I wanted to inform you that today is a sad day for the people of the sea of Galicia, especially in Bueu, by the death of a young sailor, specifically a young man who was on the New Christ of Laxe fishing. So we transferred our condolences, solidarity and affection to the family and friends of the deceased. May he rest in peace. [[Applause]] And now let's get back to the agenda. We went to the interrogations. Da Carmen Santos Queiruga and two other members of the G.P. Group of the Left, on the policy of the German Government in relation to the deficit of relief workers
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u377	To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u378	First of all, myself, and from our group too, we want to convey our condolences and our affection to the family and remind ourselves of the deceased person, that person from the sea who, like so many, unfortunately, continues to thicken the black list of sea workers who die on our coasts. That's why, although it's not in particular the sailors and sea workers of what we're going to talk about in this interpellation — if there can be some silence, please -- with the Vice President of the Board, with Mr. Rueda, as the ultimate responsibility for Galician emergencies, we also want to talk about something very similar. [[Murmurs.]] As you know, and all of us here, Galicia has 1,500 miles of coastline, it's a tourist power, we're lucky to have a beautiful, wonderful sea and great aquatic spaces, not only on the coast but all over our land. It is the second or third community — depending on the year or the month — that has more people who enclose the lists of deceased and drowned. We only find ourselves behind the Canary Islands or Andalusia — according to the moment, I repeat — and these are data from the last national drowning report of the Spanish Royal Federation of Salvation and Relief. And in fact, every year it repeats the same situation, with figures of drowning and drowning that approach no more or less — and many people don't know — the number of deaths on the roads. Almost the same number are the people who died in our waters as on the Greek roads. That's why, Mr. Rueda, as an initial question we'd like to know what you think about the dead for drowning on the beaches, rivers or pools. Do you think you need to give them the same importance as those who die on the roads or do you think they need to be less important by the public authorities? In this case — I repeat — I ask you to be the superior hierarchy of the Welsh Emergency System. In July, in this House, in Commission 1st and before the end of the session period, the summer stop, we warned that since institutions there are not enough means. And we were afraid that this summer of the year 2019 would not put enough resources on the part of the institutions again, seeing the news approaching. And in September, in fact, we took another initiative again. And the news that came to us in June was that a large number of municipalities were unable to cover rescue squares because of the high requirements of the Union. And then, in July, we knew that beaches such as Baiona, Foz, The Vice, Cabana de Bergantiños, Muxía, Rianxo, Porto do Son, Muros, Laxe, Fisterra, Cee, Carballo, Ribadeo, Nigrán or Barreiros could not cover rescue posts or could only cover them in part. For us it's something to be very careful because we think it's a subject of extreme gravity. And not only the news that came from the newspapers was what we were concerned about, because also the relief professionals, and even the Fegamp, warned that this situation could worsen this summer. You yourself met with relief professionals months before the summer period began, and, as you know, you were about to convene a strike in the sector because of extreme precariousness in the performance of your duties, which does not correspond to the great responsibility that they bear behind you. By the way, I want to thank you — today we are accompanied here — two representatives of those who were able to attend this plenary — missing people, because of the schedule, who wanted to attend. They accompany us in the gallery and I want to thank you, firstly, for helping to make this issue visible, for helping raise awareness, moving around and being here representing the profession and putting value on the importance of your work. This same problem has been going on for too many years; 2019 seemed to be no different and, unfortunately, it was no different. In fact, as a result of this meeting with both the Fegamp and the relief sector, you proposed the creation of relief grants — centralized on the Road — which could use the municipalities to fill vacancies in the summer. It was a measure that you took along with the Fegamp, and recognized the shortage of rescuers despite the fact that the number of graduates exceeded the offer of the squares. Then I want to ask you, Mr. Rueda, why do you think that happens. Are you aware that the number of rescuers registered on the Road Register does not correspond to the number of actual candidates? Can you see the lack of a decent wage, the lack of recognition of the rescue profession, the exceptionalness of the profession, which is often limited to two months in the summer, coupled with the lack of means that shocks, I repeat, with the disproportionate level of responsibility depending on the number of bathers, length of the beaches, their level of danger and the distances of places of residence regarding the offers of squares that must be covered? Can you have anything to do with this situation? Do you consider relief as a profession, as a way to cover the proceedings in the summer period in July and August or as a procedure to be covered in order to be able to assume a blue flag record—for you know that it is mandatory to have relief services to have blue flags, and then you have many headlines on the Greek beaches—? Do you consider the professionalism of relief to be an added value for tourism quality or not? Do you think it might be an excuse for that relief grant that we've seen it didn't work to avoid taking new measures or other measures? Do you think — I repeat — that this would be admissible when it comes to the treatment of accidents and deaths on the roads, where there is information and awareness? Look, this is very serious for us. We don't want to be alarmists, but it's very serious, because the figures are very high. And we repeat that there is a lot of awareness and information. In fact, there are not so many people who know that since 2015 247 people have died in Galicia, almost all in areas where there was no relief service — 80% in beaches or aquatic spaces where there was no relief service — and most of the deceased were boys over 55. By 2018, more than twenty municipalities, about twenty, could not hire the number of rescuers they needed. Knowing this situation, when we brought to the Commission a proposal to shorten this year, there was nothing we wanted to do, because the People's Party's proposal — which were extremely concerned — was to continue to do the same as it was done, or to say that it was the city council's fault and that the Union could do absolutely nothing. I ask him, then, does that include Port of Sound? It's where I was born and it's Sanxenxo da Coruña. There he rules the People's Party, Mr. Luís Oujo, with an absolute majority, and last year they had only two rescuers for 600 euros each. And this year, 2019, no rescuer. And you know the numbers of deceased on the beaches of Porto do Son and the danger on the middle of its beaches. As the President of the Federation of Rescue and Relief of Galicia warned, as he warned before summer, there was a situation that could not be repeated this summer, because the number of people interested in conducting the training courses that enabled them to exercise as a rescuer for the costs they were and the schedules. And this is a measure of the Union, a measure that takes the Union. Because there's a lot of reasons why less and less people are interested in working on relief. I'm going to quote some of them, which are already in the explanatory statement and what we've been talking about in the Commission. First of all, as I've already told you, it's a very seasonal job, very precarious, with very low wages. Recruitment is only insured in the months of July and August. Secondly, the training course, which used to cost EUR 400, now costs 1,300, so many people can't cope with that tuition price, and it is required that the course, moreover, be present at 420 hours on the Road. It's a measure that only is required in Galicia, it's a measure of the Union, and there's no such high requirement in other autonomous communities. So many workers don't deserve to take the course, because, to work for two months and with the wages they get, they don't think it's worth dedicating to this profession. So that's why we ask you: do you want relief to be a procedure to cover with people who have no other work, demanding a very expensive, presental and demanding training that doesn't exist in the rest of the state or want to professionalize relief, since in private premises it is mandatory to have this service? We're at the end of October and in full budgetary process. It's time to take stock, see what efforts and resources are dedicated to, where responsibilities and priorities are. So are these deceased — I repeat — as important as those who are in traffic to keep them in mind in budgets and to put resources on them, those resources that we all agree on that are missing, to look for a preventive solution and that in 2020 lower the statistics? Because, look, in September we knew that we were Spain's third most drowned community, that in August 10 people died in the water spaces. We already knew at the beginning of this month that 29 drowned were the Galician balance—of the highest in Spain—and that, compared to the previous year, the deceased had increased by 25%. And we also knew another important fact: that most of the beaches in Greece have no rescue or relief service. We don't say. So — and to finish — having the data on the table, what assessment does the Galician Union make of the number of drownings and drownings in our territory — both data since 2015 and this current year, of 2019 —? What are you going to do about it? Do you think in 2020 we're going to have a new rescue deficit? How do you think this can affect the safety of the beaches, the blue flags and even the tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u379	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. Reply by Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice, Mr Alfonso Rueda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u380	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mrs. Santos, by answering directly to the question you have asked me — which has also asked me several times — about whether they are more important for the Junta de Galicia the dead on the roads or the dead for drowning, listen, all the dead are just as important when you can do something to avoid it. And now we're going to talk about it, because I suppose the object of this interpellation -- at least it's going to be my answer -- it's going to be trying to find solutions, and tell him what we're doing. I think you need a lot of information, not only what we're doing but why we're doing it and who we're talking to. And then you have to try to find solutions. I agree with you that it is probably inevitable that there is some drowning death, that it is impossible to reach zero. But of course we can work in the autonomous community, which, by the way, is the one that has more miles of coastline, with a lot of difference with other autonomous communities. And the figure you give me -- and I insist that with a single drowning death it would be enough to be worried -- knows that it's not only the dead on beaches or rivers, that includes any death due to physical drowning and at any time of the year, and even deaths on beaches where there was a perfectly equipped rescue service. I'm saying it because you have to tell things as they are, and don't take statistics from the part you're interested in focusing on the problem. And, said this, and as you suppose you don't do this interpellation to try to say that the blame is on the Council of Galicia—then it's not on the Council of Galicia, it's going to be from the administrations in general but not from a specific administration, and I'm going to tell you why—we're going to try to find solutions. Look, the first thing to find solutions is knowing who to deal with. You will also agree with me that this is not an exclusive competence of the Galician Union. I don't like it too much, but I don't like it very much, to talk about a problem as serious as this, to start talking about competition. But you'll have to do it to know who has to occupy or, at least, who can't say that this isn't your competition. You know that both the Law of Back and the Law of Local Regime say that everything that has to do with salvation — and therefore also with salvation on beaches — is a matter of municipal competition, which does not mean that the Council of Galicia, of course, does not have to deal with — and it does care — to help everything that is in our hand. Of course, rescuers provide an essential public service, we agree. And that's why we're so full of trying to solve a situation that, logically, in view of these figures, today's not solved, much less. We did it a while ago, since 2012. You will also know that until 2012, as it is, by the way, in many autonomous communities, to be a rescuer each asked — he said in such a way that they understand me — what he wanted. Until 2012 it was requested, from a very high qualification — depending on who asked for it — to virtually no qualifications. This is what there was and this is what there is still in some autonomous communities. I suppose you won't be saying that, because it's certainly not what professionals tell us -- and I suppose those who are up there, who don't know exactly who I am -- We've talked to the rescue professionals, and, of course, to a lot of entities that have to do with this, who tell us that this situation should end. Listen, the easy thing would be — and we're still in time, although, of course, we're not going to do it, and I want to think that it's not what you're proposing — that we go back to the situation before, to the situation that has autonomous communities where the training required is minimal or practically none, in which the important thing is covering the square, gives the same training as you have, and there's no need to do a training that ensures that, when a real risk situation is given to people's lives — as it happens, unfortunately, on many occasions — the person who is going to come to save has the maximum training. Of course, I would be interested, if it were me, someone from my family or anyone close to you, as you'll be interested in, how you'll be interested in anyone who sees or can see in that situation. Therefore, in 2012, speaking to all those who really understand this issue and to all those concerned, we are left with the need to homogenise — and for that we should raise the level — the formation of the relief workers and the relief workers. There were several ways to do it, we went to the National Catalogue of Professional Qualifications, which also allowed the mobility of relief workers not only within the Spanish State but also throughout the European Union. So we decided — and hey! Not only the Galician Union, which was there the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, the Federation of Relief, were the universities, which have a lot to do with the qualifications at the end, and a number of entities -- and it remains that two titles would be requested, which were the certificate of rescue professionalism and the title of rescue and rescue sports technician. That's what we thought -- and of course not only the Galician Union -- that I had to have a person to have that qualification. I mean, it wasn't a decision taken by the Galician Council to its free will, without speaking and without having before the agreement of many people. We passed the decree, which you are sure you know, the decree of the year 2012, we set up a minimum training and put ourselves to work to implement it. Because I know perfectly well that, when you make a radical change in these situations, you have to have a transitional period. We said that all those who were working at that time on relief work, when the decree came out, had to think that they had a training, which they had been, at least appropriate to develop that activity. And that's where that record came out that you referred to earlier. But we also continued to work on courses to obtain the certificate of professionalism and we gave help to different entities that could provide these courses — EUR 1,600,000 in these years — which led to 800 rescuers being able to obtain this title. We did it at the Public Security Academy until there was no demand. We can analyze the causes and we are willing to, if there is demand, continue to provide this training, but the fact is that in 2017 that demand has dropped greatly. And we also did the procedures to believe competition through experience, which is called "unregulated training accreditation." Almost 2,000 people have also achieved accreditation by this system. Of course we give annual help to the municipalities so they can hire rescuers; this past year, 169 municipalities of all political colors. So you won't tell me, I'll tell you: more of the Socialist Party than of the People's Party. Because there'll be more municipalities that have any cost or need more. And here I can assure you that in this case -- and I want to think that in everyone -- whoever thought that was decided by political colors is wrong, Galician Union doesn't. It was EUR 1.5 million to hire nearly five hundred rescuers. We created the Galician Relief Registry, and in 2017, when we finished that period of five initial years that we gave ourselves, we realized that we should continue to analyze and meet again with the whole world. And we're still here, nobody's in possession of the truth. The situation continued to demand further action, and therefore we made it with the same ones that we agreed in 2012 to take a change to this situation. The first decision was to maintain the level of demand in training. And I say again that, hey! when those who really understand this tell us that we have to download it and go back to the system of some autonomous communities, to the system of 2012, in which we don't have to believe virtually no training... I think it would be a mistake, of course, and I don't know if that's what you suggested. I want to think no, but you're criticizing me saying we demand very high training. Another thing is how to get to that training. But to say that you have to lower the level of demand in order to cover the squares, Mrs. Santos, I honestly think it's a mistake. And I don't believe it. I have a lot less data than people who really understand this and who tell us we don't have to make that decision. The second is to facilitate access to this log and therefore access to these squares. Listen! because we're talking about all the graduates or graduates in the science of physical activity or sport, and of the senior technicians and technicians in the animation of physical and sports activities, of making a bridge course to which they can access, and even that they can access this record without finishing the qualification, simply with a series of credits that they have made and that already enable them. It seems absolutely logical to me. And ensuring that there is adequate training opens the door that more people can access. By giving you a data, since these first decisions of the year 2017 nearly 400 new professionals have been added to the register, and now there are 571 people registered more than there were two years ago. If you go to the gross number, there are many more of the relief workers that are needed in abstract terms to cover all the squares. Now, we know perfectly well that being inscribed in this record does not mean that there is availability — or that there is provision, rather, to access that record. We can analyze the reasons, and we can analyze what we can still do. But if what you tell me is that what you're going to do is you're going to lower the level of titration and that this is a question of the Galician Union, which has nothing to do with — and I'm sorry to tell you again — with the municipal competition and with which the municipalities, who have to hire, don't realize that you can't hire yourself exclusively with the Galician Union grant and without a euro, and that you can't wait until you start the summer season to start hiring rescuers... And you'll have to talk — and I hope that now that you'll renew the Fegamp, you'll be raised again — to aspire to a single framework agreement so that, regardless of where you decide to perform your rescue professional during any months, you'll have a similar salary and there'll be no big differences that you're now giving yourself. You know perfectly well what's going on. And if not, go to the experience of seeing the squares that are covered before, which are the ones that have a better pay, the ones that offer more duration and the ones that start in an appropriate period of time coincide with the beginning of the summer season. This won't solve the problem at all, and don't expect it to be the Galician Union even if it has to. Now, honestly, I'm telling you that everything we've done over the years, everything we're talking to who really understands this subject and all the agreements we're getting to, I think it's useful to try to address a very serious problem that we're still having on the table. The Galician Union is doing a lot of things, she's talking to who she really knows. And you don't think that the solution to this whole problem is simply in the hands of the Autonomic Administration, because it's politicizing the matter, probably, but finding no solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u381	Thank you, Vice President. Mrs. Santos' reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u382	Thank you very much, Mr. Rueda. First of all, I think you're either not informed about the Commission's debates or you haven't listened carefully to what I explained. First of all, I agree with you that only a dead person would be a reason enough for us to be talking about this here and looking for solutions. But what you can't do is slip the bulk and say that the maximum responsibility is not yours. And for various reasons, not only because you're the top hierarchy of Galician emergencies -- and I'm going to explain to you where your responsibility is as well -- but because you also have a part that corresponds to you as a member of the Greek Government, in the budgetary part, of which you've also spoken here, but you've talked about what you've been interested in. So, about the data of the dead, I knew I was going to give me that argument. Because precisely, as we're not talking only to you, or to whom you assume, the people who are sitting here represent or form part of social agents, trade unions. And of course, as they talk to you, they tell us what they're talking about, what they claim. And if everything's so good, why were they almost off strike? Because that misses it. There's almost a strike this summer because of its precarious working conditions and don't take them seriously as professionals. Because this isn't an exotic thing to watch the beach mode. These are professionals who save lives, who save lives in Greek aquatic spaces. So I didn't say in any case that the level of training had to be lowered. No, what I told you is that the courses were very expensive, very expensive, that lasted many hours for the expensive ones that were, many hours and centralized on the Road — that you will also have to explain this centralization on the Road — and that they asked you to be semi-perceptive. And we took an initiative in September to collect complaints and requests from associations and professional relief workers. We ask for the freeness of the course, not that the course is not given, which are very different things. And, of course, we all vote in favour less of you. Besides, what do you mean then? Does it mean that in other communities that have fewer drownings and that have a different formation — that they have a different kind of training because they ask them -- they are careless and must be people who don't care about the bathers on their beaches? And they're communities that have levels of tourism, luckily or unfortunately, much higher than Galicia. So you mean they're careless? Well, they have fewer deaths than we do, less dead by drowning. So what are we talking about? And you have the responsibility when, from this autonomous community, from our own country, you require a training that is so expensive and you don't want to be co-responsible. If they're so sure that this mandatory training is so necessary, they help the rescuers to have it. Because what's clear is that that record on this road bag doesn't cover the vacancies. So if you're telling the affected sectors, on the one hand, which is for this course and on the other, because they have such low wages — except for the municipalities as Barreiros may be, that they offer higher wages because of the danger of their beaches and because no one wants to take responsibility for taking care of and exercising the relief service on such dangerous beaches, then tell me what the solution is. No, you don't want to talk about the strangulation of the municipalities thanks to Mr. Montoro, that the municipalities don't have enough resources. Even Port of Sound. Sound port governs the People's Party, Mr. Oujo, for the most absolute majority for the second time. So is Mr. Oujo incompetent, who last year had two rescuers — 600 euros each — and none this year? Besides, we don't just care about ourselves, not just the people who go to the beaches, not just the families who go to the beaches with their children or their elders, and themselves, to the beaches. It's just that we were transferred to Civil Protection, the Local Police, the Civil Guard... because in the end, when there's no relief service, who cares for people? Who do you give it to, Mr. Rueda? But it has nothing to do with you. That 80% of the deceased are produced in spaces where there is no relief service is an anecdote. 80%, 80%, Mr. Rueda! You have a family too. Do you want to go to beaches where you know there will be rescue services in case something happens? Because I do want to go to beaches that have a relief service, where I go with my friends and my family, and have relief professionals so they can help us in case something happens. I, unfortunately, saw, on the beach where I was born, dying people drowned. I saw boys die for going to help other people who were unable to return to the earth, for helping them; they came to die for saving someone else, because there was no personal. So you tell me, then, if you don't want to put money, if you don't want to help fund the course... because I repeat that we want you to take the course, but it doesn't seem acceptable to us that price or that it is so long and on the Road, but it should be decentralized throughout the territory so that people can attend. Or do you have any interest in you on the Road to be there when you're asked to be semi-pressive? Because we didn't ask him, they asked him. Anyway, because of our proposal, don't worry, we'll bring her to the motion. Because, of course, there are models that work, like the Asturian. Maybe you should talk more to other autonomous communities where they have the highest number of relief workers, less dead, and which, therefore, of course, do quite better than you do and take the professionalization of relief more seriously than in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u383	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. Close this question by Mr. Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u384	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Santos, the strike threat, as far as I know — and I think I know what to know here — was because of the terms of recruitment of those who have to hire, which are the municipalities. What happens is that, of course, you have the plea made to say that the Galician Union is guilty of everything, including the conditions of recruitment of the municipalities, in which, as I told you, this same year, there are EUR 1.5 million of the Galician Union to help the municipalities. And I'm telling you again that those municipalities that offer attractive conditions for rescuers who want to work in the summer cover all the squares without any problem, those that offer attractive conditions. Give me a concrete example and, hey! Well, whether it's my party or not, what I want is for all mayors and mayors to realize that this is a fundamental thing and that, therefore, they cannot depend only on the Council of Galicia — which puts a very large hand on a municipal competition — to have or have no rescuers. Of course, if you give it a good thing you have to be with your arms crossed and, if I get the money from the board, I contract and, if not, you don't contract absolutely nothing, you'll be making a serious mistake. But the threat of strike was not what the Galician Union is doing, which is doing a lot—speaking, insisting, with those who really know—. Hey, it's very hard this without making demagogy, because, of course, doing demagogy is very easy to say: No, I don't want you to lower your training, but it's just that you're demanding a lot of hours. Hey, because it's the time to give that training. It's just that the courses aren't designed by us, Mrs. Santos, to draw us professionals. And you don't have to know, you don't have to have the same information as me, but these courses don't take place on the Road, they get decentralized, with the Galician board grant, in entities that have the training to do it. You know yourself! They're not all centralized on the Road. On the Road is the record of those rescuers. And on the Road, if the new government organ of the Fegamp is prepared, the centralized system will logically be with a series of conditions. We will ask the municipalities to commit themselves to a homogeneous recruitment framework and that all funds be, if not the same, but very similar so that the rescuers in that bag — as well as the local police — may have homogeneous conditions when they go to work. If they are willing to do so, we will centralize training without any problems, Mrs Santos, without any problems. And you go back to the theme of the Asturian model. Look, the Asturian model is what we had here before. Do you realize what contradiction it is? In Asturias there are a lot less miles of cost than here. And we're not going to the proportions, that I'm dedicated to a parliamentary intervention, both for my part and -- I'm sorry to say -- for yours -- to see the number of dead people and where it's bigger or smaller -- here we have many more beaches and we demand more training for relief workers. We have magnificent rescue professionals. [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga speaks words that are not perceived.]] Or are you telling me that if a lot of people drown, it's because professionals don't work well? It's because, indeed, there are many more beaches in Galicia. [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga speaks words that are not perceived.]] And we do our best, giving more grants than in other autonomous communities to help the...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u385	Please, Mrs. Santos! Don't interrupt, please! [[Murmurs.]] Silence! [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u386	Mrs. Santos, yes, there are things you won't be right enough for me to interrupt. I agree that you don't have all the information... [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u387	Mrs. Santos, please be quiet! Mrs. Santos, there was a deal with the vice president. Let's see if we can do it. It's the so-called "silence pact," you can't interrupt who's in the use of the word. You applauded that covenant, let's do it. Now he was failing to do it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u388	Look, let's try and get solutions to this, because if you don't... [[Murmurs.]] First, we agree that we have to listen to those who know. We're doing it. You tell me, no, it makes partial listening. No, no, you listen to everything. And there are decisions that I already knew could bring a series of consequences. I think they're good at the end. We're right. But I already say that the easiest decision was to follow as it has so far, that, I'm sorry to tell you, of your speech, what I understand — and I think it's what you can understand neutrally hear — is that it's better to go back to the first place, when all the squares were covered because there was no training for the rescuers. [[Murmurs.]] We're not going back to that, we're going to be responsible, we're going to continue to fund the training of these courses, we're going to make it easy. And I've already told you before that a proposal that seems appropriate to me is that, in certain titles, with a series of credits you can already access. We will continue to subsidise the bridge courses, we will continue to subsidise the entities that facilitate those courses, we will continue to try to centralize training if the new Fegamp agrees, we will deepen in that figure of the assistant so that rescuers who are dedicated only to relief tasks do not have to do health auxiliary tasks that others can do. We can do all that. Of course, we're not going to say that training has to be very strict, that it can't go down anything, but that we have less hours because it's such a training... we can't do that, Mrs. Santos! We can't do that! Those are the easy solutions. We're going to tell the municipalities that they can't make depend on the existence of relief simply from the Galician Junta grant, that they benefit a lot from the people who go to their beaches and therefore have to work. We're going to tell Members, most of them -- who think they don't have anything to do with this -- that this is a task for everyone. Hey, why do courses have to be subsidised only by the Autonomic Administration? Why do you have to subsidize the recruitment of the municipalities only to the Galician Council and the deputies and the municipalities themselves — some with a lot of resources — have nothing to do with anything at all? Let's think this is a task for all of us, let's think that a single dead person should make us collaborate, and let's think that on these subjects, it's more demagogy and the more we use it to blame the Galician Union, the less solutions. And, of course, this is a very serious topic to try not to find solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u389	Thank you very much, Counselor. We move on to the next interpellation, which is the one that corresponds after the change of order of the day. Da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and two other members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the policy of the Government of Galicia in relation to the climate crisis
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u390	Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u391	Thank you, President. I think the pact was between you and me. But we do it relatively extensive. [[Laughter]] Counselor, this here is a comic distributed by Greenpeace. It's funny outside but with very serious things inside. It's called climate Villanos — in English it would be "cities of climate", but I'm not in the comic. And there are two people and two characters who are destroying planets, destroying renewable energies, betting on diesel and polluting water. [[Murmurs.]] I'm Darth Vader, Joker, Mariano Rajoy and Donald Trump. Not that we say it, that Greenpeace says it. In fact, Mariano Rajoy is even enlarged in this comic. And these villains, in addition, are lethal to democracy, exactly like the climate crisis. [[Murmurs.]] And I'll put four examples. Three are studies, experiments. And there's one that's not an example, which is the pure reality. From a medical point of view, from 26 degrees sleep is of much worse quality. And if we don't sleep well, we can't work well during the day. There is a study by Cambridge University, made about three thousand counties in the United States for fifty years, which concluded that the climate crisis will impact so much that in the United States the number of crimes will increase. He did a calculation, and between 2010 and 2099 he will cause 30,000 more murders, 200,000 more rapes, 400,000 more thefts, and so on. I don't know if it's too funny for them, but it's a university study sponsored by Cambridge. [[Murmurs.]] You must have had this gentleman who was an absolute genius in climate crisis, who had a cousin who was a machine and who actually hit in his vision through his crystal ball. But there are people who are studying the real climate crisis.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u392	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u393	And in addition, he recently did an experiment in Kenya and the United States. In two separate rooms, for six months, two groups of six randomly elected people, and who were rotating, were put — each group of six — in a room. The rules were the same, the games were the same, the questions to solve and the problems to solve were the same, but the temperature was different. One room was 22 degrees and the other was 30 degrees. The result was that people subjected to that temperature of 30 degrees reacted much more violently and with a destructive capacity, in relation to the other people who were in the same room, very superior. And from this study, the deduction was that the frequency of violence among individuals is going to increase, more or less, by 4% — around 4% — and disputes between groups by 14%. And besides, that the change will be so gradual — it won't be immediate, obviously, because the temperature is going to increase slowly — that we won't perceive it. These are studies. These are, therefore, questions to address within experiments made. But now comes reality. By climate change, in 2018, at least 164 people who were defending the environment were murdered. Most — more than half — in Latin America. Almost all related to mining, but some even related to water protection. And those murders are increasing. Of course, with this situation it is difficult to understand that this Parliament is coming to defend coal, to defend diesel, indefinitely. We think it's necessary to bet on now, discard these characters, these villains. This is going very fast, change is very fast, and the climate crisis, climate change, will slow, but it will come. That's it, that's it! You said it once: he's already here and he's here to stay. And we mistrust him. We're not quite sure that you're adapting enough to take a look at this situation in Galicia. Sometimes, when changes go too fast, because intellectual and social adaptation has to go fast, because if we don't, we stay behind. We are still one of the few regions, one of the few territories in Spain, one of the few communities in Spain, which we are green reserves. And we believe that we can act urgently, or we must act urgently. We must fight climate change, but we must also mitigate change and adapt, because we have no more remedy. And, above all, what we need, in addition to urgent measures, are budgets. In last year's budget, there was little action in the fight against the climate crisis. There's a few more here -- we'll analyze it for the kid when it comes to appearance -- but almost everything is pure makeup. The European Commission is telling us that what was agreed in the Paris Agreement is insufficient, that we must innovate, that we need a new way of living, a new social pact, a new economic model and a new regulation; a new way of life that reduces CO2 emissions. And a few days ago the Dutch socialist Timmermans appeared in the European Parliament and said that he was betting on reducing CO2 not by 50% but by 55% in the year 2050, and that he was going to try to get the European Commission to accept that reduction. He was also talking about the need to promote renewal projects in relation to families. Here we proposed a "renewal plan of household appliances." They voted against the Commission and then you brought it up as a motion for a resolution — and, of course, they approved it because it was yours. But it's far less ambitious than it was proposed from our group in the Commission in a non-legislative proposal. And there must even be new forms of funding for families, for their homes — social housing, social bonds — for example, through energy saving, which saves energy that is used to use in renewal. The same with public buildings. We need the new social pact — Timmermans was talking about the ecological pact — a new economic model. Even the leaders of Abanca are talking about the need for companies to include sustainability in their management and that they will support any business project that incorporates sustainability criteria, including projects linked to renewable energies — really almost all financial entities are doing this — And even if they dared — I think it was Mr. Escotet who gave this new one — to have as their objective to contribute to the conservation and sustainable use of ocean resources. You're not yet. And we need a policy framework that includes the energy sector, agriculture, waste, industry and tourism, because this is something transversal, it's not just a matter of time. Also, looking at what is closest to us, also looking at those mining regions — we now approve an initiative in that sense — we have to help finance, have a transitional fund and also recycle the people who work there. We believe that it is necessary for you to take real measures already, that you have a budget for these measures to be true, to be real. And we give as a brush the necessity or possibility that there is an autonomous decarbonisation plan — that you do not have — that in public works you start using recycled materials — approaching 40%, if possible —; that agreements or agreements are promoted with other administrations — with councils, with deputies — to co-finance actions to combat the climate crisis; or that — that is just a sample — a plan to promote renewable energy and energy self-consumption in the German public sector is approved. You have the questions in writing. That's six questions from this interrogation. I won't read them because it's not necessary. What I'm asking is that you be concrete and answer all of them. And for the moment, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u394	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. Mrs. Vázquez Mejuto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u395	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Mrs. Vilan, the truth is, as you started with a comic and I'm very lucky to have two children, one aged 11 and the other 17, I'll transfer two comic books adapted to different ages. But they're scientific comics that don't use politicians, they're just conscious, which is what we have to do for our youth. [[Applause]] From there I'll tell you that, indeed, you ask a series of questions that I'm going to try to answer, but the answer is already what was approved by the 2050 Climate Change and Energy Strategy, which, as you know, just two or three weeks ago was approved at the Joint Council. Some of you even came to say, as there was the closure of the bridges, because chance of us presenting the Strategy of Climate Change, a strategy in which you've been working for two years. So, about what you ask me, the answer already has it there. Anyway, I think it's good to put data on the table. We all know, or we should know, as regards CO2 emissions which have increased in Spain since 1990 until now; in Galicia, they have decreased. It is also good to know that Galicia is from the few regions — that is, four regions — that we have the 2050 Strategy for Climate Change and Energy; and it is therefore good to put it into value. And it's good that it's worth it because even today it's being held in Santiago, specifically in San Martino Pinario, an international event in which seven regions, regions of the Netherlands, Belgium, Poland, Romania, Bulgaria, Slovenia and Sweden, are moving to Galicia to first hand to know what Galicia is doing to preserve and preserve biodiversity, to keep that green Galicia, so that the landscape is an asset, an asset at the environmental level but also an economic asset; and, above all, to know what we're doing, because they understand that Galicia is being a solution to climate change and not always a problem. Well, there they are, from these different regions, working. He's been doing it all week. Some people will stay next week. So it's a very interesting job, a work in the field of biodiversity that should be valued, because we're a national reference. I have to say that the fight against climate change is a priority. It's a priority in which the Galician Union is fully involved. And we're involved in a fair transition, so we don't understand that this community is being punished. And she's actually being punished. You are being punished, Mrs Vilán, by someone who is the Central Government, by someone who is President Sánchez and someone who is the Transitional Minister. Because he doesn't look for us, because they're not around us and they're using us to give them calculations to present them in Europe; but on the contrary, they refuse to make incentives. And, therefore, sudden performances are done, like the ones we're living right now. And whoever hears her speak to you now or hears her speak when faced with the bridge workers will put their hands on her head. First because, indeed, coal is not eternal and diesel is not eternal. But what we cannot do is that, day after day, without making a fair transition, we determine that we must simply close, Mrs. Vilan; and, in addition, that Galicia should put upon the table the solution. It's just that Galicia has the solution on the table. And I'm telling you that Galicia uses 66% of its power already as renewable, it's renewable. And do you know how much the average national level is? Well, it's 38%. But do you know who goes beyond us at European level? Well, only Denmark, with 68.4%, and Croatia, with 73.6%. That's the reality. But this is not a job that had been done yesterday for today, but it's a continuous job. Therefore, 86% of the energy we consume in Galicia comes from renewable sources, four times as much as in Catalonia, Mrs Vilán. Do you know how much it is in Catalonia? 19%. And do you know, for example, how much is it in Asturias? 44%. I mean, Galicia already uses double in renewables. But Mr Sánchez always punishes the same ones, that is, those who comply with the European guidelines, those who comply with the rules of expenditure, those who contribute to financial stability in Spain. In the end it is more punishment, and we continue with those punishments; punishments in which, in the end, the repercussions are more than important. And Galicia is one of the most active, most proactive communities that contributes to the percentages of renewable energy in Spain, of which the minister then boasts in Europe. And you know who? Thanks to Galicia. But in spite of this, we have decided sudden closures of power stations, which are affected despite making investments of more than 230 million euros to adapt and to be less polluting. In the end, the conclusions of the Sánchez government's behaviour are as follows: on the one hand, the Sánchez government is telling the autonomous communities that they must be loyal, that they must comply with commitments, but the result is that there is no incentive. But despite that, Galicia will continue on the same path, will continue on the same line and, of course, will advise other countries — as it is doing right now — in the Netherlands, Belgium, Poland, Romania, Bulgaria, Slovenia, which today are here in Galicia with that objective. So little help is given to us by the central government so that we continue to work for climate change in the various autonomous communities. But we'll keep pushing actions, we'll keep pushing actions, and we'll follow those Thursdays, those Thursdays that are our future. But we won't do it with comics, which ultimately leads to talking about a politician or another. No, we have to talk about technicians, we have to talk about studies, we have to talk about scientists. And there we have, Mrs Vilán, the Welsh Strategy for Climate Change and Energy 2050. And it was a shame you didn't participate. They didn't participate at all in that strategy, despite the fact that we've been there for two years and the fact that there were all sorts of organizations. There were political parties, there were trade union organizations, it was university, there were many tables. In the end there were 690 people who participated. But the truth is that the PSOE and, in particular, you, Mrs Vilán, have not seen it anywhere. The double objective of this strategy is, on the one hand, to make Galicia a referent in the process of switching towards an economic model and low consumption into emissions; and on the other hand, to convert Galicia into an active part of the solution of the problem. To achieve this, the Strategy for Climate Change and Energy was born. We were from the first communities. It's only Cantabria, Navarre and Basque Country. And Galicia aspires to lead the transition necessary to mitigate and adapt. And also do it with budget, do it with 170 measures and do it with 1,250 million euros. And, indeed, it's not just about budgeting for the Environmental Council, because if someone believes that climate change and if someone believes that biodiversity is just advice, it's very wrong. Climate change, biodiversity, landscape, climate, is a part of everyone's administration. And with all the administrations, we're working. A meeting was held yesterday, in this case in Marin, and meetings are being held continuously. And there were 35 mayors of different ideologies. Why? Because they're worried too. And there's something called the climate pact, the municipalities. And there they're more than involved, and they're also from different ideologies. Faced with what? To make it a challenge for us to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% in 2030 compared to 1990.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u396	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u397	Thank you, President. And achieve 32% renewable energy production and improve energy efficiency by 32.5%. And for that, there's budget, so there's a strategy and that's why you've been working for two years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u398	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo has the floor on the replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u399	Thank you, President. Counselor, you've talked about so many things, some so inventive and others that have absolutely nothing to do with this matter, that I really don't know where to start. But I'm going to start with the beginning.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u400	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u401	I'll start with the principle, the villains, indeed. You don't have to have kids, or have a family or a teenager, so we like comic books. But besides those we also have teenagers, besides comic books, there's the real world. And in the real world, Donald Trump and Mariano Rajoy live. And you need to know, you need to know. [[Applause]] You can't live in the inopies all your life...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u402	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u403	...not in an absolutely unreal world of comics. You need to live with your feet on the ground, and much more if you're 11, 17, 16 or I don't know how old you said. Even more. And I think Donald Trump is not left-handed and I think Mariano Rajoy is still a militant of the People's Party and was president of the Government of Spain for seven years. And he did something.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u404	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u405	It's more, it was a lord who eliminated the sun tax... He didn't remove it, he introduced the sun tax, he introduced the sun tax. There were other European Union countries that didn't have.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u406	Mr. Trenor, Mr. Trenor, be quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u407	Mr. Trenor, the president and I have a deal. You'd better keep that pact. Moreover, he imposed that tax on the sun when not all countries in the European Union did so. You quoted Mr. Pedro Sanchez. Then Pedro Sánchez had to arrive...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u408	Mr. Trenor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u409	...and the minister — not the Transition, the Transition was something else — of the Ecological Transition to pay the sun tax. It's more, and inside...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u410	I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr. Trenor, I call you by order. That was what I was looking for, wasn't it? That's it! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u411	I think so.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u412	But know that calls are limited, eh! If not, there's trouble.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u413	Look, Counselor, where the renewables that had to do with that sun tax had a lot of losses, multimillionaire losses. And there's a very important attorney's office, which I'm not going to quote, where there's an ex-Vice-President of the Government who is now claiming that the Spanish State is paying off those power companies that have lost millions and millions of euros. He's claiming they're being returned to them and he's making a price. And that lady was Vice President of the Government with Mariano Rajoy. Ah, by chance! Everyone behaves as they can. Counsellor, come here and talk about biodiversity when we talk to you about climate crisis. You haven't talked about waste, tourism, agriculture, which are sectors that have to do with the necessary fight against the climate crisis. Galicia, on the one hand, tells you that it's working with 86% of renewables, but at the same time, before summer, we were told here that if the thermal power plant of the bridges were closed, we would have an energy deficit and we would have to buy energy from outside. Then you said Galicia is below CO2 emissions. We have the country's most polluting factory, the one that emits CO2 most throughout the country, the third that emits CO2 most throughout the European Union, and said Galicia is a solution to climate change. Well, he really made statements that are absolutely unheard of. The thermals close in all countries, they have to close in all countries of the European Union. In all but Poland... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u414	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u415	In Poland, Germany and Czechia have a different date later because they have the lignite mines caught there. They don't care about coal, they do. By the way, you weren't when you spoke to the vice president, because he explained...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u416	Don't get me into the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u417	...—I am not going to that debate—which happened to the Bridges. You didn't understand it, but you weren't when I went to the Environmental Council and I was counsellor to Mrs. Beatriz Mato just to see the draft of the Climate Change Strategy, but it's been a long time ago. You weren't a counselor and you were in the middle of the countryside and that's why we weren't lucky to cross the board. But say we don't know anything! You've had enough more than two years with that strategy and it's been taken away because Spain is forcing all the autonomous communities to have a strategy that must be presented in the European Union, not because it came out of their heart.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u418	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u419	Finally, Counsellor -- and I'm finished now -- about this Strategy to Fight Climate Change 2050, parliamentary groups don't participate in it because it's not a bill. Of course, if you had...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u420	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u421	...—end—the courage to bring this strategy in the form of a bill, which we could debate in the Galician Parliament, we could make contributions; that is impossible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u422	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u423	You even have the possibility to do so through modifications to the Budget Law, through that law that they use as hunting a lot of times, through the Accompanying Law. They didn't either. Well, it's a sadness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u424	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. Mrs. Vázquez Mejuto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u425	Thank you, Mr. President. You were talking about life. Long life to Mariano Rajoy, no doubt, and long life, as a person, also to Sánchez, but let's hope not politically, because it's a real disaster. [[Applause]] And that disaster is turning into repeated closures. [[Applause]] Then, when he closes up, let's stick with the employees and say: we're with you, but politically we don't do anything at all. We're talking about 2050, we're not talking about 2019. That's the reality. When Mrs Vilán said that you are presenting the strategy because they are obliged, because they actually force us to all the autonomous communities, Mrs Vilán. The only thing you've forgotten to say is that we are the fourth, Mrs. Vilán, to present it. But, above all, we advance both in this strategy and in the economy to circulate to the state, because it is not doing anything at all, because they are roused in choice after choice and, instead of making the presentation in Europe, you know, in the end, we are going to the different regions, the different autonomous communities. But it is that the country at the state level and as a ministry does not exist represented in Europe. And that's a serious problem, Mrs. Vilán. So we talked about budgets in the question, and I answer you: 1,250 million euros, which, in addition, are perfectly distributed in the strategy and which you can visualize. He says two years ago he went to see the strategy. I'm glad. The contribution wouldn't be bad, because it seems either here or if you can't say anything at all, i.e. it's going to be approved but it doesn't work, i.e. they're not part of society, they're just here, they're only and exclusively, but they don't belong to any political party either, they don't make any allegations; i.e. they're going to introduce themselves. And I continue to say: we continue, and yesterday it was even published in the DG, Mrs Vilán, the Interdepartmental Coordination Commission of this strategy to follow up, follow-up that will be done annually, because when a job is done, a serious job, we are not only politicians, but they are technicians, scientists, universities, trade unions and political parties — those who wanted to be; others because they are dedicated to other kinds of things. There are a lot of concrete measures we're taking in that strategy. They're from measures to the residential sector, to improve their energy efficiency, because here when we talk about climate change, it seems to be just industries; it's much more, Mrs. Vilan, much more, it's not just industries. So you help the residential sector, to improve the conditions of isolation, efficiency, of the protected housing park, but also not just the protected ones; you have to start administrations first and it's good that the municipalities are involved, it's very good that Members are involved. We are developing the Register of Energy Efficiency Certificates of Buildings in order to obtain a picture in a situation of all existing real estates in Galicia. Fundamental tax incentives — which we already have — that will be a reality for next year, when our budgets come into force, for actions of improvements related to savings and energy efficiency. Measures to reduce CO2 emissions, first in vehicles, in the parking lot, in vehicles of the Galician Union, but we're also going to have incentives for the rest of those who want to make their change. And a progressive energy efficiency improvement plan for waste water sinks. In addition, we will continue with the development of the thermal strategy, with a bet on renewable energies, and the development of a plan of incentives for the installation of renewable boilers and sources, which, in addition, is working very well elsewhere in the world, such as centralized and very efficient heat and cold networks. In addition, another package of complementary measures to the above mentioned and the 2019-2030 Circular Economic Strategy. And then we would actually have to tell the central government to do something, to do something, that is, because in the end we are the different autonomous communities that we are nourishing the state so that it will then go and tell us what we want to do about it. It's a planning tool by which he bet Galician Union towards a productive model...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u426	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u427	...where the waste is, too; there was only a lack of waste, Mrs. Vilán. So they're acting axes. And, by way of conclusion, tell you that there are major threats at the international level, but in the case of Galicia we're going the right way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u428	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr Da Paula Vázquez Verao and three other Members of the G.P. Joint, on the policy of the Government of Greece in relation to budgetary expenditure on fundamental public services
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u429	To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u430	Good afternoon, Counselor, though in this full if you lose a little the notion of the time and even of the day in which we live. Today's question that we want to transfer to you could be summed up by the fact that the Board, with social, educational and health needs not covered, has not recovered the pre-crisis social investment, during the decade in which the Government of Feijóo, in addition, adds to its—let's say—final goal of tax gifts to whoever else has. We presented this inquiry on the basis of the report submitted by the State Association of Directors and Managers in Social Services, corresponding to 2018, on the social expenditure autonomously, both in health care and in education and in social services, and the final result offered by the report, as it pointed out to us as one of the communities that did not recover in these areas the previous expenditure that existed before the cuts took place. This was a new study for us that confirmed that, since 2016, as we have seen in budgetary debates, despite the improvement of the macroeconomic framework since 2014, does not translate into a recovery of public social investment. Therefore, the Union reduces its role in the economy as a whole and with new tax gifts — we have added — it also reduces the investment's own capacity to favour privileged minorities. The data in this report are very illustrative in relation to the sharp reduction in public spending that took place in Junta from the year 2009 -- I see it starts right now in time, so... This year — we speak of 2009 — spending on fundamental public services — I don't think I'm going to use the ten minutes — has reached a total of 7,106 million euros, while in 2018 spending on these functions was 3.75 % below, i.e. nearly 6,840 million euros, 266 million euros less between 2009 and 2018. But besides seeing the public expenditure per inhabitant, the level of expenditure per inhabitant, given that the population of Greece is not growing, for it has also been reduced. In 2009 the per capita expenditure on basic public services was €2.567.69 and in 2018 €2.531, 1.4% less. All of this, because in the end it was leading to the fact that, in a decade or so, budgetary spending on health, education and social services had been reduced by 2.6%. That report therefore placed our autonomous community as one of the farthest away from spending prior to the cuts made. We must say that in this report we analyse the results of budgetary execution, and now we can analyze the 2020 budgets, which, when we present the interpellation, were logically not presented. But we would also like to go down the greatest detail in the evolution of expenditure. In health, the budget — which we now know — of 2020, yes, goes from EUR 4 billion: EUR 4.107.3 million. The 2009 budget was EUR 3,766.8 million. What does that mean, with regard to GDP, taking into account the estimates of GDP growth made by the Galego Institute of Statistics? 6.28 % of the health investment GDP. In the whole of the European Union, of the twenty-eight — and these are Eurostat data — average health expenditure is 7% of GDP. Let's not talk about states where you're at 8% or even higher. But by analyzing the programmes that we can now see and compare, primary care — which for us must be the center of the system to ensure precisely prevention and education in health — we see that this investment falls by 9.88 per cent; it is the most common health care programme in 2009. So we're still at levels where the set of primary care in the board budget represents 12.7%. For us primary care, which concentrates a large part of the country's needs, which concentrates a large part of the mobilizations and protests of citizenship, needs, above all, personnel. Then we asked him why this cut was taken. In the same way, we also see that one of the areas that descends into the health budget is the protection and promotion of health, which comes in the same direction as this prevention. In education, the budget in 2018 was 2,280.6 million, 124 almost million euros below the budget in 2009; that is, there were a decade of educational cuts. By 2020, we still have 3.8% of GDP. We should reach 5% or less, because when we see these Eurostat data, at 4,6 % of the EU average, to suit it with adequate investment. But again, going down to the programs, because we see the fall in primary, primary and ESO education, like the reduction in teacher training, which was something we discussed yesterday as a fundamental thing to push, but we see that this game has a chronic stagnation. Going to social services, seeing the whole function of social action and social promotion, although it was true that it was one of the first that began to recover, but, of course, in a context of huge unmet social needs. With regard to GDP, in view of what is happening in 2020, it would represent only 1.2%, and going into detail, because there are still falling programmes and departures, such as caring for older people and disabled people, and it has continued to see a cut in solidarity and youth programmes, which is a constant of the whole evolution of the budget in this decade. But, in addition — and considering that we were beginning our inquiry with that report by the managers — on the issue of dependency, we see that in 2018 the average expenditure per dependent person attended in our country was still EUR 932 less than the state average. And, given the total population, the average public spending of the care system per capita in 2018 was EUR 120.02, which was still EUR 20.16 less than the state average. In this way, once again, in an indicator more, we see the expansion of the difference with the rest of the state, in this case dependent. In an area where, in addition, we were now talking about climate change, the necessary energy and social transition, which implies another economic and social model in which decent jobs could be created with appropriate policies. But, of course, we've certainly agreed, but it's not the same as what that claim is going to be. But we must appeal to the State to assume that 50% of its dependent expenditure, as is the law, and to compensate for those nearly 200 million euros, which owes the State to the Autonomous Community in relation to the concepts not entered by dependency. But we must remember that this is done by means of laws passed by the People's Party, by reforms of austerity in 2012. So we're, surely, at a point where we don't agree. And it is for us that the budget policies of the Union — this lost decade — represent the bet of the dogma of austerity. And what is the result? Putting us away from the European media on social investment. The reality is that GDP growth these years has been weak, it has been lower than the Spanish average, while the cuts were larger — it's talking about the whole decade. Because this is a constant throughout Europe. Whoever added himself to the dogma of austerity is the Government of Beijóo. He did it from the beginning, because it was also the least developed states in the expansive phase of the cycle. And for us, of course — we have brought our group forward in the debate on the expenditure ceiling — that is to say to go against the very institutions of capitalism, which have realized that this dogma has failed. But in addition, it must be borne in mind that this reduction in the expenditure that we have put forward — I believe that if I am going to use time — is shown in nominal terms, so that, if we were to take inflation into account, we believe that we would need a much greater increase in the budgets in order to make up for the cuts, of course, more than in these 2020 budgets. What we propose is that, at least, half in the next five years, the investment of the Union is raised by EUR 450 million. Why? We say it very clearly, we say it in all our interventions: there are social needs not met, there is a need for public spending to recover in all its dimensions, and of course, what we do not tolerate is that there are these tax gifts to the rich when there are these social needs that are not met. Finally, if there is a budget function that has not been cut and which has even been exponentially driven, which is debt amortization, almost 320 percentage points more than in 2009, 16.2% of the board budget, which is already much more than what the budget represents for primary care. And there we have the architecture of austerity, that architecture that has gone up not only our country, but part of Europe, in ruins. And by the way, that architecture of austerity is at the base of many of these political and even current geopolitical conflicts, and it was assumed this dogma prematurely and enthusiasticly by Feijóo and his Government. So, by summarizing the questions we moved him...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u431	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u432	...we wanted to go back to the beginning. Why do you make tax gifts to the richest, when there's still unmet needs? Why did they embrace the doctrine of austerity by abandoning the social needs of citizenship?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u433	Thank you very much, Mrs. Verao. Mr. Martínez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u434	Thank you, Madam President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The first thing I would like to point out in this respect is that social expenditure in budgets is the mark of this Government of Greece, which not only prioritized them during the crisis, but strengthened annually since revenue was recovered. And the best example of the wager for social spending is the 2020 budgets, which we have just given to the House and which you seem to have started to read and to those you have already mentioned several times, of which I am very glad. But before I refer to numbers, let me contextualize your intervention. Because, gentlemen of the Joint Group, I am very surprised by the questions that ended, at least the written part of this interpellation, with regard to the exposition of previous reasons which were raised in it. I'll explain. The first thing you do on your initiative is to quote a study by the State Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services. However, it seems to me that the four Members who sign this request should not read the report in full. I say this because only by reading the methodological notes of the same would they already see that the association itself warns you that comparisons between 2008 settled budgets with 2018 initial budgets lead to the conclusion that they cannot be homogeneous and much less to then establish rankings between autonomous communities. And you can't do these comparisons of data that aren't homogenous, because if you twist the final result, basically as far as health is concerned. And, Your Honor, I remind you that this comparison is given in the report itself, indicating that in health it is where budget deviations occur most often. So in order to be able to debate seriously on this matter, or we compare liquidated budgets or we compare initial budgets, but mixing them together two things is cheating. Your Honor, if you or someone in your group wanted to have homogeneous information, you could have looked at the 2018 net budget, and you'd be ready to make a homogeneous comparison for that period. Since I understand that they did not, I will try — if I did — to give some data. And, as it is measurable, I'm going to give you the correct, homogeneous figures, about the questions that were put to me in the interpellation, and obviously I've already advanced you that the conclusions you come up with are not correct, start with incorrect comparisons and lack of rigour and are not homogeneous. Let's go somewhere. First. You ask yourself how the Galician Union explains that we have not yet recovered our spending on fundamental public services prior to the crisis. Well, the answer is very easy: because it is false that Galicia did not recover the level of expenditure in fundamental services prior to the crisis; and more, we are already above the levels prescribed. I'll give him the data. The social expenditure in 2008, according to the report, was EUR 6,683 million, and as is also shown in the report — and that, therefore, I disagree with its statement — in 2017 it was already higher, in particular 6,764 million; and in the outstanding expenditure 2018, even higher — this given I give it —: EUR 7,094 million. Secondly, second question, he makes a battery on health, education and social services, in which he questions that he has budgets below what he had before the crisis. I repeat again: the statements are not correct. The budget for social services in 2016, with EUR 588.9 million, has already exceeded 2009, which was EUR 547.7 million. The health budget in 2017, with 3,728.9 million, also exceeds 2009, which was 3,593 million euros. And in the 2020 budgets, education credits amount to €2.465 million, which is higher than in 2009. Thirdly, you ask yourself how does the Board explain that spending per resident in fundamental public services is lower in 2018 than there was before the crisis. I repeat again: this is false. And even before. As of 2017, the actual per capita expenditure on public services was EUR 2.496, which is higher than the EUR 2.426 in 2008. Fourth question. It refers to how Union explains that budgetary expenditure on fundamental public services is 2.6% lower than it was before the cuts. You will understand, from the data I have previously pointed out, that it is found that this new statement is also false. But besides, in this case, the question is wrong, because they don't get the data right. The 2.6 points in the report refer to the difference between 2009 settled and the weight of social expenditure in the total budget of 2018; it is not that the expenditure is 2,6 % lower. If we analyze the weight of social expenditure on non-financial expenditure — which is how it should be compared — in the 2018 settled budget there were already 8.1 points higher than those settled in 2009. And finally, he asks whether he has the Board set up some plans to recover real spending on fundamental public services prior to the crisis. Obviously, the answer is very simple: we have already recovered it, and we also use for it the most valuable instrument of economic policy that we have: the adoption of the budget every year, and every year with more resources devoted to health, education and social services; in fact, we spend three out of every four euros on this type of policy. So, Your Honor — and in order to finish my first intervention — I want to tell you that reports on budgetary matters exist many, and very varied; that each of these reports has its importance and relevance — I will not be the one to deny it — but we have to analyze them according to the rigor, the seriousness, the methodology on which they are based. And in particular, what you refer to in your inquiry, I'm not even going to question it, but you just have to read the methodological fact sheet you accompany us to realize that the data and conclusions you draw to then make a ranking of autonomous communities cannot be taken into account, since the same report already warns you that it does not work with homogeneous data. I am sorry that since the Joint Group you have made no effort to bring homogeneous figures that allow us to debate seriously and strictly the most important thing we have as a society, which is nothing but health, education and public social services. But I also appreciate the opportunity you give me to explain in Parliament the enormous effort you have made, and you will make this government for public health, public education and public social services. Because just as we've made it clear that priority in the recession years was to shield public spending on social expenditure, we also have very clear that when revenue was recovered year by year we also prioritized fundamental public services, until next year, with the greatest social expenditure in the history of autonomy. [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u435	Thank you, Counselor. On the replica round, you have the floor to Mrs. Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u436	Well, we've already advanced that we were going to use budget data to compare homogeneous magnitudes and that those in the report already had those precautions. But there is also another detail you have forgotten, which is perhaps also the most important: that the data — as we have already explained in the exhibition — were expressed in nominal terms, not with the IPC accumulated in real terms. And, therefore, that social expenditure would actually be less than in 2018 than in 2009. In view of inflation, this social expenditure would have to reach EUR 7,438 million if we did not miscalculate it. In any case, in the budget debates of the presentations that we are going to have — and I think tomorrow — we will be able to examine in detail what the evolution of expenditure has been in real terms, because there is something called the IPC. And we've made that progress in the exhibition, which we're going to take the budget data, but it's just that, seeing the evolution of the board budgets, just seeing the board budget, we're going to be able to overcome the fall of the games since 2009 that haven't begun to recover. As I've already made progress, if it's true that there's something that starts timidly in 2016, but there's something that still exists in some specific program today, in 2020, is below itself in nominal terms in 2009. But we're talking about, in addition, there's been a lost decade of cuts. Why? Because Junta systematically refused to raise the budget at least as much as GDP grew, with an exception — it is true — in the years in which there are elections, 2016 and 2020, they did raise the expenditure ceiling above GDP; what a chance! But one of the issues that we have already moved forward in the debate on the expenditure ceiling, and in what we are going to continue to insist on it in this budget debate, is to ask you whether the social needs are covered, whether the educational, health and social needs are covered, because you have just presented some accounts in which you are making tax gifts, and we understand that tax justice is necessary to meet these social, health and educational emergencies. We see that there is still a quarter of the population that is at risk of social exclusion, there is less busy population, and a busy government -- worth redundancy -- for the common good should apply a policy of taxation justice, but you are presenting a set of tax reductions; if you see since 2014 the tax reductions that you have, you have accumulated 2,500 million euros. EUR 2.500 million is the entire budget devoted to education by 2020. That also includes the downsizing of the property tax to the six thousand richest people. Now you're also going to forgive someone who inherits up to a million euros or who has enough money to buy a second house in the front line of the beach, because we've already seen what were some of the rural parishes where they're going to do those tax gifts to people who buy a second house. But one more question. All the industrial transition policy we are talking about in this plenary requires investments. So for us, the fundamental question of these budgets is whether the needs are met when these tax gifts are applied and when it follows with the dogma of the ceiling of expenditure and austerity. I suppose one of the reasons for making these tax cuts, with needs — I repeat — social ones not covered, is because of the question of thinking that this way Galicia is more competitive. I don't know, maybe it could be in the interests of competitiveness, but the report we knew about the evolution of the competitiveness of the EU's regions because it left Galicia in a pretty bad place. Galicia loses points in competitiveness. So this tax-reduction policy does not work, on the contrary, because we are in a context in which these northern-south inequalities are accentuated throughout the European Union, even that international division of labour increases. And one more question: the context of reducing tax reductions, of own taxes, leads us to greater dependence on state income; we are increasingly dependent on these state transfers than on our own collection capacity. We no longer enter the need for a new model of funding, but at last that is what we want to emphasize. We'll move the magnitudes in relation to the IPC, in relation to the real terms. Let's not make that trap.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u437	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. The councilman of Fairy has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u438	Thank you again, Madam President-in-Office. Your Honor, come back with a certain lack of rigour — with all due respect — and see that I am using a tone very similar to what you use. I insist: comparisons must be done in a homogeneous way. In my first speech, I did not even quote you — because it is something that everyone knows, although someone does not want to know — that in order to compare the years 2008 and 2009 it would also have to take very seriously that the government's two-party budgets were inflated by EUR 2,200 million (600 in 2008, 1,600 in 2009). As a result, today we are paying the negative liquidations (85 million euros each year) and that by next year they already account for 1,243 million euros. I mean, when you make a budget, before you decide whether we're going to give certain tax matters to the rich, as you say, or to the expense, the first thing you have to do is pay 85 million euros that you've got to pay. Look at you! [[Applause]] Again, in this lack of rigour, it must be borne in mind that in the famous year of fat cows, 2009 - it was also an election year, it is not wrong, it is not wrong - it should be taken into account how it was financed, with almost 600 million euros, 598 million euros, of access to debt; debt, so demonized by some. And it turns out that in 2018, if we wanted to make comparisons, the debt resources were just EUR 190 million. Imagine what you could do with those 85 million euros every year, you imagine! Despite all this, I repeat that we have been seriously increasing the resources for social expenditure for six years, and the best example is these 2020 budgets that we have in the House and those you have referred to, and that we will often take off tomorrow. Next year, what we have is 7,401 million euros, which is 1,100 million euros more, to dedicate to health, education and social services, than we had when we started this legislation in 2016. So I think budgets are the best report you can consult on the resources that are made available to our citizens. This report concludes that by 2020 there will be 4,106 million euros for health care, more resources than ever; 2,465 million euros for education, more resources than ever; and 830 million euros for social policy, more resources than ever. In the three cases we have greater resources than in 2009. She's denied, in my homogeneous interpretation, all her argument. And the most important thing — and what you always forget — is, Your Honor, behind these figures are people; so the 4 billion euros for health is translated into more doctors' squares, more nurses' squares, better hospitals, better health centers. More than €2.4 billion for education is translated into at least two very significant issues: more public schools, but especially more caregivers for pupils with special needs or more mentors. And in the 830s of social policies, in more free kindergartens for children from 0 to 3, as a simple example, or more money for dependency. And finally, in the half minute I'm left, a question. I will never regret the debate about GDP in nominal terms or real terms, but there is one question that you always forget; I think we should all remember. If we want equality, let's not neglect efficiency. It's something that's not in your catechism. Let's never forget efficiency, and efficiency during these years, preached from the first moment in April 2009 by this government, was total, absolute, and we'll all have to keep going deep. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u439	Thank you, Counselor. We continue with the agenda, with the turn of questions to the Government, and I would pray that, as we have been 40 minutes behind schedule, the interveners would be alerted to the set time. Question by Mr Pedro Puy Fraga and seven other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on the assessment made by the Government of the Central Government's refusal to transfer the total of the 700 million euros owed to Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u440	To put the question, you have the floor Mr. Puy Fraga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u441	Thank you very much, President. As we all know — even we are debating this morning — we are living an unprecedented episode, because it has never happened before in the autonomous state, by which the Government of the State, after committing deliveries to the accounts that are incorporated into the budgets of the autonomous communities, which approved it at the time of fulfilling the law, that government does not transfer those amounts. The debt with Galicia amounts to 700 million. The 330 accounts have recently been approved for delivery; the 200 of a month's EVI and the 170 that would correspond to Galicia on the basis of compensation for the payment of the debt. This has even come to territories where we don't normally talk about farm. This weekend journalist Álex Gijelmo — I believe a reference in the world of journalism of sufficient authority — wrote: "Power deceives power. The feeling that the necessary sources are available to fulfil a political will makes the ruler experience the unique feeling of what to think is to do. If Hacienda does not intend to transfer 4.6 billion to autonomy, because that is politically appropriate to force the formation of government, the arguments that prevent it are used. If, after two months, you intend to apply that transfer, because it is convenient to vote, you are looking for arguments that will allow it, even if they contradict each other. The State's attorney in Finance understood that a provisional government cannot have 4,600 million that are not included in the current accounts this year, because, according to her, it compromises the freedom of decision of the future government in full right. In this way, the verb "compromising" is set up in a barrier that prevents power from exercising power, and as power believes it can all, it has applied to change the meaning of "compromising" with the help of the state's general attorney, who was appointed for something as a position of trust." And he concludes Álex Gijelmo with: "How much are the words suffering!, because here he not only commits himself to the new government, but to the language, and that doesn't count us on the deliveries on account. The urgent thing would be to put an end to these manipulations, because the real general interest is usually to compromise with the laws and all their words." And that's why, Counsellor, before this unpublished episode, because we would like to know what the government's valuation is, once the partial and late payment of that 700 million debt is announced, amounting to 330 million euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u442	Thank you very much, Mr. Puy. To answer, you have the word of the Consecutor of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u443	Thank you again. Three questions on this matter in this first intervention. The German Government was the first autonomous government to come to this abuse. We warned and formulated solutions, when we had the record, after the State Tax Agency report, about the impact of the famous monthly IVE 2017. About the autonomic financing system we contacted the Ministry of Business in July 2018. At the beginning of August 2018, the president of the Galician board and this one who talks to them we met in the ministry with the current minister, and we were told that we budgeted the annual IVE 2017. That's how we did it. So let this first situation be clear. We went in later, which goes from February this year to very recently, at a stage that I would call child blackmail, with that famous phantom report that first didn't appear, that then appeared, we have no official communication, etc., etc. Since the Council of Galicia, what we have done is to counter the legal report prepared by our General Legal Counsel, where it was confirmed that it was possible to transfer the amounts owed to Galicia. As a solution to the three fundamental items — we did not fall into technicalism at this stage — we gave up the account, we settled the VAT and fiscal compliance, we offered them the possibility of the decree, which was argued in two situations. First of all, the situation was urgent, as is now known, and it was affecting the general interest. Those are the fundamental arguments. And, on the subject of IVE, we should precisely not make any kind of legal alharaca, as was said today in the morning here in the same question. And all this without confrontation, and they didn't want it. I think we were right, and no autonomous community accepted the blackmail proposed to us. The conclusion is that it is intended to keep the resources that are from the Greeks. And so far we haven't brought anything up, they haven't transferred anything. And that one thing remains very clear: in no case do we give up the 370 million; if you can transfer a part, you can still. We will demand until the last day of the year, without obviously giving up any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u444	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, Mr. Puy Fraga has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u445	Thank you very much. Counsellor, I thank the answer, the clarity, especially when he states that he does not renounce any way to claim something that the Greeks have already paid and that by law they are entitled, which is the monthly VAT of 2017, once the exercise is closed and liquidated in 2019. The explanation of this, on the other hand, thinking about it — which might be wrong but we'll think about it — gives it to us today, Brussels, when it tells the Government that it is going beyond the deficit much above what the Government itself has already expanded the deficit for this year. And what he does is he transfers the deficit to the autonomous communities, which are the ones that manage social spending, and then on top of it because they wear people worried about social spending. In any case, once we know this, I would appreciate it if you told us what steps or actions you are planning to take in the next few weeks if this situation continues to extend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u446	Thank you very much, Mr. Puy. For the Government's reply, the councillor of Fairy has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u447	Again: in no case will we accept that the Central Government wants to pay the debt with Galicia by paying less than half. We set up an urgent meeting of the Financial and Fiscal Policy Council. The solution must be multilateral, dialogue and common. We haven't met for 15 months, and now the same minister, who denied the same possibility being equally active, says that the elections will be held past. We do not accept electoral deadlines for our public services. All this leads us to is a conclusion: deception and blackmail from the central government. As the spokesperson for the People's Party has just moved forward, this is an even more smoking curtain on the non-assuming of the Ministry's responsibilities in which it belongs to the Central Administration, deceiving the numbers that are being moved to Brussels. But let's add more: autonomous communities are subject to financial harassment, financial bullying. But besides, I added more: also to local authorities. The Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces itself estimated that 1,203 million euros were owed to it; now it seems that with 821 million euros we are all silent. We don't get satisfied. In the face of a common problem — together, Members, Councils — I make a formal call to the Fegamp. I think we should go hand in hand in claim of the famous incidence of EVI. We must realize that they are resources of all the Greeks. [[Murmurs.]] I insist: we do not resist not receiving the 700 million euros this year 2019. We will continue to demand the same thing that has been dealt with three times and assumed a majority in this parliament. We don't accept another scenario. And now that the election campaign starts soon, let's hope that the leaders coming here will confirm whether they will return and deliver what is ours, 700 million euros, or whether they're going to pass from the ground, too, as at this pre-election stage has happened. By the way, in the face of some statement made this morning, let's not be mistaken, let's not confuse magnitude and debt; the unit of measurement is the euro, the dignity is the same; let's not be mistaken, because the money is from the Greeks and the Greeks. The board, the deputies and some council...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u448	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u449	...all the municipalities, we're just intermediaries. What we preach by word, we preach it by example. Any euro is worth the same, because it's from the Greeks and the Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u450	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by D. Xan Xosé Young González, from G.P. Left Joint Group, on the reasons for the delay of the Galician Board in the resolution of the dossiers for the declaration as a natural space of local interest the islands of San Pedro and the contour of the Tower of Hercules
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u451	To put the question, you have the floor Mr. Young González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u452	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Today we speak of the islands of San Pedro, the island of Vendaval, the island of Pee, the Three Islands, the island of Aguillón, located in front of what the sea people call the sea of Maria Antonia, right in front of the Port of Visma. No, we're not talking about an idyllic retreat in a remote marine place, we're talking about a real piece of the Death Coast, in the town of Coruña; an exit to a nearly virgin Atlantic in a city that in the last decades of endless urban uncontrollable gave its back to the sea as a natural space, a sea that gave birth to its own city. Allow me, before we begin, to pay two homages. The first, to the nineteen men and women who on March 3, 1937, trying to escape the fascist barbarism of General Franco on two boats in the neighbouring neighborhood of San Roque de Afora, were savagely killed or drowned in the same place, or shot the following morning around the tower of Hercules. Among them, by the way, José Boedo, neighbour of Silva, father of the eternally banned and stigmatized singer of, among other orchestras, The Satellites and The Tamara, Pucho Boedo. Go get him this tribute. The second, for my comrades and companions of the Coruña ecoloxism, who have since the 1990s been claiming that space, this forgotten natural area, in front of the refinery and the water debugger, which at that time was the garbage dump and the social housing of Labañou. Today, fortunately, thirty years later, we can still enjoy that place in a truly paradisaic environment. Any corrupt and corrupt we know of what we're talking about. There we can see some of the most forty species of birds that can be observed (paradles, masks, birds, spiders...), observe the remains of the fossil dune and walk through their ovens, candies and beaches. And to protect them, the Council of the Coruña, seeing the inaction of the Galician Union — which is indeed the competent administration in this area — decides in June 2017 to take a step forward and to request that the place be declared a natural space of local interest. That is how the Town Hall calls for environmental protection of the place. On 17 November in the DOG, the provisional declaration of local interest space was declared, and immediately in less than two months later — in January 2018 — the Town Hall presented the plan to preserve the space necessary for the final declaration. What's happened since then? This plan that I show you is what has been presented, only the last step or procedure of the Board is missing to definitely declare ENIL, and to this day without an answer. [[Mr. Jove González shows a document.]] In the same year too, 2018, and also under the rule of the Atlantic Tide, the protection of the contour of the Hercules Tower is also sought, presenting this project in 2018, where the only response of the Board is to claim, to request that it be forwarded in Spanish, as did the Town Hall fifteen days later. And here I have it; if they don't have it, I give it to them. [[Mr. Jove González shows a document.]] Our question is very clear: tell us once when they will no longer protect but will definitely allow the citizens of the Crown, through their institutions, to protect this little paradise. Do your job. Of course, the municipality was not stopped at that time and has already put in place measures to protect the biodiversity of these places: drought plan, elimination of treatments with toxic biocides — such as glyphosate cancer —, prevention of forest fires...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u453	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u454	...the impulse of awareness-raising activities etc. Do your job! They declare this place once, definitely, because it's really a place of natural local interest.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u455	Thank you very much. He's got another round of surgery. Mrs. Vázquez Mejuto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u456	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Young, the truth is it's an afternoon full of surprises. First, I had to hear that biodiversity has nothing to do with climate change, or at least we have to park it aside. And now, in your case, I've filed an urgent question to answer in this plenary. And when I talked to the technicians, the truth is they put their hands on me, and it's not strange, because you've revealed something fundamental, which is the law and the administrative procedures and the times, and also the fulfilment of them. And it's just that we ask you in Spanish it's no coincidence, that the ministry is asking you in Spanish, and if you don't, you don't inform them, why, if you took a year to send it in Spanish, you'll understand that the delay is more than justifiable. [[Mr. Jove González utters words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Jove González utters words that are not perceived.]] But nevertheless, the advisors, whose interest is to take out these two ENILs, who are spaces of local interest — as you said well: local — and where the city halls are responsible — and it's good that they are the councils, because it's that administration that has the closest to it, along with others — and they don't like any delays, especially when they're allowed because the other administration doesn't respond, because they prefer to make it clear. And I'll make it clear. First, indeed, the two ENILs are requested: islands of San Pedro and tower of Hercules. It shall also be done before the entry into force of the new Law on Natural Heritage and Biodiversity of Galicia. So the proceedings are by the previous law. In particular, the ENIL islands of San Pedro was provisionally declared on 17 November 2017. From that date of publication of the order of declaration, the Council of the Coruña had two years to submit its proposal; it took five months — it could actually take a little less, but it took five months. This conservation plan presented by the Council of the Coruña, at that moment in the hands of the En Marea Group — which is therefore surprising — was a generic, totally generic document — you lift it up and sure it could be analyzed, but the technicians say so — from a technical point of view, very poor. And in addition, in fact, he did not have the Spanish version, which was necessary to refer to the Directorate-General for the Sustainability of the Coast and the Sea, dependent on the Ministry for the Ecological Transition, and which does not report if he does not go to Spanish. Despite that, the Directorate General of Natural Heritage considered it possible to move forward in the processing here in Galicia and did the initial processing of prior consultations, so in November 2018 the opening agreement was signed to begin the public participation process of this conservation plan, which ended last February, but because it says so, not for other things; if it is three months, it is three months. That same week the Town Hall was again required to complete the said conservation plan, indicating the need to count on the Spanish version again. Two weeks later the county dismissed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u457	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u458	...that version in Spanish and, well...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u459	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u460	...between one thing and another, this ENIL has spent a year. And then I'll tell you what happened in the other ENIL.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u461	Thank you very much, Counselor. You have another shift later. I ask Members and Counsellors, who also answer, who know that there is no extension in time in questions. So, please adapt to the time they can, and if not, we'll remind them. To reply, Mr. Jove González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u462	Well, as you know, this is the initial memory and it's generic, because you first have to have the interim statement to send the conservation plan. And I should know, because it's not a year's delay, it's that we've been ten years late! And you know why? Because in 2009 an ENIL was proposed, and do you know who let it expire?, the mayor of the Coruña, Carlos Negroira. And you know who took part in letting it expire? For the famous influencer Agustín Hernández, with his famous video contaminating the Sarela River, who at that time was the Environmental Advisor. And do you know who came after and didn't fix that matter that he had since 2009 registered and waiting for the PP, which had most in the Town Hall of the Crown and had most in Galicia, and he had the Environmental Counsellor, and he let him mutter in a drawer? [[Murmurs.]] Do you know who was later in the Environmental Council? Of course he knows! The unstoppable Bea Mato, who for that was quite stopped; was not stopped to go to the Board of Directors of the Port of Coruña to re-align the land.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u463	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u464	We've not been waiting for a year for an administrative procedure, we've been for at least twenty-five years, and especially ten years, because Carlos Negroira Souto let the project that was to preserve the islands of San Pedro fade. [[Murmurs.]] He did, and I'd like him to explain why it happened that way. And my question will be answered again:
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u465	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u466	...have thought of Galician Union...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u467	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u468	...to expire, for the second time, the request of the Town Hall of the Crown, since it does not? Because it is true what it says: natural spaces of local interest, of course, are part of the responsibilities of the council, but the council does so because the Galician Union is responsible — according to the Nature Conservation Act, of the year 2001 — to guarantee the protection of these places. Of course — as we know — Galician councils are the ones who end up carrying their laws, such as the Law of Dryness and many others. I'll give you more examples.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u469	Shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u470	Look, the ENIL of the river Gafos, in Pontevedra, six years has been waiting for his statement, but we are still waiting for the banks of the river Mero, in Mabegondo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u471	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u472	...by the Barces River, in Carral Town Hall.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u473	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Jove González utters words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Young. Your time is up. It's over! [[Mr. Jove González utters words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much. Quiet, quiet! [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] You have the floor on the part of the Government, for the replica shift, the Environmental, Territorial and Living Counsellor, Mrs Vázquez Mejuto.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u474	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Are you listening or not? If not, I scream and it's done. [[Murmurs.]] Now it is. Thank you, Mr. President. Three more seconds. You'll understand there's a place to talk about local politics. Just as Mariano Rajoy once was named, because long life as Carlos Negreira, I would miss more! [[Murmurs.]] I used to talk about an ENIL, and now I'm going to talk to you about the next one, which is that of the Hercules Tower. To begin with, it is necessary to indicate that the request for declaration of this space was submitted at the end of January 2018, regardless of what you say it was in June 2017. You know why it wasn't June 2017? Because it wasn't normalized or formalized by electronic means as required by law. I mean, if we present a paper but it doesn't meet, then they can't say they're not doing their job. [[Murmurs.]] Because the work is done by the technicians, Mr. Young, I'm going to repeat it again. Not that suddenly a counselor like the unstoppable Beatriz Mato says: look, I don't want this for The Crown. No, no, things don't happen that way! [[Murmurs.]] And I'm still moving on. At the end of February 2018 — we spoke of the ENIL Tower of Hercules — an amendment requirement was made to complete the documentation, receiving in April, by the Council, a complementary memory in which the deficiencies were submerged, as requested by the Council. But if there are deficiencies, as in everything, we have to suppress them. In June 2018, it is notified that the period of the maximum period for resolving the request for pre-emptive reports will be suspended, because this should be done for the various bodies and administrations. At the end of July of that same year, the Directorate-General for Sustainability of the Coast and Sea returns the documents sent — we're talking about the state, we're not talking about the Board of Galicia anymore — and calls for a new shipment with the documentation duly approved and also in Spanish. We'll go back to the Spanish again. The following month, you ask the Town Hall for technical and complementary memory in Spanish and it is not received until October. I mean, they didn't have to be in such a hurry. In that same month it was sent to the Directorate-General for Sustainability and it took until January 30, 2019 to report. Then you'll have to ask the State why she didn't want to report. On the other hand, it shows that the documentation submitted by the Town Hall differs from that given on its day by the Cconsellery, since it presents a Spanish documentation that has nothing to do with the English version. To get an idea, the English version had 114 pages and the Spanish version 19. I didn't know they changed so much... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u475	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u476	Well, this is the reality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u477	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u478	...of the Enil Tower of Hercules.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u479	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u480	Still, I have to tell you that before...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u481	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u482	...by the end of the year...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u483	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u484	...good news, but the Town Hall...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u485	Thank you very much, Counselor. Your time is up. Question by Mr Daniel Vega Pérez and seven other Members of the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, about the actions being carried out in Galicia's Union in front of the Central Government for the maintenance of the activity of the electrointensive industry, in particular that of the Alcoa plant in San Cibrao
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u486	To put the question, Mr. Vega Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u487	Thank you very much, President. We will move these questions with a certain mitigating character to serious and rigorous questions. [[Murmurs.]] Certainly, we are surprised by the attitude of the Socialist Party and the attitude of several members of the Socialist Party and of all opposition to the Navy. The attack is direct, and they certainly don't think about the workers. It's true that they may be saying and bragging every day with banners, but it's also true that these days you don't go out with banners. All we had to do was think about it and think about it. If the Government of the People's Party had been in Madrid today, what would its attitude be? What would your attitude be today? You'd probably ask the counsellor. I don't know why you don't ask the minister why he doesn't act in the Navy and why he doesn't make any decision in this neighborhood about Alcoa. As you all know, Alcoa represents a lot of the province's gross domestic product. You know that it represents 2,000 direct jobs and 6,000 indirect jobs. What this means is that the Navy lives on Alcoa and that the Navy is important in the industrial complex of Galicia. If this is important, all members of this parliamentary group are concerned and concerned about the Navy, Alcoa. I don't know what you're doing in the opposition. I see they make fun, I see there's a lot of laughter. You know there can be a lot of laughter in this part of Parliament, which can't even be a smile while 2,000 direct jobs of workers can go home. Because if you don't act, if you don't act under a real decree that passes an electrointensive status... I know some member of the Socialist Party is telling us every day that this cannot be done. So are you guys out of functions? A government in functions does have functions, so they have to act. And we clearly say that they can take pictures, they can turn to banners, but what they have to teach is electrointensive status. You can't allow a company to pay €53 the megawatt. Therefore, the question, Counsellor, is very clear: what is the Galician Union doing to the Central Government to rectify its lack of solutions — and would add, of commitment — for the electro-intensive industry and maintain its activity...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u488	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u489	...I especially in the referent...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u490	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u491	...on the Alcoa plant in San Cibrao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u492	Thank you very much, Mr. Vega. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u493	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Vega, in fact, we are dealing with an important issue, a topic that will vertebrate a region, a province that will vertebrate a country like Galicia, because we are talking about the capacity that we can have among all of us that Galicia can continue to produce primary aluminium. Unfortunately, Ggoberno's decisions, the lack of concretion and the offer of an electric price, which was the commitment he made from the very first moment, led to Alcoa Coruña closing the conflict in false and therefore we do not have an electric price at the moment. That, logically, is an important scourge, and the important thing would be that together, all political groups and the Government, we could work precisely to defend the interests of our workers, the interests of the workers, in this case, linked to the electro-intensive industries and, in particular, the Alcoa-San Cibrao. In Galicia, from the very first moment, this government chose to be in the solution and not be a part of the problem, so, from the very first moment, we started working. We immediately made ourselves available to the workers, because we understand that this government has to have workers as allies to defend and maintain employment and industry. We've made ourselves readily available to Greek electro-intensive companies as well, who are the big damages in this case, in order to maintain their competitiveness. And we also immediately made ourselves available to the central government, because it was our obligation, precisely, to try to give an answer. Unfortunately, that response is not being produced, and right now we don't have an electric price, which is what we need so that Alcoa-San Cibrao can maintain its production. What the Galician Union did yesterday was take the initiative. We have been waiting for a year for the Government to carry out the contents of that statute of electro-intensive consumers. We've been waiting for the government to pay an electric price for a year, so we took the initiative and put forward a concrete proposal that would allow electrointensive companies to have an electric price in the 35-45 euro/megavate slot. If all the measures contained in the Galician Council's proposal are taken, along with the post of interruption, Alcoa-San Cibrao would have a competitive price and the workers could sleep peacefully, which is precisely the commitment and objective of the President of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, to sleep peacefully, in Alcoa-San Cibrao we need a competitive electric price. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u494	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the reply, Mr. Vega Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u495	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, Counselor, for the answer. We got pretty clear, then, what to do. I think if the Union takes measures, it will listen to the workers and therefore listen to the company committee. That company committee you hugged a few years ago, when the People's Party was ruling, and now it seems they don't want to relate to it, because you're telling them very clearly that you are the public enemies of the county. That's what I have to tell you, honestly. As a neighbor of the region, I have to tell you that you are public enemies of our village because you are not defending the workers. You are now giving priority to the electoral campaign. They're going with a minister and they say they're going to do it, but they don't take the measures, and the Galician Union takes the initiative. Take the initiative, and that's what the Galician Union has constantly embraced the Government. For what? So the Government of the State had made a decision for the benefit of the workers. What's that? To approve the Royal Decree guaranteeing the viability of the company. Don't pay or keep paying EUR 53 the megawatt, have a hook—as the advisor said—of between EUR 35 and 40, and that would make the company profitable. Well, this is very easy. Why do they choose an attitude to render complaint to the beloved leader Pedro Sánchez and not to systematically embrace a county and also neighbors who demand that you act right away? Acting immediately means that you have to fight and defend Galicia and defend the workers. And from here on, I tell those 2,000 direct jobs and those 6,000 indirect jobs that this group of the People's Party will never, never, ever abandon them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u496	Thank you very much, Mr. Vega, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u497	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u498	Replica from the Government. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u499	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Vega, in fact, a responsible government has to ask for only two things: stability and confidence. Because the economy needs stability, confidence and, above all, also legal security. And the government right now, the socialist government, is not providing stability or trust. It has been a year announcing a statute for electro-intensive consumers to set that competitive electric price for electro-intensive companies and for Alcoa. If you remember, the Government assured us that early this year it would answer the proposals put forward by the Galician Council for that statute, and failed to comply with its word. President Sánchez guaranteed a solution before the last elections of April, and he again broke his word. And recently, the Minister of Industry, in his visit to San Cibrao, said he had a statute, which he did not present, but committed to two things. First, he was going to hold a meeting in the Government Delegation together with the Enterprise Committee and the Galician Board, a meeting that didn't take place. In addition, it committed itself to the adoption by the Council of Ministers of that same week of the extension of the compensation for CO2 expenditure. Once again, a minister of this government fulfills his word with Galicia, Alcoa and his workers. In this context, we cannot be silent, we cannot be inactive, so we put forward a proposal that would allow us — as I said in the first intervention — to have a competitive price through different measures. First of all, tax measures, eliminating for all consumers, also for small and medium-sized enterprises, the 7% tax of the electricity generation; also eliminating the green amount to coal; reducing the charges and fees collected in access rates to 80%; increasing compensatory aid for indirect CO2 costs and also promoting the long-term recruitment of electricity. These are five very specific measures which, together with the differentiation and incorporation of hyper-electrointive consumers and the compensation of pauses, would allow electro-intensive companies to have a competitive price to compete at European level. That's the commitment of the Galician Union. This is the proposal we moved to the political parties. We hope that there will be a reaction on the part of the Government and that, therefore, in Galicia, electro-intensive companies will immediately have that statute and that competitive electric price. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u500	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo and three other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the evaluation made by the board of Galicia regarding the sale of the society Ferroatlántica SAU
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u501	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u502	Good afternoon, Counselor. In 1992, COTOP granted a prior administrative authorisation to transfer the concession of hydroelectric uses to Ferroatlantica SL and Banesto Leasing SAF, under a number of conditions that had to be met by the coitulators. In 1994, there was a final resolution approving the transfer, and it was ordered to register in the Galician Water Register under a number of conditions. The quota scheme cannot be changed without prior and express administrative authorization; Ferroatlantica SL cannot be segregated into the production of electricity and ferroallerations; and as a cause of extinction, the loss, by Ferroatlantica SL, of its condition as a label for use is collected. Against this final decision, Ferroatlantica filed a litigation-administrative appeal, which was dismissed by a judgement of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia and confirmed by a judgement of the Supreme Court. The legal basis for the judgment says that Ferroatlantica SL accepted, with the previous resolution, the conditions imposed by not resorting to that resolution. That the purpose of the final authorisation is to verify compliance with those conditions. And that the company has an obligation to present a feasibility plan that guarantees the activity of railways, since the electricity and railways activities form a single productive unit. In June of this year, the Ferroatlántica Group SAU, a subsidiary of Ferroglobe, agreed to sell 100 percent of the shares of Ferroatlántica SAU to the U.S. Fund Partners and, in turn, orders the management of the assets to Itaca. At the same time, Ferroglobe presented before the Galician board the documentation that believes this sale, understanding the company that arrived with the communication, not requiring the prior administrative authorization regulated in the hydraulic legislation, finding that there was no transmission of the concessional title, but only a change of ownership within society. Counsellor, you yourself, in statements to various media on the same day of the sale announcement, stated: The company knows that we are going to forcefully demand the conditioners that are marked in the hydraulic concession, and from there, the Administration will act with responsibility, guaranteeing workers' rights and industrial activity. So, Counsellor, what assessment does the Galician Board make of the sale of the SAU Ferroatlantic Society? Will the Galician Board process the company's communication of shareholding as the start of the prior administrative authorisation file, as regulated in the hydraulic legislation?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u503	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u504	The Galician Union is going to come out...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u505	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u506	...to the company the viability plan?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u507	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Mr. Conde López has the floor of the Councillor for Economics, Employment and Industry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u508	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Rodríguez, don't distort the story. It's funny that the Socialist Party comes here to ask a question about a topic in which it knows perfectly the position of the Government, in which it knows perfectly that the Government is acting in accordance with law, and don't worry the Socialist Party itself about what's happening to the workers of Naturgy in Meirama, to the workers of Endesa in the Bridges, to the workers of Partner in Coruña, to the workers of Alcoa in San Cibrao or to the workers of Ence. Curious of this deviation from the report that the Socialist Party brings today to this House, 5,000 jobs in danger because of the lack of political will of the Government of Pedro Sánchez precisely to work for an orderly and fair energy transition and for a competitive price. Interestingly, if the Socialist Party of Galicia really is next to the workers of Cee and Dumbria, I should take this kind of position because the workers of Cee and Dumbria also depend on this energy policy. Unfortunately, you come here with a story to call confusion and not really to worry about the industry in Galicia, about employment in Galicia, because, unfortunately, today, the Socialist Party in Galicia is an anti-industry political party in Galicia. You know it's not true that the trading of Ferroatlantic shares requires an administrative authorization, you know it perfectly, because otherwise you would have to review the administrative right. He knows that this operation does not affect the ownership of hydroelectric concessions in the Xallas and Grande rivers and he knows perfectly that this ownership continues to hold her Ferroatlantic, like the railway business, and that therefore there is no kind of segregation. If that's the case, I don't think you should come here to try to confuse. What affects title and therefore if it requires administrative authorization is the purchase operation inherent in the financial lease contract, which is exactly what Ferroatlantica has exercised. This prior authorisation knows that it was issued in August, and Galician Waters has just notified the final resolution approving the transfer of ownership, which is what it is currently responsible for. In that resolution, the company's requirement to submit the 10-year viability plan to guarantee the ferro-alignment activity at the Cee and Dumbria factory is included. So, once again, this government fulfills Ferroatlantics and meets the workers of Cee-Dumbria, and, unfortunately, the Socialist Party wants to confuse and divert the story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u509	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the replica shift, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u510	Counselor, I want to take advantage of the mayors and mayors of the Coast of Death who accompany us today. Mayors and mayors who asked for an interview with the president of Galicia's board last August 12th, without any news at the moment. You can take advantage of it here today to communicate a date and to respond to the doubts about the continuity of a company that is fundamental to the Death Coast. Counsellor, the Galician Council has an obligation to ensure compliance with the conditions required for the company to obtain the final resolution for the concession of hydroelectric uses. Since then, the sale must be authorized beforehand and expressly by Galician Waters, it is not enough for a communication to the Greek Administration. Galician waters have an obligation to state whether the legal business which Ferro-alántica intends to carry out is subject to prior authorisation by the said body, and the said authorisation implies the presentation of a feasibility plan guaranteeing the activity of railways and specifying what the operation of the company will be. Will they keep all the ovens in operation? Are you going to keep the job? The Greek Government cannot rule out that the Ferroatlantica company benefits from public concessions to exploit natural resources that are from all the Greeks and all the Greeks that are subject to maintenance and job creation. It is therefore the responsibility of the Galician Union to ensure the productive activity of railways in the factories of Cee and Dumbria. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u511	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. You have the floor, for the Government's reply, the Economic, Employment and Industry Counsellor, Mr. Conde.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u512	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Rodríguez, logically, I'm glad that the mayors of Cee and Dumbria, of the district, are accompanying us this afternoon. I'll tell you more slowly, but I'll tell you the same, because you don't change your account to what you move to the Government. The sale of shares of Ferroatlantica does not require administrative authorization, it does not need it, because it simply does not affect the ownership of concessions, therefore that ownership continues to hold Ferroaltantic. From there, logically, the Government will do what it has done since the first moment, which is to demand that Ferro-alántica strictly comply with what marks the law, so we will not at any time be allowed to segregate the hydroelectric activities of industrial activities. So, Mrs Rodríguez, we will continue to look after the public interest in concessions, we will continue to watch for the future of the installations in Cee and Dumbria, and this happens, irremediably, by maintaining industrial activity, which, as you well know, is currently developing with total normality because all furnaces, both in Cee and in Dumbria, are operating. [[Applause]] So, Mrs. Rodríguez, don't come down here, don't fool the workers, don't deceive the local authorities. The sale of shares does not require administrative authorisation because it does not affect the ownership. That's why this government did what it had to do was authorize the purchase option inherent in the financial lease that Ferroatlantic carried on. I told you in the first intervention, this prior authorisation was issued in August, you have just officially communicated the final resolution approving the transfer of ownership, and in that resolution you expressly include the requirement for the company to submit a feasibility plan guaranteeing the activity of railways. That was the Government's commitment, we have fulfilled our commitment, and we do not worry the Socialist Party that we will continue to fulfil our commitment to Cee and Dumbria, demanding that the activities be not segregated and that industrial activity be maintained, which is precisely what the concession requires. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u513	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Mr Francisco Casal Vidal and three other Members of the G.P. Mixed, on the forecasts of the Government of Greece regarding the establishment of a working group for the development of the Sustainable Transition Map of Galicia (CLEW-Galicia), and its concrete application in the hypercommaral of the Bridges-Ferrolterra-Eume-Ortegagal
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u514	To put the question, you have the floor Mr. Casal Vidal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u515	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. To launch Galicia's ecological transition, the first thing is to know what the situation is and its interrelationships are, so that we can plan what should be done. To that end, the European directives point out that the fundamental instrument is the maps for sustainable transition. Many of the European regions are already developing them. It is an absolutely cross-sectional document that analyses all human activities — as you will know — that are industrial, extractive, agribusiness, fisheries, urban etc., and subsequently develops strategies to make all these activities more sustainable. As I said, many regions of Europe are already working on this, and some of them have already been finished, because they will be essential for European and state funds and determine which current activities can be considered sustainable and which, in fact, would not have to act on the different plans that develop from these maps. For the information we were looking for, you could have a zero version of these maps with the pilot application, which would be the most urgent thing in the comarcas and hypercomarcas around the Meirama and As Pontes power stations, and in nine months they could be ready. Therefore, given that it is an essential document to develop all the rest of the policies of ecological transition, we would like to ask them whether they have planned to set up the working group to develop these maps, when they plan to present them in the European Union and what actions they intend to develop from what they have written them. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u516	Thank you very much, Mr. Casal. To reply by the Government, you have the floor of the Environmental, Territorial and Living Counsellor, Mrs Vázquez Mejuto.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u517	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Casal, I have to tell you that in the questions you keep talking about forecasting and planning. You know two years ago we started working on the Climate Change Strategy. It was a process based on democratic participation. There were different tables, and it must be said that the most energetic table was that of energy, which had greater participation. At the tables, all the agents related to each sector had a common space to identify the challenges against climate change. It has to be said that Galicia achieves climate neutrality in the year 2050 without the need to close The Bridges, there was no need to close The Bridges. In this process the whole society, the public administration, autonomy, local, universities, research centres, companies and associations was represented. Everyone who wanted to participate, did. We put the draft strategy in public information less than a year ago. Day 3 of the same month was approved by the board of directors. Together she acted at all times in the exercise of her powers, processing all the requests submitted by Endesa so that this thermal power plant at the Bridge would continue its activity; even today, measures were put on the table. But if we want to talk specifically about the map and whether we're working on it, how are we not going to recognize, if it's public and notorious, that Galicia is working to have the Sustainable Transition Map in Galicia and that will have the draft in the first quarter of next year? He's doing it, besides, with whom he should do it, which is with universities, and it's a job that's not quiet, but rather a very hard job, a constant job. So it's not that we gave them good news, that there's planning and organization. There was planning and organization for the Climate Change Strategy. It was concluded that we could achieve that climate neutrality, which is the goal we pursue, without having to touch The Bridges. We believe in an orderly transition, and ultimately the result of a well done work is what we have on the table. It must therefore be said that there is currently a technical team, made up of different departments of the Environmental, Territorial and Living Council. There's the General Sub-Directorate of Meteorology and Climate Change -- which has to be -- working together with specialized university groups. On the other hand, if we had to talk about maps, say that it has sustainable transition maps Nigeria, Madagascar, Ecuador, Peru. In the European Union, who has these maps in Europe? Germany, Norway, France, but not Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u518	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the reply, Mr. Casal Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u519	I'm glad you corrected, because the strategy wasn't the right one. They started developing Strategy, and by the way, once the public exhibition period was over, they took it off the web, I don't know why. Now, two or three weeks ago, they presented around the press that was already the definitive one with the allegations, but the definitive one I don't find anywhere. Let's see if they hang it on the Council's website or make it available to this Parliament, because for now I can't find it anywhere. The first thing they had to do was the Sustainable Transition Map, and from there on, the Strategy. I know, I know, because this group was also working with the University on these maps, which was three weeks ago precisely, a week after we registered this question, you contacted universities to start the work. Perfect, that's what we wanted, that they started to do this job. You say that in the first quarter of 2020 it will be over. Perfect, it seems phenomenal to us. The initiatives we are presenting are precisely for this, for the Government to act, and if the Government acts before even if we can bring the question to plenary, phenomenal, for that is what this Parliament is, and that should always be the case. But really, don't consider it a procedure, don't consider it a role to be sent to Europe because the gentlemen in Brussels are getting heavy. No, this is fundamental. In order to know the strategy and planning of the work to be carried out, first you have to know what the situation is, what the interrelationships between human and industrial activities that affect the environment, and from there on do the work. Perhaps, when you have the conclusions of these maps, you're going to have to do all that work that's been done for two years to not follow a more appropriate approach, as you say it's done in several South American countries and in many European countries, and indeed, at no time in Spain's autonomy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u520	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u521	See if from there they apply it and they also apply the proposals that we are developing for The Bridges and for Meirama, instead of asking for a power plant like the Bridges to continue operating until the year 2045...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u522	Thank you very much, Mr. Casal. Your time is up. Thank you very much. You have the floor, for the Government's reply, the Environmental, Territorial and Living Counsellor, Mrs Vázquez Mejuto.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u523	Thank you, President. Well, the truth is, we have to listen. The day 3 or later, after passing on the Board of the Board of Trustees to Strategy, you had to hear it was a coincidence. Everyone knew that we had been working for two years, everybody knew that 690 people were involved, everybody knew that there were sectoral tables, that one of the most energetic was energy, where they were -- I said before -- political groups, unions, there were universities, there were technicians. It was no accident, there was a job, a background job. A work that is often silent, but that work should be done by all of us, also by parliamentary groups. And when there's a public exhibition, you don't have to wait for someone to bring something, but you can participate, and there are political groups that have participated. So it's not the result of chance, and to say that would be a serious mistake because it would be insulting to many people who are first-hand acquaintances, and they're first-hand scholars, of topics related to climate change and different strategies. We are the fourth community that we have climate change strategy. It's not to wait until 2050, it's just to go slowly making an orderly transition. We don't do it because no one tells us, we have our own initiative. It is true that in Europe the consideration they have of the region is very high, something that we often want to defend here, so I used to talk about that international committee and that work that was being carried out these days in Galicia, where we talk about biodiversity but also about climate change, regardless of whether there are some who believe that biodiversity is something else and that we have to talk about waste. In the end, it's not: let's go with coal or not. In the end, let's do it so that it's not the workers who pay the consequences of an overly hasty decision. From there -- I told you earlier -- here we work in an orderly manner. Now you say, they came in contact with the university thanks to us. I hope that many initiatives will take place, that many questions will be brought, and that they will also be consistent with their facts. They don't ask for one thing and the opposite depending on the stage we're on. The reality is one, and is that, indeed, there are several countries that have it, that in Europe there are some that go ahead of others, that Spain is not doing anything. It's just that you're not doing anything, not in the transition map, not in the strategy, not in the circular economy, that's the great reality! We have the ministry totally stopped, we take one step forward and we take two back, the consequences are always for the same.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u524	Finish, please. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u525	Now we're on our way. We hope that in the next quarter we have the draft and you can participate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u526	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question from Noa Presas Bergantiños and five other Members from the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the view of the Government of Greece on the adequacy of its actions with regard to the crisis generated in the Bridges by the announcement of early closure of the thermal power plant
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u527	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u528	Counsellor, I used to say that I had been waiting a year for Alcoa and yesterday I decided to take the initiative. I hope with the question of the Bridges they don't wait so long, because, as they keep waiting year by year, they're going to put them out here while you haven't done anything yet. [[Applause]] It's been almost a month since Endesa had announced the intention of consuming before time the closure of the thermal power plant of the Bridges, and since the BNG we think it's time for you to abandon your pim, pam, permanent pom between the People's Party and the Socialist Party, between Junta and the Central Government, and that they are, once and for all, above all, because that's what the circumstances are about right now, not just because we're paying them a wage, but because the industrial emergency that this country lives goes far beyond the Bridges. The truth is, whatever happens, whatever we're able to condition with the reality of the Bridges, it's not going to be indifferent to fixing the rest. I want to remind you that, in addition, we are here as we are because of the political failure and the failure of the energy model also of the People's Party, which has led us to privatize energy and strategic sectors like this. Today The Bridges — I want to remind you here again this afternoon — is exploited by a public company, but by an Italian public company, to which you care what happens to the district of the Bridges and what happens to this country. You also know that the arrival of coal, which is finite material, is not a new reality they just discovered recently, this summer, but it's something we've known for a long time. And that there isn't, that there isn't, that there doesn't seem to be any plan to develop a Welsh plan of transition energy is another example of your failure, Counselor. We should also remember — it would be good — how many times in this Parliament you voted against forming a roadmap for this matter. In any case, it's time for you to abandon short-sighted practice, for you to also abandon conformism with an energy model that is harmful to the working class in Galicia and to act. That's why we want to bring them a series of proposals today, waiting for them to leave that pim, pam, pom. First of all -- we insist -- it's time for you to commit yourself and push a galley work table, a table that from The Bridges draws an alternative designed for this population, where you add up, the central government adds, if you try to sit down your own company and participate also the social, economic and political agents in this area of our country. Secondly, they also strongly demand that Galicia have equal conditions, both for state funds, compensating for the historic debt of the Rajoy Government with us, and for the European funds. Therefore, given the situation, Mr. Conde, we wonder whether you consider the actions that have been carried out enough, and I hope you do not have to read the Autonomy Statute again and remind you that they also have industrial competences.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u529	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas, your turn is over. Mr. Conde López has the floor of the Councillor for Economics, Employment and Industry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u530	How prudent, Mrs. Presas, with your Socialist Party partners! How prudent! I'm surprised. That's a pim, pam, pom. A pim, Pam, alliance boom. You're talking about Alcoa. I understand that you do not want to disturb your partners, but I remind you that, with regard to Alcoa, this Government, at the first time that the draft of the Statute for Electrointensive Enterprises was put on the table, made concrete proposals to the Government, which the Socialist Party has never answered. From the very first moment, this Government has put forward solutions, and it is the first time, after ten years in Galicia, that a primary aluminium plant ceases to produce primary aluminium, and that was because the Socialist Party did not put up solutions, not because this Government had not taken the initiative. And with regard to Endesa, man, return to reality! I think it's good for you to come to reality. He knows perfectly well that we are in an energy transition across Europe, and he knows perfectly well that all European countries are working on a common goal. And what this government does not accept is that the Socialist Party intends to bring here, Galicia, an energy rupture. That is a totally different context, and it surprises me that the Nationalist Block Galego follows this position of worship towards the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. It's amazing. You're talking about initiatives. You should know that we clearly take the initiative, and we have already asked the Central Government to set up this technical table to look for alternatives to the bridge plant, because you have already said by this Government, that we ask the Government to join the autonomous community the transition agreements that are set up in the Government's Fair Transition Strategy. You should know that this Government has already transferred to the Central Government that Galicia participates in the Country Team of the European Platform for Mining Regions in transition, because we meet all the goals and we don't know why the Socialist Party has outside Galicia. You should know that this Government has also been working with the European Commission to plan whether Galicia is — who will be — participating in the fair transition funds that the European Union will make available to the Member States from the year 2021, Mrs Presas. Go back to reality. This clear government that it has worked and is working in the energy transition, and what it needs is that there is collaboration, not an independent vision from the energy point of view, that this, of course, Galicia does not take it anywhere. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u531	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde. For the replica shift, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u532	Mr. Conde, I'm not going to tell you to return to this planet, but at least return to this Parliament and to what you voted today, I don't know if it was morning or afternoon. Of course, you sell me here that you proposed a technical table. But we no longer know how many times we proposed, in our own initiatives and the other political parties, that table that I propose here, in Galicia, in the bridges, from the reality of the territory, with all the administrations and with all the agents involved, and you voted against it. [[Applause]] You too, who is a Member. On this bench we voted in favour of this wording, and you voted against it. Hurry up a bit, don't take people's hair off! Then, on the question of our energy-independent policy, I urge you again that we do not intend to take a saw and put up with Padarnelo the electrical tendencies. It's not about that, Mr. Conde. What we proposed is what you just proposed a few minutes ago, a downhill via traffic fees, because of course! You voted against that, too. Even when the Galego Nationalist Block made a proposal to apply this exclusively to industry, in order to find a point of agreement, since you, at the consumer rate, apply to us is the dependent rate, that of having to pay 38 million euros more among all the Greeks and Greeks for the wind cannon. Then stop playing erratic confusion over and over again. [[Applause]] We, as we demand of you, demand of the Socialist Party. Don't worry, that as of November 10, when Members and Members of the Galician Nationalist Bloc can condition state policy, they will use their votes in the Central Government, not as you did, who were absent from this debate when the Socialist Party ruled and when you ruled. Because it seems to me great that they are now joining the car to ask the Socialist Party to include us in the Coal Plan, great! But let's not forget what you owe Cerceda and the Bridges since 2011, because it was Mr. Rajoy, Mr. Rajoy, who breached those commitments. Therefore, less would you read Mr. Counselor, and a little more serious.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u533	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. He's finished his intervention. The Minister of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Conde López, has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u534	Mrs. Presas, you talk to me about coherence, but this double game of the Galician Nationalist Block, which on the one hand wants the energy transition and on the other hand, what you want is not to disturb the Socialist Party's partner, that's how it should be interpreted? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I welcome you because, for the first time, you voted with the People's Party this morning... [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u535	There's little left on the agenda, really... listen to me, there's little left. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u536	The Galician Nationalist Block voted in favour, precisely, that the bridge plant may have continuity until there is an alternative. Did they vote for it or not? Oh, all right! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, thank you. I hope you withdraw that attribute that moves me from that I lie here, because I don't lie, Mrs. Presas. So welcome! Welcome, for the first time, to the defense of the bridge workers. I hope you guys stay in that position. You talk to me... Don't cheat, don't cheat, don't want to fool people. I understand that your country vision remains within the Padarnelo, it doesn't happen, but the fair transition passes through Madrid, because there's a fair transition strategy, and the fair transition, Mrs. Presas, passes through Europe, through Brussels. I know you never want to go to Brussels, but it goes through Brussels, where the European Commission is setting up and will create a fair transition fund. So giving Meirama a future, giving the bridge a future, necessarily going through Madrid and Brussels, and in order to defend interests, we have to do a joint, coordinated and coherent action with the rest of the administrations. We've already asked the minister to create a technical table between administrations and the company, because we understand that's the initiative that the ministry has to have. To incorporate Galicia into the European funds, from 2021 onwards, which we will ensure in the next financial framework. And, of course, we've also asked the minister to have an urgent action plan within the Fair Transition Strategy so that they can ensure the transformation and economic recovery of the Cerceda and Bridge districts. We also call for participation in the Country Team of the European Platform for Mining Regions, and a specific strategy is also envisaged for regions that can go to European funds. So, Mrs. Presas, welcome to the workers' alliance. Now what we expect is that they also support this government in the strategy of fair transition. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u537	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question from Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo and two other MPs from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the assessment of the Government of Galicia regarding the current situation of the yard Barreras de Vigo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u538	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u539	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Government advertising and propaganda policy Feijóo in these ten years has one of its most illustrative examples in the Pemex case and the Vigous shipyard Sons of J. Barreras. In the spring of 2012, President Feijóo returned from a trip to Mexico with Mariano Rajoy advancing a historic opportunity for the galley hand naval sector of the Mexican company Pemex, making a series of announcements: construction of ships, logistics base of distribution of Pemex hydrocarbons to Europe in the port of Punta Langosteira, 2 fleets, 3 tankers, 1 tuna, 1 ship support to oil platforms, 1 hotel ship, the renewal of part of the fleet, 2 chemicals and several tugs. The only reality, Counselor, of all these promises was that at the end of 2012, a few weeks from the autonomous elections, President Núñez Feijóo, bordering the electoral law, solemnized in Raxoi's palace the charge of the two fleets of Pemex for the Greek shipyards. Agreement with live television signing and broadcasting, formalizing that strategic alliance that the president of the Galician Union has defined as one of the best economic and employment news of recent times, because these contracts are not only financially valued, but are also supported by conviction and realism. Two fleets, the Cerro de la Pez, built in Navantia. The board spoke of 2,000 jobs for the county with this charge, but the maximum figure was 500 jobs in full performance. It was the only charge in Ferrolterra of that strategic alliance. The other fleet was built in Barreras, a yard of what Pemex owns 51% since April 2013, and at that time President Feijóo assumed that it was a positive move for the workers, for the sector and for the whole of Galicia. Seven years after those ads, the Pemex story is over. Pemex decided to abandon Barriers and Galicia, after more projects announced by Feijóo. Thus, the largest shipyard in Spain in capacity and workload, this month called for the pre-competition of creditors, after the removal of its directive dome, setting a temporary negotiating framework and narrowing the margins of manoeuvre. In view of the strategic importance of the naval sector, what assessment does the German Government make of the current situation in Barreras?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u540	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Mr. Conde López has the floor of the Councillor for Economics, Employment and Industry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u541	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, I recognize some stupid thing to hear the Socialist Party talk about the naval sector. As you know, it was a socialist government that dismantled the public yards of the Ferrol River as a currency of exchange to enter the European Union, you know it perfectly well. And you know perfectly well that it was the decision of a socialist commissioner to ask for the refund of tax payments received by the sector, remaining competitive and placing the entire German naval sector against the ropes. Two Socialist Party decisions that led to the loss of thousands of jobs, led to a sector that has lain down for many years, and, above all, led to continued discrimination from the Socialist Party to Galicia. That's the reality. By the way, the following discrimination follows this discrimination of the Socialist Party to the naval sector. They should worry about why Ferrol's steps are empty today, precisely because the Socialist Party does not burden and is delaying the execution of the frigates. So we're going to have two years in which, unfortunately, the Socialist Party's decisions lead us to this situation. Faced with that, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, we proposed solutions. Indeed, there is a new system of Tax Read, which has been defended by this Government and evaluated by the European Union; we have collaborated in the search for workload, of course — I will, logically, speak of Barreras — and we have spent more than 50 million euros on consolidating growth. So we've always been there, we've always been defending the naval sector, giving it viability. And there, indeed, in 2012, Pemex played a decisive role in the recovery of Barriers, giving the burden of work when few — very few, by not saying practically anyone — were betting on the Greek naval. Barriers, through Pemex, made it possible to diversify and, in addition to the fleet's workload, he obtained a €900 million order wallet, with an active participation by Pemex. Therefore, the Galician Union is taking the initiative. It's true that Barriers right now has an actionary situation that has to solve, but logically the Galician Union is working to provide solutions and, therefore, that there is a situation of continuity, not only from the yard, but also from the auxiliary industry itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u542	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the replica shift, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u543	Counselor, the truth is, you use demagogy enough. The yard, with strong treasury tensions, a defective capital structure, and the shareholding in war, faces over-millionaires on the three ships it already has in construction, of the five it has formally contracted, with a portfolio of orders amounting to EUR 950 million. Counsellor, you, in statements to the media this October, stated that, if the Galician Board economically supports the Ritz Carlton Barriers purchase operation, it should assume all the workload assigned by the yard and the payment of debts to the auxiliary industry. In the same sense, Vice-President Alfonso Rueda, who considers Barreras to be a very important asset, both for its size and for its current workload and for the hundreds of direct, indirect jobs and for the auxiliary company, has also stated that Mr Rueda could help find solutions that are viable and secure for the future. The implication of the Galician board will depend on the information it gets about the needs of Barriers, so as to find an integral solution for both the yard and the auxiliaries. So, Counsellor, after these demonstrations made by you and Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Alfonso Rueda, after the fraudulent announcements and the false promises that have been made since the Galician Union, tell me, where is the Galician Union? What were the meeting agreements you had yesterday with unions, Igape and Pymar? What roadmap is going to follow from this moment to Galicia? They're going to open a work table between the company, the creditors and the board to try to reach an agreement before the deadline is over...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u544	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Time's up. For the Government's reply, the economic, employment and industry advisor, Mr. Conde López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u545	False promises! But, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, false promises where? We are absolutely transparent, we are absolutely clear, and at all times we are with the naval sector. We were with Vulcan. We in Vulcan moved from the first moment that we would be acting with responsibility, and at the moment that Vulcan needed help, it was the Unity of Galicia. And we'll also continue to help from the Galician Union, but when there's a concrete and logically realistic project. With regard to Barreras, what does the Socialist Party want? You know perfectly well that in Barreras, right now, there's a board of directors that has to resolve an actionary conflict, you know perfectly well. And it corresponds to the members of that board of directors, because, as you know, the Galician Union does not manage any yards. And from then on, logically, the members of that board of directors themselves will have to give solutions to that shareholders' conflict. The Galician Union is talking with all sides to identify solutions, and logically transferring that the Galician Union will be in that solution to the extent that there is a concrete proposal on the part of the yard and on the part of the various shipowners. We're talking to shareholders, moving the importance of reaching a quick agreement. We're also talking to customers, particularly Ritz-Carlton, so that decisions can also be made. And, of course, we're talking to the auxiliary industry. And the auxiliary industry has already moved that we will assess their situation and work to facilitate their ability to respond to this continence. But we'll do it from a realistic point of view, because we manage public funds. And, Mrs. Rodríguez, this isn't Alfageme. Remember Alfageme? Where did you dilapidate 30 million euros from the history of Galician Union of all the Greeks? This isn't Alfageme. We will act with responsibility; we will work to defend the viability of Vulcan; we will work to defend the interests of the auxiliary industry; and we will work to defend the interests of the naval sector, but we will do so with responsibility. So of course we need the information from the yard; of course we need the shipowner's information; of course we need the information from the auxiliary industry, precisely to assess where the Galician Union may be in the solution. And the Galician Union, to the extent that a viable project is presented to it, will be in the solution because our responsibility is to be with the workers of the naval sector, the Barriers workers and the workers of the auxiliary industry. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u546	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question from Noa Presas Bergantiños and five other Members from the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the situation of the staff worker in the kitchen of the Ourense Hospital Complex
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u547	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u548	Counsellor, once again we have to bring the situation of the kitchen from Ourense hospital to this Parliament. And more specifically, the situation of their workers and workers; which, by the way, were concentrated in front of this Parliament this morning and some of them now accompany us in the rostrum. Look, if we looked at the history of the damage they have with Ourense, with this hospital, and more specifically with the kitchen, the list would be endless for the three minutes I have. But we could remember, for example, that they opened the new hospital building with more than two years' delay; we can remember that these workers and workers have been months, months!, making up to 12 kilometers daily with inadequate cars, in which the cold food arrived, because of course they opened this new building without the promised new kitchen. And so we go on, waiting. Today — I don't know if we're going to be given any headlines today — we don't know when the transfer will take effect. And the new kitchen, Mr. Almuña, it's not a mistake. Often, when we're sick or sick, the doctors themselves and doctors tell us that food is part of the treatment. And you also know that they arrive at the tasks they don't do, because the current kitchen is more of a war hospital than a civilized hospital of a civilized society. He knows because even in 2018 they had to act on the pressure of the Labour Inspectorate after a complaint from the IGC. In any case, what we know today is nothing positive, it's nothing hopeful; it's something very serious. It's just that you really have a reduction schedule for this kitchen's staff. That's what the Management commented at the meeting they had in August with the workers and the workers. Because, by the way, since August they must have been very busy sending press notes, because we have here the request for new meetings signed by workers and workers and they're still waiting. Today you could take advantage, go up to the gallery and talk directly to them, for it is seen that the new manager of Ourense is very busy. In any case, the question we want to clarify today, Mr. Almuña, is what they're going to do with the jobs. Because, look, it's complex to explain in three minutes, but here's the functional plan, the 2019 and 2020 budget forecast, and the information that the staff themselves bring. And the truth is, you've planned to reduce, based on the functional plan, the number of pins and the number of cooks and cooks. For example, with regard to pinches, in the budget theory there were 126 in 2019; now, by 2020, we have risen to 120. But, in any case, you know that the trap is that today there are only 96 workers in this category; that there would be 17, or, if you want, 11. But anyway, you're playing between those who are stabilized and those who are not, and that's why you're making a numerical trap when you explain to the public what's happening. But the truth is, with the figures in your hand...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u549	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u550	...your intention is to reduce staff. So I ask you to just answer yes or no. Will you correct the intentions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u551	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u552	...to reduce staff?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u553	Thank you very much. The health counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u554	Good afternoon, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. We've been working at Ourense's new hospital for a while. When we finish the master plan, it will be one of Spain's best hospital complexes. Today we speak of a fundamental service for hospital care to our patients: the kitchen. Ourense Hospital Complex will have a kitchen in which we invest in its work and equipment a total of EUR 5.2 million. Interestingly, he doesn't talk about any of that investment. It's a modern, efficient and safe kitchen, with the latest advances in the restoration sector. The new facilities, more than 1,400 square meters, are located in the center of the hospital, on floor 2 of the new hospital building, and will have equipment that adapts to the industry's latest advances in improving traceability and food security, in addition to the operation and working conditions of the staff of the kitchen and food section, which will continue to assume and manage this service — of course, very well valued by the users of the Ourense hospital. The new kitchen has natural light, separate circulations by workstations and air conditioning in all areas. It is divided into five large areas: reception and storage, preparation, processing, distribution and washing. The processing area will be equipped with latest technology for the different cooking systems, in addition to an advanced ventilation system. The number of refrigerators, with 10 cameras and 90 square meters of surface, as well as the preparation area, will also be expanded. The distribution area will have two deployment tapes, which will allow the individual menu service to be different from the cold line system, and the hot line system deployment; in differentiated areas and with regulated temperature. The dishwashing area will also have two wash tunnels. As for safety, hygiene and ergonomics, in food safety aspects, the kitchen will allow steady work flows, and thus avoid contact risks. The whole project is based on the beginning of the march ahead of food and adapts to the latest food legislation. Security is an indispensable element — we insist — because it is logically the most vulnerable and high-risk population. Environmental safety and awareness is also about better waste management, so we have a centralized system that decreases by 80% the volume generated throughout the kitchen, which reduces compost. As for ergonomics, the workers' operationality and safety are boosted in the facilities. The reception and storage area shall have sliding rails, further increasing the accessibility capacity. And the kitchen line we choose is a mixed line, as you know, with a cold line and a hot line alternately.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u555	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u556	I think we're still improving service and facilities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u557	Thank you very much, Counselor. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u558	...and, of course, it will be very positive for patients and workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u559	Mrs. Presas Berganginos has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u560	Counselor, with all due respect, he could save me from reading the functional plan and answering me with an adverb of affirmation or denial whether he's going to rectify or not his intention to reduce staff. Because it's not that I'm no longer working the staff that appears to be budgeted for 2019; it's that in the budgets that you're going to defend next Tuesday in the House, the staff will be diminished. [[Applause]] In the statements made by the Power itself, they assume that they reduce staff and that's why they don't want to receive workers and workers now; so, I don't know what hairskin is this. The conditions of the new kitchen have already read them in the recruitment service and I have read them in the post they put on Facebook when they were announced — which they did before talking to the workers and workers about what conditions they would have. Counselor, I don't know how they're going to do more with less, because theoretically we're going to have up to 900 commensals -- as there are at some point in the peaks of Ourense hospital -- and you think you're going to cook for those people, and yet for those people of Verín, less personal than there is currently working in the CHUO kitchen. You'll tell me how you explain that, how you explain that with less personal people these people have to do more work. Because they're doing more work today. They're already doing more work because there's even people coming in to work before they get their breakfasts ready, and that's a shame. Don't ask me here to thank you — no less — for now Ourense is going to have a 21st century kitchen — we'll see if we've been in the 21st century — when we've had years with a kitchen falling to pieces, with ovens that don't work, with plates that get up. I myself have brought photographs, just like other opposition Members, to this Parliament. The Labour Inspectorate itself—I have remembered it before—acted. So it's enough shame. Say: Yes or no, will you correct your intention to cut the kitchen staff? Counselor, yes or no?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u561	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u562	We, of course, will work so that they don't.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u563	Thank you very much. For the Government's reply, you have the word of the Health Counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuína.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u564	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, Madam, I will answer what I think I have to answer, not what you tell me. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Yes, I'll answer what you think I have to answer. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Look, as I say inside the lines, there's a cold line and a hot line, and the one used, which was going to be the mixed line; that, by the way, it was communicated as a functional plan to the board of Ourenses -- tell me you don't talk to the professionals; it was spoken -- July 16 and 29, and August 5 and 14, as well as to the kitchen staff directly, to explain exactly what you want to do, how we're going to work. This model — which today is not dare to say but they've let it go that we wanted to privatize Ourense's kitchen — is going to be a management model by Sergas as up to now, and of course, without a decrease, never, of personnel, clearly. Moreover, new jobs will be created, such as professionals entitled to diet and nutrition, which will provide assurance, security and quality to this service. And there will also be incorporation of a cook into this equipment beyond what we have right now. So your question — to answer exactly — is: will I rectify the Galician Board of Directors with regard to their intentions to reduce the staff of the kitchen complex? The Galician board won't cut the staff, it will greatly improve the current conditions of Ourense's kitchen and will provide a quality service, which is what we want: a quality service in ourense's hospital service, which was already good and which will certainly improve with these new facilities and with the increase of staff staffing with professional categories that up to today were not working in the complex. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u565	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Mr Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and eight other Members of the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, on the offer of MIR squares for the year 2020 in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u566	To put the question, Mr. Núñez Centeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u567	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, or rather good night, Counselor. Last July the Commission on Human Resources of the National Health System confirmed the offer of specialized health training for the year 2019-2020, with a total for the entire state of 7.512 medical squares; of them 2,205 for the speciality of Family and Community Medicine. The Health Council — and in particular you, Mr Counsellor — has already called for an increase in the number of disabled people, such as some hospitals and mainly the family doctor and pediatrician. You have come, together with other autonomous communities, to demand an extraordinary call for MIR squares for the training of professionals needed to be able to provide better healthcare in primary care. All this was rejected by the Socialist Government, limiting the possibility of training more doctors in these specialties. In addition, you have also called for the agility of the accreditation processes of new teaching units. We all know the current shortage of optionals for different primary and hospital specialities. They highlight the problems in Family Medicine and Pediatrics; specialties in which the Health Council takes time to request increases in squares in MIR calls and the agileization of procedures for accreditation of new teaching units. This increase would meet one of the commitments of the primary care plan, helping in the medium term to alleviate the shortage of optionals manifested in the absence of professionals in the recruitment lists. Even so, since last year at the International Council, the resolution of applications for the approval of non-Community professionals has also been claimed, preferably in these deficit specialties. Mr Counsellor, we would like to ask: What is the offer of MIR squares for next year 2020 in Galicia? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u568	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. To answer, you have the word of the Health Counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuína.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u569	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. The Galego Health Service, Mr. Núñez, has this year transferred the greatest offer of its history to training squares of primary care professionals. The total offer — I now speak of total — of planned squares for the 2019-2020 calls for an increase of 13.1%, when the state level is around 10%. By the way, the minister today has just declared that she's happy because the family doctors' markets are rising by 10% in the summons. In Galicia, however, we began to offer 129 places in family doctors, 22.8%; against what the minister says at the national level, of 10%, we did, 22.8%. It's also 24 squares more than in 2018, which means an increase. In pediatrics we're talking about a 27 square offer. This offer would increase by 35% compared to the previous year, with 7 more squares. We have long claimed that these squares were accredited to be able to do this training. But as well as in family and community nursing, we recorded a very important increase. We call for the formation of 34 professionals, which means an increase of 61.9% compared to the previous year. That year 21 squares were offered. With regard to the total number of squares offered in the proposal, which depends on the approval of the Ministry of Health, Sergas also foresees the largest total supply of squares in the last ten years. As we said, 457 specialized health training courses for this course. If we compare this to the year 2009, this is an increase of 24.2%. Sergas offers this 2019 a total of 53 squares more than last year's call; that is, 13.1% increase compared to 2018. With this increase in squares of the MIR call for 2019-2020, the Galego Health Service is not only fulfilling, but far exceeding the primary care plan, both in family doctors — we talked about the increase of 10 squares and are going to be 24 — as well as in pediatrics — we spoke of 6 and we were able to increase to 7—. With these MIR offering squares — the largest held by our community in its history as regards professionals specialists in primary care — Sergas takes one more step in the search for solutions in the face of the lack of optional ones. We understand that this is the greatest offer in history, with more squares and more quality of training. Of course, we are building the future of the Greek health system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u570	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, Mr. Núñez Centeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u571	Thank you for the answer, Counselor. The truth is that they look like important figures for the training of doctors and nursing personnel specialized in the Greek health system. We know there may be problems with family medicine tutors. The ease that exists for transfer contests, and even hiding it from some family doctors who fear residents not to take on that responsibility, can of course lead to difficulties. We in this group trust in the common sense of these professionals not to generate additional problems in the formation of one of the most necessary specialties, such as that of the family doctors. What is evident — although some opposition group does not understand it — is that without trainers it cannot be formed. From here we want to congratulate the Medical College of the Coruña on organizing a training course for future tutors of family doctors, because we think they are necessary at this time to believe these squares. I would also like the opposition groups to review the day's orders of the last interterritorial councils and compare them. Of all the measures adopted in the last interterritorial government of Mariano Rajoy, at the time of Minister Monserrat, a number of measures were adopted in relation to primary care, and those measures were no longer spoken. Recently — you have participated — an interterritorial meeting was convened in Madrid in which there was nothing to say — there were twenty-five points on the agenda — of the problems of primary care in Spain or of the deficit of primary care professionals in Spain. Of course, from this group, Mr. Counsellor, we appreciate the work of the Council and that of all of the hospitals in the Greek network to achieve the accreditation of those squares of deficit specialities. We all know the traps set by the Government of the State to take the necessary measures in order to alleviate that deficit. On this second occasion, we would like you to inform us of the requests made to the Central Government regarding the defective situation of these specialties, and also of the measures taken by the Council itself to address this problem. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u572	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. For the Government's reply, the Health Counsellor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u573	Thank you very much. As you all know, since the Health Council we have been insisting on the urgent need for the Ministry to take extraordinary measures to address the lack of specialists in the national health system as a whole. In fact, this extraordinary summons, which was not the first time it was formulated, was denied from the beginning, and could be important. We called for it within this working group, which, as you well say, was formed with Minister Dolores Monserrat and which did not meet again, and took a number of initiatives such as the provision of the means necessary to reduce the processing and resolution deadlines for the dossiers for the approval of titles of non-Community specialists. We also insist on the need to launch the total register of health professionals, which was announced by 2018 and we continue without him. We're still asking for the removal of the constraints that still exist at the replenishment rate. In Galicia there is 108%, therefore, above other autonomous communities, to meet the deficit. But we would need to eliminate it in order to try to recover the years from the economic recession. As a novelty in the 2019 OP, in view of previous offers, the rest rate that applies is 108%, but the 8% that Education and Public Service gave us to try to achieve greater stabilization within the Galician Health Service. From that point on, we are talking about 5,000 squares up to 2020 in the Sergas Employment Stability and Staff Planning Plan. That is, few autonomous communities have such an important stability plan in number and proportion of our staff. The recognition of the professional career was something that certainly improved the working conditions of our professionals, as well as the open and permanent transfer contest. All this is after an important negotiation with the main trade union organizations. We reached a lot of agreements and that allowed us to move forward. And here I want to thank you for the work of the trainers, the tutors, all the professionals involved in the training, because this makes us have specialists with a higher level of education that we can ask for to give a very good health service. As I said, the last Interterritorial Council spoke at some point in primary care, but without doing what we asked the ministry to do, which is basically about funding. Because all of this, logically, is done with funding; a financing that is partly not answered by the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u574	Thank you, Mr. Almuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u575	Those 700 million that aren't enough. And in the face of service improvement...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u576	Thank you, Mr. Almuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u577	...sanitary, there is a need for a review of the funding, as we ask the Government of Spain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u578	Thank you very much. We're still on the agenda. By Paula Quinteiro Araújo and Eva Solla Fernández, from G.P. Group of the Left, on the forecasts of the Government of Greece regarding the ratios of staff in the residences of older persons
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u579	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u580	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. We came to ask you about the situation of working and over-burdening that the workers of the homes of older people in our country, both of public management and of concerted and private people. It's a situation that has been reporting for a long time, caused by the low rates that are stipulated for this type of work; ratios that do not correspond at all to the tasks to be carried out in these centers. A situation that is also aggravated on many occasions because the casualties are not covered or the holidays are not covered. The Galician Board itself did this on repeated occasions, denounced it by the Board of Auditors, something which in our opinion is totally unacceptable, because the ratios are also to fulfill them on holidays, as well as when there are holidays and, of course, also when a worker takes a bass. This situation is bringing very serious consequences to the users, who are reduced in their quality of care and who often have absolutely uncontrolled hours — there are people who are being lifted even at 6 in the morning because they can't be done later — as well as to workers. In this sector, there's a high number of workers who have a lot of work accidents, very low jobs. In fact, yours is the Councillory that has the highest index of labour sinequality in the whole of Galicia. This data really seems to us to be worrying, and we want to ask you what you're going to do to end this situation. He knows that many workers have to take analgesics in order to be able to endure a normal working day, and in our opinion it is unacceptable for an administration like the Galician Union to keep its workers in this situation of exploitation. The situation has been going worse for many years. As a matter of fact, the suspension of Article 19 of the V Single Convention for Employees suggested that more breaks had been eliminated, that breaks for holidays or shiftwork had disappeared from the cartels. For Galician Union, every day of the year is the same and all models of work are exactly the same. And he knows that the problems he's generating are that there are residences that have up to 20% of the staff dropout, up to 20%! And many workers -- as I said -- have to go on medication to keep a working day. I take this initiative to ask you when you will come to comply with the agreement we have taken in Commission 5a, in order for you to explain this situation and this lack of staff in the residences directly dependent on the Council of Galicia, because in our opinion it is urgent. I hope the appearance is as early as before, because with this subject we're used to they often sell propaganda. They announced some inspections in the residences this summer, and to us what seems alarming to us is what they were doing until this summer? They didn't make the necessary inspections? Because if they now announce it as a star measure, I wonder what happened...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u581	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u582	...to the present. The question is clear, Counsellor, what they will do to end this exploitation of work.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u583	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. To answer, you have the floor of the Social Policy Counsellor, Mrs. García Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u584	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. Mrs. Quinteiro, I am truly glad that you share with the Galician Union the concern about the care of older people in our dependency centers, and that you are also concerned about the well-being of all the workers and all the workers, who strive and work very hard every day to give them the best of the attention and assure our seniors who sit in residences as well as in their own homes. First, it is necessary to clarify that there is no static ratio that calculates the volume of personnel per resident, but this is a dynamic figure that is changing according to the number of residents and their level of dependency, as the care needs evolve depending on the users of each centre. These ratios are designed to ensure the well-being of users, but also to ensure that there is a reasonable workload for professionals who care for all of them. It is therefore not a random or arbitrary figure that is chosen, but it is a figure that meets the needs of the centre in question and is given by the rules in force. As you know, among the competences of the Social Policy Council is the inspection of social services, and all the technicians of the Social Policy Council are looking every day to ensure that the centres of attention to our elders, both private and, of course, the public, comply with the ratio of personnel that marks the regulation and offer high-quality attention, as could not be otherwise. And that's not what I'm saying, this is the inspections carried out annually by our social services inspectors. Your Honor, the campaign you're campaigning and alluding to in your question is not an exceptional fact, but it's the ordinary functioning, the daily functioning, of the Social Policy Council. Our commitment is to continue to work always for the improvement of attention and the highest quality for all older people, with our goal of always reaching out to them all the resources that are necessary to ensure their well-being. And we do this through the promotion of personal autonomy and also the attention of people who find themselves in a dependency situation. In the residential realm is where the Galician Union wants to put even more emphasis. In fact, in the next few months, seven new comprehensive centres will be created to care for older people in the seven major cities of Greece, which will increase the offer...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u585	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u586	...with 900 public squares. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u587	For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u588	As always, no self-criticism. I'm starting at the end, because he's talking about these seven public residences. Can you commit yourself now, publicly, to which these residences will be managed 100 percent public? Because they always play with words. We want the squares to be public, but so is operation and direct management, because he also knows that ratios are different in private or concerted management and in public 100 percent. The board doesn't show any concern about the care of older people, as much as it says it verbally. And it doesn't show it because it keeps a reality of exploitation and work overload that's making many workers sick. He said absolutely nothing of these high indexes of labourlessness that exist in his counsellor's office. You can ask any worker from any residence in this country like a daily workday, if you have a minute to rest and if you think you have the time to perform all the care you have to take, that anyone is going to say no, because they're systematically telling you about many residences, public and private. I want to ask you why you keep suspending Article 19 of the Fifth Labour Convention, what's the reason? Because they're condemning the most extreme exploitation and precariousness of the workers directly dependent on the Galician Union. Its model is to gradually privatize all social services, as well as the centres and residences of older people. The truth is, the subject of inspections seems very alarming to us, and we don't say so, they were often denounced by the unions. They're going to check the ratios they have on holidays. They're going to analyze the ratios by separating the staff from direct care, because they often also cheat on the ratios. Of course they're not static! But you also know that the patient profile that's entering the old residences is increasingly dependent, and often that's not accompanied by more staff. In most cases, the workers are...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u589	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u590	...that they can't anymore. That's the reality, as much as they want to deny it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u591	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. For the Government's reply, the Social Policy Counsellor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u592	Thank you, President. Mr Quinteiro, the Greek Government has been working very hard for more than a decade to improve the quality of life of people who are in a dependency situation: improving home care, in which the squares have increased by 42%, up to today's 8,000; multiplying by three squares in our day centers; and also improving home care for all older people. With more home-help service, of which today benefit twenty-four thousand older people, ten times more than in 2009; through the dining service at home, which offers more than forty thousand menus a month; through the impulse of advanced teleassistion; through the impulse of the care service door-to-door, with free services of polometry, of optometries, of the treatment of majors and also of memory stimulation; and also through the start-up of the thirty first child homes, which we will double in the next year. Mrs. Quinteiro, if you looked further back, you'd see how Galicia has advanced in matters of attention to our elders. Of course it must be acknowledged that there is still much to be done, but all the facts point to that the Greeks and the Greeks today have more options to reconcile and to grow bigger as they freely wish. You also point out that I haven't come up with this subject yet. It's true, and the truth is, I regret it, because I think it's a good opportunity to analyze the progress that has been made in this field in recent years. And I haven't been able to show up because Parliament has just attended an intense month, starring at the start of the school course, at the debate about the state of Autonomy, at the budgets and at the bridge labour conflict. But, with all this, I can tell you that last week we filed a request for your own appearance to speak again in this Parliament about the situation of our senior residences. Once again, it will be a great opportunity to thank all the excellent professionals of the Public Residences of the Galician Union and the Public Day Centres of the Consortium for all they do to improve the quality of life of older people every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u593	Thank you very much, Counselor. We're still on the agenda. Question by Mr David Rodríguez Estévez and three other Members of the G.P. Jointly, on the forecasts of the Government of Greece regarding measures to improve quotas for women's participation in agricultural and livestock organisations
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u594	To put the question, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u595	Thank you, President. Rural women are rarely the focus of attention, so the challenges they face are not often taken into account, since they don't often hear their opinions or, on many occasions, valued. It is essential that not only women's contribution to the countryside, to agricultural production, but also that recognition translates into policies that transform rural reality with women's presence and active participation. Rural women face great challenges, such as difficulties in accessing different resources or invisibility of their work, since much of the productive activities they do are linked to the home, less socially valued than other areas. It's a lot of the usual tasks women do mostly, lacking on many vacations and the least recognition for their work. The continuity of certain ecosystems and forms of production and life in rural areas depends on the maintenance of a minimal social structure, and its basic foundations are people, namely women, who want to have the same rights for the same work, who want to lead their lives without anyone, who want to access the labour market, who want to occupy positions of representation, who want to form themselves or want to inform themselves. By way of example, shared ownership is a first step towards the visibility of the work of farmers and farmers on family farms, which has not so long been almost exclusive to men, reaching about 72%. But the bureaucracy, the government's desire and the lack of information for women made their figurative space small. In order to establish rural population, we need to analyze each specific context and we need to adapt the measures to each other's social reality, even if there are common axes. It is essential to seek, stimulate and boost new jobs; it is essential to pay attention to the aspirations and expectations of young women who remain in rural areas; it is essential to open up women's participation in all aspects of local life, not only in agricultural activities, but also looking for innovative formulas, not forgetting social needs that have unmet goals, such as the expansion of social services resources in proximity services, the promotion of cooperativeism, the social economy in the care sector, social tourism promotion, etc. In order for these potential proposals to make full sense, it is essential to work and build on, rather than dismantle — as if trying to do some time in this part — the decentralization of certain services, resources and equipment. A proper public transport in rural areas, the connection to nearby towns and cities, is essential. All public policies have to address and search for solutions to the specifications of the rural environment, which are many and are diverse. And one thing is certain: if we lose sight of the perspective of gender, inequalities will continue to develop, from there our question: Have you thought about Joine...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u596	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u597	...to take measures to improve female quotas...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u598	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u599	...in agricultural and livestock organizations in our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u600	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez. Mr. González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u601	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, although less than a week ago the technical secretary-general of my board answered this very question posed by his group in Commission 7a, I, of course, have no problem in replying to them again, since for us this is a matter of priority. I imagine all your lordships will also know that last October 15 we celebrated Rural Women's Day; an ephemeral who tries to focus on the important work women do in rural areas. I had the opportunity to enjoy a very interesting day for myself, with more than 300 women, in Martín Códax's cellars that same day. Support for women forms a transversal axis on the part of the Italian Executive, who works together to make progress on this issue. And you can't understand these policies as static measures by departments, it has to be a joint work of all councils and administrations. So, from the middle of the country, in collaboration with other departments of the Union, we're putting in place several measures that work to improve the quality of life of our women, of our rural women. I must also say something that has already been heard in this House on numerous occasions: Galicia is rural. Well, today, in addition, I want to add that the Greek countryside is mostly female. And besides, I complete this statement with a data that fills us with pride and a desire to continue working for that rural mostly female. The data is as follows: the number of women holding agricultural holdings in our autonomy is around 50%, while on the national average it does not reach 23%. Once again, Galicia is also a pioneer in that area thanks to the work of all. That woman's work in the field, it's true, it's not always been sufficiently recognized, sometimes it's not even appreciated. But it is also true that this work has contributed and contributed decisively to the protection of the very personality of the countryside of our autonomous community. We know that it is necessary to continue to value and recognize the position of women in rural areas in order to guarantee them equal opportunities. And getting that social, economic and institutional recognition that women in our rural area deserve is a priority for my council and for the Galician Union. So I'm done with this first part. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u602	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u603	Thank you. The historical debt of society in general, and the political class in particular, with rural women is enormous. It is the task of society as a whole, of all institutions, to ensure real and effective equality between women and men in rural areas. Because behind every family exploitation we all know, and for those who are now no longer relieved, behind every woman who leaves her village, we find serious problems: aging of the population, exodus towards the cities, problems that affect our country in a very important way. The Galician Union is not able to address the gender gap that harms women in our rural environment, as evidenced by the failure of the Shared Ownership Act. The object of this law? That the labor rights of rural women were fully recognized. That is, women were discharged from social security, they were entitled to a pension, and they were both holders of aid and subsidies that they received from exploitation and their performance. But the ineffectiveness of the different administrations didn't make the rule effective, leaving it on wet paper. Of the approximately thirty-five thousand women who were able to accept the benefits of this law, only seventeen women claimed their rights in 2017. But last year only one more woman claimed this shared title. It is a failure with capital letters of the Central Government — the law is state — and it is a failure with capital letters of the Government of Galicia, for not putting on the table tools to facilitate the application of this law. It is clear that the Government of the People's Party is not doing its work, failing over and over again its commitments to rural life and equality. The Galician Union would have to take this problem much more seriously, pushing this law, for example. And now to finish, by way of example, Mr. General Manager, Mr. Balsairo, recognized in the last commission — he said, without anyone asking him — that of the measures driven by the Galician Council for the incorporation of young people and girls, the latter are 15 points below these aids. So, don't brag, you're not satisfied, because the data is there to deny your [...].
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u604	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. For the Government's reply, the Middle Rural Counsellor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u605	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am indeed the rural one. Mr. Rodríguez also said something that is true. He spoke of the law of shared ownership and reminded us that it is state. He talks about the data from the Autonomous Community of Galicia, but if you forget the data from the state, because there are eighteen here, but in the whole state there are four hundred, and there are sixteen more autonomous communities. So what you'll have to see is that it's a law that has difficulties, but -- I repeat -- it's a state law, and you'll have to talk to who's ruling in the state to change it, in your case. Look, what we're convinced of is that we have to improve, of course, the situation of rural women, but for that we have to understand their value, the value of the work of these women, and foster their visibility. And it is also essential to encourage the incorporation of women — and in that sense their question — into the decision-making bodies of the rural agri-food sector. In agricultural organizations, in cooperatives, in rural development groups, they have to have a female presence in governing bodies that are consistent with the reality of women in rural Galicia. We must promote and promote women's role in decision-making in rural areas, so that women can achieve the representativeness that they are equally responsible for. And in order to promote that real equality of opportunities in terms of access and employment conditions, it is necessary to boost their ability to undertake and promote the conditions necessary to facilitate their reconciliation — and this is very important — of personal, family and work life, always speaking within a scene of co-responsibility between men and women. Look, just two years ago, the Galician Union launched the VII Galician Strategic Plan for Equal Opportunities for Women and Men for the 2017-2020 period. With regard to rural women, the following objectives are highlighted in this plan: professional development of rural women and the sea as a motor for demographic dynamization and economic growth of our municipalities; reducing the digital divide of gender in access, knowledge, type and intensity of use of information and communication technologies, especially in rural areas; supporting the empowerment of rural women and their incorporation into the decision-making structures of the agricultural, livestock and fisheries sectors. Strengthen the female associative movement and the presence, leadership and participation of women in the association structures in general. So by collecting these objectives, the Union's bet on creating opportunities and the impulse for real equality will be, as it is, a prime axis in all the actions that we carry out in rural Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-23-DSPG133.u606	Thank you very much, Counselor. There's no more business to deal with, get the session up.
