ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u1	Good morning. Let's resume the session with questions to the president. Before we begin we greet the first undergraduate students from Melide Institute, as well as the people who accompany us today from the rostrum. Welcome to Parliament! Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the reasons of the Government of Galicia to defend the interests of the bank and not those of the public university of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u2	You have the floor to Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u3	Thank you very much. Good day to all and all. Mr. Feijóo, 15 days ago I was wondering about the cuts and privatizations in public health, and today I want to ask you about the cuts and also the privatizations that can be given from universities. But before I come into this question, I think it's important for you to tell — and let me tell you — that you owe us an apology to all women, and especially to the pregnant women of Verin. They owe us an apology for their political cowardice by hiding behind professionals, their lies and their frivolity. He told us he was closing the delivery room for security, and we're already seeing what security is! [[Applause]] What they're doing is risking the health of women and the rights of children. [[Applause]] And really, Mr. Feijóo, who has nothing to say after the trial had to be made to prevent a Verín woman from stopping in an ambulance on the way to Ourense? Do you really have nothing to say after seeing that woman rip the baby out of her arms to move it without her to Ourense? And you don't have anything to say when they move the mother and they have two hours of sitting in a chair in the corridors of Ourense hospital?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u4	Mrs. Pontón, please, on the matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u5	Mr. Feijóo, I want to tell you that this has a name called "institutional violence against women." And you're the most responsible for that situation because of the political decisions you've made. [[Applause]] We ask him to rectify and support the BNG initiative we are demanding...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u6	Mrs. Pontón, on the matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u7	...that the pediatric emergencies are recovered...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u8	Mrs. Pontón, on the matter. It's two calls to the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u9	...and that the neighborhood of Verín will recover. [[Applause]] Mr President, I wish you would call the President of the Council on the matter when he turns aside for a minute, it would be a novelty in this parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u10	No, no, that's not the case.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u11	I'll deal with you! Please, Mr. President, we're tired of seeing how you don't answer the questions. The cowardice of the President of Parliament, too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u12	That'll be a question of that presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u13	In any case, Mr. Feijóo, we also want to talk about what is going on in this country with universities and we want to know why your government is acting as a testier for the interests of Abanca, promoting a private university that will not contribute anything to this country, and acts as a testier even by skipping the prevailing legality. [[Murmurs.]] Because the law is very clear: First, it states that private universities, like the public, not only have to be taught, have to have research. And that project doesn't meet that requirement. The law also prohibits private universities from doubling existing titles. And this requirement doesn't meet the private university of Abanca either. And that's not just what we've been telling you since the BNG, and so are the three directors of this country's public universities. [[Applause]] Why a privilege deal at a bank university, Mr. Feijóo? Because we see how while you put a red carpet on the private university, what you're doing with public universities is making it difficult to increase squares, limit the implementation of new headlines or maintain a funding plan that meant a major cut in the funds that the universities had. That is why we ask him to rectify and make three proposals: firstly, to comply with the law and not to continue with this project of private university in Abanca; secondly, to increase resources for public universities: EUR 30 million for 2020, and finally to feel that you are already negotiating a new funding plan, because it is not worth extending what exists because the universities in this country are suffocating.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Reply by the President of the Galician Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Pontón, I'm not going to enter the BNG radicalization escalation. I understand that you are partners of Bildu, of the party of the ex-terras, but don't worry, Your Honor, that there are also other partners of Bildu who will ask me about the matter of Verín. [[Murmurs.]] I am deeply sorry that you believe that pediatricians who have made the decision to transfer the child of Verín are subject to "institutional violence." You insult everyone: the pediatricians, the obstetricians, the gynaecologists, the midwives, the public health of the country, the Government of the Union, the president of the Union... I really appreciate you talking to me about colleges, because I think that at the public universities in Wales a good decade ago. First, because the Greeks are the ones we pay the least to be able to take their children or daughters to universities, the ones we pay the least from all over Spain, with the lowest university rates in Spain, frozen for a decade. Even so, because universities maintain stable funding throughout the economic crisis. [[Applause]] Two thousand and four hundred and eighty million euros is funding agreed with the principals between 2016 and 2020, but we also agreed between 2011 and 2015. Therefore, the funding agreed over the decade. Second, because this university in Greece is better organized. And it's better organized because we're dealing with the principals, unfortunately against -- I suppose -- of their opinion, a map of titrations agreed between all universities, and also specialized universities, because we also deal with the principals about campus specialization. So, Mrs. Pontón, here it's cheaper to study than in autonomous nationalist communities. For example, it is cheaper to study in Galicia than in the Catalonian community, the triple most expensive in Catalonia, or, for example, in Spain, where it is the double most expensive to study on average at a university in the rest of Spain than in the Greek universities. That means we've saved families nothing more and nothing less than two hundred million euros of university fees since we got to the government. Mrs. Pontón, we're going to continue to work to finance the improvement of the public university; we're going to continue to work because we have agreements with the rectors for the titration maps, and also for the selection and specification of campuses, to which we dedicate sixteen million euros and we've created eight campuses of specialization projects. You're talking to me about an initiative that proposes to do a more university in Galicia. Do you know what any initiative has to do? To comply with the Organic Law of Universities, the Law of the General Administration of the State, the Organic Law of Universities in Spain. That's what you have to do, and also meet some additional requirements that are more demanding of the Galician University Law. By the way, Your Honor, who proposes to create a new university is a non-profit foundation. Don't keep manipulating. A non-profit foundation, where all political forces are! And I want to remind you that this proposal to create a non-profit university voted in favour of the founding of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and the Tides. What do you accuse your partners of privatizing the university in Galicia, Mrs. Pontón? [[Protests.]] Is that exactly what you're accused of, Mrs. Pontón? [[Applause]] Really, Your Honor, don't even read the papers and don't even know we're in a state of law. Mrs. Pontón, neither Galicia nor Spain is a banana republic. If you comply with the laws, any initiative has the right and obligation in accordance with the state legal order and the Greek legal order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u16	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u17	I understand that for the BNG it is to comply with the laws that sounds like a nightmare. No, Mrs. Pontón, the fall is to bring a complaint to a camera because an initiative, in this case for no profit, wants to propose a university in compliance with state law and the German law. Your Honor, we will continue to demand all the requirements for any kind of initiative, but do not forget, Mrs Pontón, that both the Tides of Podemos and the Socialist Party, that is, their partners, voted in favour of this proposal. Nothing else and thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u19	Mr. Feisé, I see him very desperate. Of course, when you don't have any arguments, you've got to go out for you. [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u20	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u21	Yes, yes. I don't know if you're talking about partners, right? I don't know if you are, Mr. Feijóo, to talk about partners. [[Applause]] Of course, don't manipulate, because we're sick of his manipulation. I don't insult anyone, I'm denouncing this parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u22	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u23	...the unsustainable situation that a woman had to live and, of course, she won't shut me up. And of course I'm radical in defending women's rights, of course!; radicals in defending that children and children of this country, born where they are born, have to have the same services, and radicals in defending that public health services cannot be closed precisely where they need them most. [[Applause]] Of course you do, Mr. Feijó! [[Applause]] You'll know why you're defending other interests. Of course, I don't know how to define his justification in relation to the support he's giving to a university of a bank, leaping into the prevailing legality, because, finally, to tell us that Abanca has no interest in profit is that it sounds like a joke of taste, Mr. Feijóo. [[Laughter]] Please don't take our hair off. [[Applause]] Do you know the university law? The Welsh university law says there has to be enough funding for research, and you know that the project you are presenting is not supported by that professor. And the University Law also says, Mr. Feijóo, that the new titles that are implemented through a private university cannot mean duality, and each and every one of the proposals already exist in the public university system. What you have to explain to us is why this deal of favor to Banca, why this deal of favor to Escotet. But don't you think you've given that Venezuelan businessman a lot of gifts? He was given the boxes after we invested nine billion euros! [[Applause]] Tell us, Mr. Feijóo, what more gifts you have to make to that Venezuelan businessman and why he's putting the interests of a bank ahead of the interest and compliance of the law, because that's what we're talking about. They're telling him about the law, too, by the universities. And don't hide yourself from your responsibilities, because it's you who decides to keep up with the process of a project, giving a patent of course to a bank entity in order to break the law in this country. We insist, Mr. Feijóo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u24	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u25	...don't go ahead with that project. Second, I really support the public university, because you know that your funding plan was imposed with twenty percent cuts, they had no alternative to universities. And you know that in the budget project you just approved doesn't say they're going to negotiate a new funding plan, they say...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u26	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u27	...that they will extend what already exists...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u29	...that is, to extend the cuts at the public university. Mr. Feijó, stop being...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u30	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u31	...a bank server...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u33	...and really becomes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u34	Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u35	...to serve the interests of this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u36	Thank you. Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u37	Your Honor, the most radical party I have any agreement with is the Galician Nationalist Block. When we agree, we wake up. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And look at you guys being radical! And look at you going to Bildu and the Republican Left of Catalonia! [[Laughter]] And look at Bildu's shame! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If I had taken photos with Bildu like you, what would you be calling me right now, Mrs. Pontón? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Don't worry, I'm used to everything... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u38	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u39	...even if they call me "desperate." At least I won't tell you that you are a desperate woman, Mrs. Pontón. [[Murmurs.]] Such a masculine charge would produce! [[Protests.]] But don't worry, Mrs Pontón, who — I repeat again — at the end of this period of control calls attention to the Podemos tides and to the PSOE for voting in favour of this proposal in the Founding Patrol. [[Murmurs.]] Call them in consultation and break the pacts for pseudoprivating what I don't know yet again. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Pontón, in Spain there are thirty-seven private universities, thirty-seven!, in autonomous socialist communities and in autonomous nationalist communities, where you are partners: in Catalonia, five private universities; in Basque Country, two; in Castile and León, five; in Cantabria, four; in Aragon, one; in Andalusia, another. You mean that public education is privatized there? Mrs. Pontón, why are you kidding people? Second, you're again confusing Abanca with the sinking, Abanca is a bank, Afundation is a non-profit entity...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u40	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u41	...that is managing the social work of the boxes, where all the political forces are in the patronage, and all voted in favour, the Tides and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party; by the way, the representatives of the Board abstained. [[Murmurs.]] So, Your Honor, continue to think that we don't live in a rule of law and that the laws are fulfilled when it commands it; when you like BNG, you have to comply with the law and when you don't like BNG, it's that it's illegal or privatising, or evil. Mrs. Pontón, Galicia has an excellent public education, much more complete than when you managed it. In public schools we have the highest ratio of teachers by students from Spain. In these public schools, school failure has fallen more than ever, and these public schools have just believed that we are the most important regions of the OECD in the PISA report, with the most excellent data that ever had public education in Galicia. [[Applause]] Your Honor, this public school believes that we multiply the double the vocational training squares. And this same bet on public education believes that we have the most accessible universities for the Greek families of all Spanish families. That's what really bothers you. What bothers you is that public education has the best quality data and the best accreditation data when measured by international agencies. And since it can't resist reality, it takes away from the permanent ghost of privatization. That's book, Mrs. Pontón. Look, there's a university in Galicia with far more difficult conditions to implement than in the rest of Spain, I suppose the people who meet the law will have a right. Or do you think that those who comply with the law have no right and you, who constantly and continuously call for the non-compliance of the laws, have more right than those who comply with the laws? Your Honor, this is a rule of law -- I insist -- it's not the banana republic of the BNG. This is a rule of law, and as a rule of law, the laws are enforced. We should not worry that Galicia has more supply, what we should be concerned about is whether public universities are the most accessible in Spain, and sounds, bothers those who love it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u42	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u43	Look, Your Honor... yes, you're in love with whoever you love, Mrs. Pontón. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] You'll be holding on now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u44	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u45	...that there is a foundation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u46	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u47	...that wants to create a university in Galicia just because they have no arguments to criticize public education in the country. Follow me, Your Honor. And about Verín's affairs, I'm an institutional president. You didn't ask me the question. Now I have a chance to debate with the two groups. I know you neither respect the government nor respect the president, at least respect Parliament... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u48	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u49	...and the parliamentary groups, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u50	Thank you, President. Two questions are now raised in a cumulative way; in particular, one question from the Group of the Left's Joint Parliamentary Group and another question from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Antón Sánchez García of the G.P. Group of the Left, on the forecasts of the Government of Greece regarding the maintenance of the fight against the demographic crisis with measures such as the closure of the Paritory of Verín Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Gonzalo Caballero Míguez, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the forecasts of the Government of Galicia regarding the rectification of its health policy that is causing protests by professionals and mass mobilizations throughout Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u51	We start with the Joint Left Group, and for that we have the floor of your spokesperson, Mr. Anton Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u52	Good morning, Mr. Feijó. Those we know of him know how much respect you and the parliamentary groups deal with. If there's still a little shame left, write down and apologize, Mr. Feijóo. Rectify immediately the decision of closing the neighborhood of Verín and apologize to the women of Verín, to the people of Verín and to the family who had to live a lamentable, surreal situation, with a transfer to Ourense that must never happen, separating the mother's child at three minutes' birth, with an hour's journey, and the mother sitting in Ourense hospital in a wheelchair for two hours with even bleeding. Apologize if you're a little humble, Mr. Feijóo. With one decision: the closure of the Parish of Verín, you attacked women's rights, public health, and again attacked the rural one. It attacks women because it lowers their rights, further undermines public health. With you, Mr. Feijóo, to know your health policies you only need to see the faces of those who do business with private health, who have smiled permanently, and see how all the professionals from above below the Greek health system are on the verge of war in recent years against their cuts in public health. [[Applause]] The decision to close the neighborhood of Verín is one more — yes, of the most serious — of the decisions that go against the countryside of this country, which are against the demographics of this country. It's a decision that aggravates the hellish circle where you've put your policies to the countryside. Do you think closing public services could make people live in rural areas? Are we getting the hair? With this drift, where are we going to stop, Mr. Feijóo? We close public services because there are not enough children. The closing of public services is that there are even fewer children. The data do not lie: when you came to rule, there were in the Verin district one hundred and forty-nine births, today there are 100. And by the way, from 2005 to 2009, they grew, just as the crop balance improved. Today, Galicia is the worst vegetative balance in the Spanish state, and Ourense is the worst in all Galicia, Mr. Feijóo. You have doubled — and more so — Galicia's negative crop balance by its policies precisely, among other things, of cutting public services. And with this drift, what? First, let's close Verín and then we'll end up serving all the people of Ourense in Vigo — as Mr. Félix Rubial has already announced — because closing public services makes that hellish circle worse. Above all, they lie and hide with pretext the only reason behind them, which is to continue with the public clipping, Mr. Feijóo. I've always been told in the house that it's best to get colored once you yellow a hundred. And you've been getting yellow a few times these days. Because, first, it was the imperience of the professionals — failing to respect the professionals at the Verín Hospital — and then it was the failure of pediatricians, and yesterday it was said that under the responsibility of the women, they could reopen the parish. Is it forbidden to rule, Mr. Feijóo? Don't you realize what you're making a joke? Are you nervous? Didn't you expect the reaction of the people of Verín, even the reaction of the people who belong to the People's Party, Mr. Feijóo, didn't you expect it? What world does he live in? Because besides attacking public health, attacking the rural environment, attacking women, what proves this case is that you are disconnected from reality and sinning of pride. How do you think the people of Verin are gonna stand still in front of a fact like this...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u53	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u54	...that he has so much symbolism? Closing a parrot, like closing a school, means saying no to the future of Verín. That's why people went out in mass protest because of this decision. Right now, Mr. Feijóo, and apologize!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u55	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Your spokesman, Mr Gonzalo Caballero, has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Feijóo, 17 days ago he stopped working in the parish in Verín, 17 days ago that you cut off the public services at the Verín Hospital, 17 days ago that you marked a turning point at the end of your political mandate. Because, Mr. Feijóo, the closure of the Parish of Verín, which worked with quality and was of great use to Verín, is an attack of his policy on Greek public health, is an attack on the rural environment and is also a demonstration of his lack of credibility and his lack of speech at parliamentary headquarters. You claimed here, Mr. Feijóo, that there was no other way to close the parlor for reasons of quality and safety. You pointed out that the births were going down steadily and that the doctors were saying that there was a need to close that parity, and that there was no decision against that criterion that you called "technical". It was not a technical criterion, it was a political criterion of a government which is an indolent government, without empathy for the country; a government that does not suffer with cuts in rural areas, with cuts in public health; a government that does not have the ability to place its president in front of the neighbors of Verín to explain its decisions. His health adviser pointed out that the godfather of Verín had to be closed "for security," he said, textually, "for his mothers and children." And the health department manager, his manager -- what he already had in Vigo's health area -- said the first criterion was the number of deliveries. You came to say, Mr. Feijóo, in this chamber that all pediatricians and gynecologists in the Ourense Health Area supported that decision. You lied, you cheated again on this parliamentary chamber, and I'm sending myself to the Session Diary. It's not true that all gynecologists and all pediatricians in the Ourense Health Area support that decision, it's a lie. The Xynecology chiefs of the hospitals of Verín and the boat have said so clearly. Javier Castrillo, head of Xynecology of Verín, textually, "The parlor closes by a question of management, of cuts, of removing a right to a rural area and depressed by the cost of it." And the chief of ship Xinecology: "Indirectly they're selling us that we have to have 500 births a year, that if there aren't those five hundred or six hundred births, the quality of care is not good." And that same Xynecology boss of the boat says, "They're lying, they're scaring people about the quality of attendance in comarcas without giving data. In Valdeorras our results are good." Doctors deny your opinion. There's a political criterion, Mr. Feijóo. You put public policies in a vicious circle in Galicia: where there are no people, they cut public services, and if they cut public services, there will be fewer mechanisms for more people. They don't meet the delivery ratios at Cee's Comarcal Hospital, at Monforte, at Burela, at Valdeorras, at Salnes, at Barbanza, at Verín. Are you going to shut down all of the comarcal hospitals? Is that your political approach, Mr Feijóo? You, Mr. Feijóo, have decided to close the parlor; you came to this chamber to refer that decision, you said clearly. And in front of you is a massive mobilization in Verín, Ourense and Galicia, and media attention across Spain to put it against the ropes. To tell you that in the face of your public service defense speech you are an enemy of the public...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u57	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u58	...is an ultraconservative, Mr Feijóo, who has no political centrality or defends public health. Even Baltar, Mr. Feijóo, has confronted you! [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] To the PP of Ourense... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u59	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u60	...crashed with the policies of the Feijóo People's Party! [[Murmurs.]] You, Mr. Feijóo, have to rectify, you have to stop all those responsible...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u61	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u62	...from the Council of Galicia that they validated, they referred to that political decision.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u63	Thank you, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u64	You have to apologize to the neighborhood of Verín and Ourense,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u65	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u66	...you have to go talk to the citizen, because the closure of the neighborhood of Verín, Mr. Feijóo,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u67	Time, time...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u68	...will be what marks the end of his stage in front of the Galician Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u69	Mr. Gonzalo Caballero, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u70	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u71	Thank you. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u72	Thank you very much. Mr. Knight, after you call me "superconservative," I find that you have as much training in political thinking as in health management, tending to zero. Mr. Caballero and Mr. Sánchez, you know perfectly well that the decision to suspend births in Verín is a health decision: "The optionals of the Obstetrics and Gynecology Service, as well as those of the Pediatrics Service of the University Hospital Complex of Ourense, we want to publicly support the decision taken by the Management to suspend delivery activity at the Comarcal Hospital of Verín. We believe that this decision has been made on the basis of criteria of care quality and recommendations of the main scientific societies of gynecology and pediatrics, as well as the recommendations of the Ministry of Health itself." [[Murmurs.]] Signed by all gynecologists, obstetricians and pediatricians of the Ourense Hospital Complex, with its signature and its national identity document. Do you think these gentlemen want to cut health? Do you think these gentlemen know less about the quality and care delivery of women and babies than Mr. Sánchez and Mr. Caballero? Really, ladies and gentlemen, can you contradict this free and independent care and technical approach for gynaecologists and pediatricians at Ourense Hospital? [[Murmurs.]] Gentlemen, regrettably you come here to talk about this matter, of which you simply play with your ears and evil. [[Murmurs.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have no choice from the Left in the Commune or the Socialist Party about the health policies of the Galician Union, and you've been preaching in the desert for ten years. Gentlemen, note this number: 16.4 percent. That's the figure where we've been lowering surgical expectations in public hospitals in Galicia for the last ten years. Sixty-seven days when you were ruling, fifty-six when we're ruling, the last figure. And you also note this ranking: there are only three autonomous communities in Spain with better care ratios than the Galician Health Service in regard to surgical care: Basque Country, Madrid and La Rioja; next, Galicia. Your Honor, what do you propose, the assistance model of Andalusia? One hundred and sixty-four days of half waiting, three times as much as Galicia. Are you offering me Castile-A Mancha? One hundred and nine days in front of fifty-six, more than twice as much of Galicia. Are you offering me stremadura? One hundred and eleven days, more than double Galicia. Are you proposing to me on average in Spain? One hundred and fifteen days, more than double Galicia. Is that the healthcare and health model that they're proposing to us? Look, ladies and gentlemen, we have been managing public health and improving public health every year, but not because of the health administration, but primarily because of the commitment of health professionals. We have a public health system where the Greeks feel more satisfied, and I refer to the assessments made public by the Ministry of Health in the health barometer. We have two thousand seven hundred professionals working now more than they had when you were in government. Never before have there been so many health services working, no rapid pathways against cancer, no wider vaccination schedule, no more home care doctors, no more voluntary phone calls for anyone who wants to call his head doctor, and a high-tech, which we've also been criticized for. Your Honor, eighty percent of the Greeks have a renewed or expanded public hospital. Keep that headline, Your Honor. And now you're talking to me about a chronic problem, which is the lack of pediatricians. The two reasons the professionals proposed to suspend the delivery interventions in Verín were for technical and health issues. First, because there's not a number of births that we understand to be great, but above all, because we don't have pediatricians to care for babies coming out of the maternal cloister. [[Murmurs.]] Ladies and gentlemen, when a baby is born, that baby is a patient of a pediatrician, not a gynecologist. Therefore, Your Honor, you know there are no pediatricians. Let me just read the country's newspaper headlines very quickly, all this year 2019: The Herald of Aragon: "The Fraga Health Center has been out of pediatrics for almost two months." Reply by the Government of Aragon: "There is no pediatrician in the job market and, at the moment, no other specialist has been found to fill the vacancies." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Cantabria: "The lack of pediatricians generates a deep discomfort in the district of Asón," November 9, before yesterday. He passed by, ladies and gentlemen, from two ordinary professionals to attend this center to the absence of these professionals. We're still reading newspapers from Spain. Extremadura: "They report the lack of pediatrics at the Naval Moral Health Center of the Mata, with 3,600 minors attended by two doctors." In Verín, there are less than half of primary care cared for by three pediatricians. Let's keep going. In Basque Country: "From the Osakideza confirm that there are no pediatricians to attend in Euskadi." And we continue in Catalonia, El Periodico de Cataluña, February 10th: "No pediatrician in about twenty health centers in Catalonia". [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, why should you, having a little more training or, at least, information, not really want to talk about our country's public health? You know that there are no pediatricians and we've been asking for two years to increase the offer of pediatrics and the ability to train pediatricians in Galicia, you know perfectly well. And he's making a carnage use of public health, playing with the safety of babies. It's unheard of, gentlemen! Being playing with life, with the safety of babies who are born in Verín, I find it regrettable, absolutely regrettable, without any limits and no cuts. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, you know that this birthplace will be reopened when we have pediatricians who guarantee quality health care to any of the babies who are born in the birthplace of Verin. They know perfectly well. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u73	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u74	We've summoned pediatrics squares in June, vacancies. We'll reconvene Pediatric Squares on December 9th, and we'll be waiting. But you also know, ladies and gentlemen, that there have never been so many health services in comarcas hospitals like now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u75	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u76	...never, Mr. Knight. If you don't know, let me read to you: five new hospital hospitals, 20 and one more clinics in the comarcas hospitals. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In Verín? In Verín, there's a consultation of specialists who didn't exist before: Neurology, Medical Oncology, Cardiology, Psychiatry, Urology, Digestive and Rheumatology. Why are you saying we're dismantling this hospital?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u77	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u78	How can you say that we make this decision on an economic basis? The entire Verín template follows where it was, the obstetricians, the gynaecologists and the matrons. Why do they come here with lies and falsehoods? But they don't even respect the lives of babies, ladies?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u79	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u80	Is this not a topic...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u81	Thank you, thank you... silence, silence... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u82	...sufferally serious to say: we agree, while there are no pediatricians, we suspend delivery.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u83	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u84	This is the proposal of a responsible government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u85	Thank you, it's over...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u86	...supported by pediatricians and gynecologists in the country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u87	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u88	You and your consciences, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u89	Your time is up. Thank you. Replica, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u90	Yes, I asked him to see if there was any shame left; we have just proved that he has none left. You'll be proud of yourself, Mr Feijóo, you'll be proud of your pride and cynicism! [[Applause]] Sovereignty, cynicism and lies. What was missing now is that you accused these groups of playing with the safety of babies, after what you provoked with the birth of that family, after what you are cutting, Mr. Feijóo, that you accuse us of. [[Murmurs.]] That's the maximum degree of cynicism you've got us used to, and what you're going through when you have no arguments. You have the battle lost, Mr. Feijóo, the sooner you finally rectify, the better for you and the better for all. Society won't allow you to close the neighborhood of Verín. [[Applause]] Accept it, Mr. Feijóo, for he is making the ridicule; before hiss he is making the ridicule in a pathetic course of excuses, one after another. Gives data from public health in Galicia. Yes, we can say a lot of data, Mr Feijóo, but the reality is that from the CAP, the possible nurses, primary care doctors, the janitors, the janitors, they're all on the street protesting against their health policy. That's the reality, Mr Feijóo, in Galicia and not in the rest of the state, which we are interested in here, that's the reality. And they protested for a public health that they had to support with their efforts, while you cut and while private health constantly increased their business. Or how can it be explained, Mr. Feijóo, that in the worst years of the crisis we are spending more and more on private health? You say there are no pediatricians, as if you had nothing to do with...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u91	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u92	...as if you had nothing to do with the fact that there were no pediatricians, with your policies here and Mr. Rajoy's policies of cutting public services. As if they had nothing to do with it! [[Murmurs.]] You have all the tools to set the conditions for pediatricians in all hospitals. The only thing that prevents him is his neoliberal creed: cutting with the goal of giving business to the private. You... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u93	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u94	He's talking about reports from Ourense, from Ourense Hospital, he's also talking about Verín professionals, because if you accuse us of disrespecting Ourenses, you don't respect those of Verín and Valdeorras, Mr. Feijóo. There are two contradictory reports; it is their willingness to cut down, to withdraw public services that lead to areas such as Verín and rural Galician disaster, put in an infernal circle of destruction, and so prove the data. Mr. Feijóo, when you came to power there were in Ourense 2,058 births, in 2018 it was 1,488, a third reduction. That's the way their policies lead us to. When you arrived there was a vegetative balance...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u95	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u96	...in Galicia of -8,000, something less than eight thousand, and improving. And today we've almost reached 16,000 for their policies, because for people to have children they have to have economic opportunities to live decently, not to have precarious jobs, to have decent wages and to have decent public services where they live...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u97	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u98	...both in rural or in cities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u99	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u100	Which is what you're increasing inequality with.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u101	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u102	Mr. Feijó, advice, not as a friend, but advice: correct as soon as possible...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u103	Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u104	He gets colored one day and avoids getting yellowed by a hundred.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u105	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u106	Mr. Feijóo, today you've definitely put the boat on the rocks. Today you have made a mistake in your planning and not rectification. And when the ship goes peak it is necessary to have a ruler with temper and ability to keep it on board. You today, Mr. Feijóo, lacks Greek public health, fails the rural environment, cheats again, turns your back on the gynaecologists in the areas of Verín and Valdeorras, who say otherwise than you. Or was there no quality and safety for the newborns and for the mothers who gave them birth until now, for example, when they worked in Verín? Is there no guarantee? What was the problem with hundreds of births in these parishes of different comarcas hospitals? Will you continue with this policy of cuts leading the cuts to public health? You live in a happy Arcadia, an unreal world. You are an empathetic ruler who does not hurt the needs of his people. You, Mr. Feijóo, today ratify yourself again in this escalation of nonsense. And of course you have an ultra-conservative strategy! You're a sample of that Gallardón who said he was a great centrist and had the most conservative policy for Madrid. You, too, who lie without any kind of shame, without getting colored, said the other day that all the gynaecologists and pediatricians of the Ourense Health Area wanted to close the walls, for example, in Verín. And today, Mr. Feijóo, you do not rectify your mistake. You are continually lying in this parliamentary headquarters. Also when they get angry when we tell them that this ultra-conservative force here has an agreement with Vox, and now there's the number two of Vox here in Galicia saying that he's coming to save you in the next autonomous elections if you get the votes. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u107	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u108	I know this whole scenario of the popular party's nerves is because the loss of the majority of elections in the country leaves them out of company. And the cuts and the attack you make on Welsh public health won't forgive him the Galicians and the Greeks, who want a strong state of well-being in Galicia, a state of strong well-being in Verín, a parlor that works. And I mean, Mr. Feijóo: a ruler, with billions of euros each year, of course he has the capacity to put the technical and human means to work in Vienna. [[Mr. President bisba.]] When the Greeks and the Greeks give a new majority to the country, when there is a progressive government in Galicia, the socialists guarantee that the Parisian will have all the technical means... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u109	Quiet please! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u110	...and human capital for it to function safely again. It's time to change and get it out of the front of Galician Union. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u111	Silence! Quiet, Mr Pazos. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u112	Every day that happens, you're a major problem for the Greeks and the Greeks. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u113	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Close the question, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u114	Mr. Knight, not even in such an important, serious and rigorous matter as to speak of the health of babies avoids their litany. You mix the health of babies, the safety of mothers, with Vox, with the change of government, with political change, with the exhaustion of the president of the board. Are you ever really going to be up to date, not as a secretary general of the Socialist Party, but as an act of deputy? Can you really come to this camera and talk about these kind of trivial issues when what we're doing is securing the life of babies who are born in the birthplace of Verin? While we don't have the safe coverage of the necessary pediatrics, both gynecologists and all pediatricians in the hospital Ourense Health Area, who make the guards there, and those know what means they have, they know what difficulties there may be when a baby comes in bad conditions... and you come here saying they're lying. But what lies here, Mr. Knight? With all due respect, Mr. Sánchez, if you want to talk about nursing, talk about nursing. You should at least know what the nursing ratio is in Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] I know you don't know her, but there are more nurses per thousand inhabitants in Galicia than in the rest of Spain. [[The President bisba.]] You should know the fertility rate in Galicia. I know you don't know her, if you don't mind. He says that during the bipartite legislation more children and children were born in Galicia, and the fertility rate, Your Honor, is one hundredth more now than during the bipartite. But you don't care! He says we have the worst birth data, when it turns out that they've just left the semester and it's the worst crop balance in Spain over the last 20 years. And they're on top of worse asturias and Castle and Lion than Galicia. You say we're the Autonomous Community with the worst population policy, and we've been the fifth autonomous community since 2009 where births have dropped. You don't care exactly! It gives him exactly the same thing as saying something against it. What more do you give, Your Honor, if you come here simply from a break-up party! What's the matter? If what comes to break you're not the reality, but the truth, Your Honor. I don't care what you say. But if in the migration balance between 2009 and 2019 40 thousand people entered Galicia more than they left. But if they don't even read the published data... [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u115	Mr. Lake and Mr. Sánchez, silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u116	I understand the truth is disturbing, Mr. Sánchez. But the truth is, in Galicia, 12 percent only of Pediatric Squares are covered by family doctors, and the average of Spain is twenty-five percent. Twenty-five percent of the pediatric squares in Spain are not covered by pediatricians, but by family doctors, and in Galicia twelve percent, half. If you say you want to talk and give me advice, not as a friend; it won't be that you have a disciplinary record in your party! Yes, Your Honor, in the health care there are only friends who want to improve health and those who want to do demagogy with health, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] That's the difference between a friend and a demagogue, Your Honor! [[Applause]] When we're saying that in the comarcas hospitals in Galicia, you're doing some thirty-two thousand more interventions a year now than in 2009, don't you think that's improving public health in the comarcas? When the comarcas hospitals are doing, for example, five thousand eight hundred to eleven thousand five hundred surgeries of major outpatient surgery, that is, four thousand more, is it not improving the public health of the comarcas? When in the comarcal hospitals we have twenty and one clinical services, by specialists, that they didn't have before, aren't we improving the health of the comarcals? When we improve Salnés, when we make a master plan at Lucense Marine Hospital, aren't we improving comarcas hospitals? Ladies and gentlemen, let's try to put this matter into practice, if you like. I think we all agree that the desirable is that pregnancy without risks and without complications can be found in Verín; we agree. What's needed is that there may be these kinds of births, without complications, because the complicated programme and take them to Ourense, the essential thing is that they don't risk either the mother's life or the baby's life; we agree. In order not to risk mother's life, we need gynecologists, obstetricians and midwives, there are; we agree. So that baby's life won't be in danger, we need pediatricians, and we don't have them right now; we agree. So there are only two options: tell the women in the Summer Area to give birth to gynecologists and pediatricians, or tell them the truth and warn them that while we don't have enough pediatricians, there's an obvious risk to their children's health. [[Interruptions.]] I am president now, and this is what I say to the women of Verín: the truth, that while we have no pediatricians -- the problem extended to most autonomous communities -- the logic is to transfer births to Ourense, temporarily suspend births in Verín, and when we have pediatricians again, to recover births in Verín. You gentlemen, what do you propose, what would you do in this case? Would they keep their births in Verín without a pediatrician? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u117	Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u118	...or they'd expect to have pediatricians to keep their delivery in Verín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u119	Mr. Villares, you're not in the debate. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u120	We have it clear, gentlemen. When there are enough pediatricians in Verín and we have the visa and pleasure of the area's Pediatric and Xynecology services, in twenty-four hours, the births of Verín are resumed. That's the proposal of this government, Your Honor. This is the proposal we are going to put forward. [[Applause]] O you with your nonsense! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u121	Thank you, President. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Just a moment of relaxation. This is over, it's been debated. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, yes, perfect. I think it was a clear debate; we were all in the debate. It's clear to me. I also have the right to say something, I'm not going in... for me to be clear. Let's go to non-law proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado and seven other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Ministry of Development in connection with the transport network of goods from the north-west peninsula, as well as the development of the trans-European transport network
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u122	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the Joint Left Group. [[G. P. Joint Left Group, at the initiative of Mr. Marcos Cal Ogando, through his spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-law proposal.Additional amendment.A new point should be added, after the resolution of the non-law proposal: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to prepare a study to put in place the surrounding railway service in Galicia."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u123	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Julia Rodríguez Barreira has the floor. [[Murmurs.]] Wait a minute, Julia, let this be a little quieter. [[Pause.]] Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u124	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. We also welcome all the people who are accompanying us today in this plenary meeting. Julius Verne said, in the mouth of one of his people, that it's best to put himself in the worst, that so one reserves a surprise of the best. The bad thing is that this is not applicable to this government of Mr. Sánchez as far as Galicia is concerned. The success of the past few months believes that the worst places can make it worse; there's Alcoa, the bridge power station, the EVV, the deadlines of the AVE. Today it's about another question that also provides an example of this: the Atlantic corridor. Look: when in February Mr. Abalos presented with a lot of candy the Plan Director of the Atlantic corridor, because we all thought with optimism that there would be continuity to that trend, that action by the Government of Mariano Rajoy, in which in a coordinated manner the governments of Asturias, Galicia, Castile and León and the Government of the State were able to get the European Union to include the northwest peninsula in the Atlantic corridor. All, ladies and gentlemen, we remember those headlines — there is the hemerotheca — those hopeful news, the search for alliances among the communities — in October 2017, the joint declaration of the Asturias, Galicia and Castile and León governments; in December, the inclusion of the extension of the corridor that the Government would propose to the European Union; in May 2018, the request of the President of the Union to the President of the European Parliament — until in June 2018 the European Commission agreed to include the northwestern peninsula in the Atlantic corridor; an agreement that would be ratified in December by the Commission, by the Council of Ministers of Transport of the European Union and also by the plenary of the European Parliament. To these news, ladies and gentlemen, all sorts of statements were added at that time, always in the momentum of the Atlantic corridor, of the collectives and of social, economic and political agents, always from unity, from coordination. And these are the facts, ladies and gentlemen; this is what happened until December 2018. After the inclusion of the northwestern peninsula in the Atlantic corridor, which seemed the most complicated, the next step that corresponded to the central government was to present a planning, a master plan. That is why we were optimistic when in February Mr. Abalos announced that the Atlantic Corridor's Master Plan, until a few days later the Infrastructure Adviser warned us here at the parliamentary headquarters that in the first performance of Mr. Sánchez's Government it turns out that there was an incomplete document, not in consensus with the autonomous communities, that he was ignoring strategic actions, that he did not collect railway connections that were essential and, above all, that he reduced by more than half the three billion euros that the autonomous communities had planned for the necessary actions, for the modernisation of this railway itinerary. And Fomento went on to say that this was not a master plan, that it was the main lines of action. As optimism began to cause concern, ladies and gentlemen, this Parliamentary Group of the People's Party introduced in April — and it was discussed at the plenary meeting — an initiative in which we demanded, inter alia, that this plan be drawn up and that the Atlantic corridor should be presented, the appointment of a commissioner to the corridor. Finally, that it was at the same priority level the Atlantic corridor of what was being done with the Mediterranean corridor. In that debate, the spokesman for the Socialist Group ended up saying that this was a useless proposal. Well, it seems that he was referring to the unnecessary agreement — which was agreed unanimously — as time has passed, and it is believed that we remembered what we agreed did not do anything at all. And it's that ten months later, ladies and gentlemen, that presentation we don't know anything about the Master Plan. Effectiveness, dynamism, positive news has become worrying news, negative news, because the headlines since then, ladies and gentlemen, are as follows: July 2019: "The mayor of A Coruña proposes to leave Vigo outside the Atlantic corridor". "Employers fear that fights will lead to Galicia." "Dividing in Galicia through the priority path of the corridor from Ponferrada and Monforte". "The BNG also sees absurd that the Atlantic corridor passes through Vigo to reach A Coruña." October 2019: "Entrepreneurs denounce the inaction of encouragement to drive the Atlantic corridor". November 2019: Adif takes part in a journey in Tangier, where a map of the railway corridors is presented, in which there is neither the northwest nor Vigo. The information obtained by the president of Porto de Vigo is very clarifying, and so he reports to the media: "I talked to the representative of Adif and told me that there was no money for everything, so they would focus on the return investments in the ports of Algeciras and the Mediterranean." Well, I realize the answer that Vigo's mayor gave him to this concern that he moved to the entrepreneurs, is that it's to note: "The locker maintained that the map presented in Tanger is old and that the plans of Adif were expanded and counted on the Galician ports, as explained by the Pardo de Vera itself, but some officials continue with Adif's theory since the PP was there, and that changed." So, apart from a conflict, they're already selling you to blame for what happened to the People's Party. And these are the facts, ladies and gentlemen. We go from coordinated and effective work to a strategy of inaction and confrontation. And we are not interested in socialist discords except, ladies and gentlemen, in what can harm us all. But he keeps drawing attention that, when the news is a priority of the Mediterranean corridor, a socialist mayor emerges by questioning the plot of the Atlantic corridor, another socialist mayor emerges by saying something else, turns up the permanent mill, the necessary collaborator of the Socialist Party, the BNG, also saying that it is absurd that the corridor has the trace it has. And this creating a confrontation about something where there was an absolute unity before, and there was no question that there were divergences about the corridor plot. You know what's going on? That's what it looks like to be an excuse for the Atlantic corridor to remain in a drawing, while the funds go to the Mediterranean corridor. Why do you know, gentlemen, that the news was published on November 30 while these were the news coming out on the Atlantic corridor? Well, I'm going to read to them: "Fomento will dedicate 4 billion euros to the Mediterranean corridor, while the northwest waits." Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, that the Secretary of State of Infrastructure, Mr. Saura, assumed in the act of this news? So I assumed that in the last year and a half billion euros would be invested in the Mediterranean corridor, and I would commit another four billion euros if the budgets were approved. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the facts, they will understand that we put ourselves at the worst, they will understand that the treatment Galicia is receiving from Mr. Sánchez's Government, even if it is put at the worst, things can get worse. And we, ladies and gentlemen, have an idea, and we are not willing to give up on her. And if socialists want to sow discord and find excuses to prioritize the Mediterranean corridor, we will continue to demand the modernization of the Atlantic corridor, and that this modernization be a reality. And for that, it is necessary to develop, as soon as possible, a master plan with specific projects, quality projects for the northwest peninsula, which allow the network of commodities to be modernised, with Community funds. And time, ladies, count. And that's because last October 16 has opened a new call for the multi-year work programme of the Connect Europe financial mechanism, with seventy-fifty million euros, in different funding lines, which could include projects that are very interesting to Galicia. What have you seen since the call and the funding line was opened? For at the last working meeting that was held, because it was convened by the Directorate-General for Transport of the European Commission, what was found was that the Ministry of Development has made no progress, nothing, ladies and gentlemen, in promoting the network of goods in the north-west with this Community financing mechanism. What are you doing, gentlemen? They're letting time pass, and we can't let time pass. And that's why, ladies and gentlemen, today we are here again, in this plenary session, to urge the Council to demand the Ministry of Development: First, the elaboration and presentation as soon as possible of a Master Plan for the Transport of Goods to the northwest Peninsula, which establishes a programming for the development of a quality rail network, which complies with the requirements laid down for that main network of the trans-European transport network. Secondly, to develop and present specific projects, quality projects, which are compatible with that Master Plan and which allow us to modernise our infrastructure from Community funds. Thirdly, to request the funds of this new call, which was just opened on 16 October, to start the projects necessary for the development of the trans-European transport network in the north-west. And we want to make the salvity that in that summons might have fit the railway project out south of Vigo. He may be a beneficiary of these aid precisely because it is a strategic act for Galicia and northern Portugal. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the "expecting the worst to be surprised at the best" is not being applied to this government in many areas, but unfortunately not in this which has nothing to do with the Atlantic corridor. The facts lead us to wait for the worst, and we suspect they won't let go and they're even able to overcome it. Well, today we ask them to put the interests of Galicia first, and particularly the Socialist Group, those of the Socialist Government and the commitment or priorityization of the socialist Government of that Mediterranean corridor, not only by their vote today, which will certainly support it, as they did in April. What we want is for Mr. Gonzalo Caballero to put order in his ranks, what we want is for him to return to unity and coordination, ladies and gentlemen, which prioritizes the united and coordinated defence of the Atlantic corridor before the venetities and locations of his mayors. We also ask him to enforce his political weight in Madrid, if he has it, defending Galician interests and preventing the Atlantic corridor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u125	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u126	... – already finished, Mr President—is relegated to a final plan by a Mediterranean corridor clearly prioritized by the Government of Mr Sánchez. If he does not, Your Honor, or lacks political weight, or lacks leadership, or his commitment to Galicia is non-existent. So, ladies and gentlemen, I hope you will support this initiative. For our part, nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left, Mr Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u128	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. The People's Party comes to ask the PSdeg to have political weight in Madrid, and says if he can't get it he lacks leadership. It's the same thing you'll tell Feijóo for the seven years in which, while he ruled the PP in the state, he couldn't achieve anything at all. And now we will talk — don't worry — about this. We did not bring a multitude of headlines—I don't know if any other voice that will intervene them—from entrepreneurs, political organizations, trade unions, social groups, who for many years have been making criticisms of the central government, when Mariano Rajoy ruled, for not having advanced on this issue. It would take us five minutes to read all the headlines you've read now in seconds. The reality is that the People's Party didn't move a finger to incorporate the Spanish northwest into the railway corridor, until it brought out Europe's colors by recognizing that there was no request from the Government of Mariano Rajoy on that matter, when we were asking about it. And it was from that moment on when they didn't have anything else to do the paripé. You come here to ask the others to do what you haven't done. This is common in the LNPs that you bring to urge the central government; it is the bread of every day of your initiatives. It is curious that the People's Party now has a sudden interest in dynamizing the railway; what it hasn't had in recent decades, dismantling and abandoning infrastructures and services, reducing personnel and budgets. That's your railway management data. A abandonment and a lack of interest that led Galicia to transport goods by rail under five percent, far below the state average, and to the paralysis of the dry port of Monforte. That's the interest the People's Party has in goods and rail transport of railway goods in Galicia. That's the interest. That's the data, and that's the reality -- not the stories that you're going to count here. Now yes, now you're very interested. We should be glad to see the importance of the development and dynamization of the railway, both for economic and social development and for the fight against climate change. But the truth is, of course, we don't trust ourselves because the data are what they are and their performances over all these years on the railway are what they are. I therefore hope you understand that we do not trust anything at all in the matter. Well, we think they bring this only for advertising and propaganda, which is what you do. Because there is already a consensus on this issue in this chamber, there is already a consensus in this chamber to attach Galicia to the freight corridor. What we understand is that the Government of Galicia should be working to achieve it, and not bring you an initiative here. So, I don't know if you don't trust the work of the People's Party's Government Board at Galicia, or if you just come to make publicity and propaganda, because, as there is already a consensus, the Government should be working on this issue. You are the champions of the destruction of the railway in Galicia. While ruling Mariano Rajoy invested zero euros in the railway infrastructure of Galicia, zero euros of investment during the Government of Mariano Rajoy in Galicia in the railway infrastructure. An attitude that led us to have the line with the most incidences of the entire state, that of Ferrol-Ribadeo, with nine hundred incidences per year, 2.5 daily, and that of the slower line of the whole state, Ferrol-A Coruña. That's your data, that's your interest in the railway after seven years with zero euro investment, Euro!, in the railway infrastructure of Galicia. So now you come here and tell us what investments Mariano Rajoy has made in the Galician railway infrastructure. Now you have another turn to be able to do this. And what did the Galician People's Party do during these years in which Fomento abandoned the Galician railway infrastructure? For Fomento was very good at Galicia; the spokesperson of the People's Group said so, and also said so by the president of the Galician Union. We are obviously not going to ask them to do what they do now: demand that they act immediately. For seven years there was no hurry, now we must act immediately. We're not going to ask him to do that, but at least that they were cautious and didn't go out in the media saying that Fomento was being wonderfully carried on with Galicia. We — as it were — introduced an amendment to a fundamental issue for the dynamisation of the railway. Well, see if you're serious and if there's really interest in the People's Party. If there's a change to your policies and there's a shift in your policies, because maybe we're lucky and they accept this amendment that the study is being prepared — that this can be done by the Galician Union — for the establishment of the neighbourhood in Galicia. It's an addition amendment, and there should be no problem. Let's see if you're really interested in dynamizing the railway in Galicia. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u129	Thank you, Mr. Cal. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u130	Good morning, ladies. We are again in a new chapter of the People's Classics, which is that when we rule things don't get settled, we don't talk to governments that have the same color, just if you're complicit in the silence and complicit in the inaction of other governments when they are from the People's Party. And then when you don't rule in the state, as is happening to you now in this case, then if it's when the initiatives are unleashed, and everything you haven't done during the time of government they've had occasion, because it's when you start waving the demand flag; the false demand flag, because the good claim comes when you have a good conversation and you are able to seek, to reach agreements with people with whom you theory have a direct line. This is what happened to the railway Atlantic corridor. I want to remember that it was already in 2017 when En Marea first brought this camera into this legislation the initiative to denounce that Galicia was being excluded from the railway Atlantic corridor. And it had been excluded, firstly, by the Government already in the first early design by the Socialist Party, and then by the People's Party. And we had to be the ones who put that exclusion here on the table. Exclusion that was also registered on January 29, 2018 on an initiative that was later debated here in this Chamber in plenary and was rejected by the People's Party. They voted against it! So that vote against lasted, just like the rest of the initiatives relating to the railway Atlantic corridor, while the People's Party ruled in the State. Here are the rest of the strata, we can read them all if you like, but I don't have much time. [[Mr. Villares Naveira shows the House some sheets.]] With regard to the rest of the initiatives that were discussed both in plenary and in committee on this subject, while the People's Party in the State ruled, they were defeated by the majority of the people; as soon as there was a change of government they all started to come in favour. So, we're in the face of a recurring episode, if we don't do anything, of thinking that the rest not only of the opposition but of the Greek society is out of memory, that the sectoral and professional organizations are out of their minds, that have no memory of what happened not so long ago. So it's like you didn't have any responsibility in the current situation, when the truth is, yes. Because the inclusion of Galicia, of Greek connecting sections in the railway Atlantic corridor, is a unanimous demand not only for trade unions, not only for professional organizations, not only for companies, not only for industry, but also for a constant demand that has been made since the opposition, which has been neglected. With regard to the initiative as it is now formulated, we are in favour. But we say it: we are coherent and we are consistent with the same political position after time. And, therefore, we also consider — as it was exposed here — that the presentation made at Powerpoint is a mere joke about how it should be an act of a ruler, especially when it acts in the category of ministry. And we know who prepares the papers for the Ministry is a well-prepared cabinet. It was absolutely unacceptable. So we agree with that, we agree that it is necessary to present an immediate master plan. And that master plan can be done even if the government is in office, because the Ministry is constantly working for this reason alone. We have to go on that line, and it's something that should be done, of course. Secondly, it is also necessary to draw up coherent budgets, a budget project with an intervention also from engineering to be able to present in Brussels on time. Because we're talking about the Connect Europe mechanism, which has some procedures that must also be followed in an appropriate way and with a time frame that must be respected. And with regard to the southern stretch of Vigo, they know that it has a different mechanism of financing, because it's a cross-border frame of these thirty kilometers. You can therefore accommodate a different direct mechanism of Connecting Europe. That would allow even the Spanish Government at this time to do so by simply presenting the information studies. We therefore consider it to be the right initiative at the bottom. However, we regret that this is merely an initiative of opposition; of that which is voted against when the People's Party is ruling in the State and they have a majority here not to disturb those who must be submitted to them, and when they are not governed, because it is when we come with this kind of proposals that we support before and now we support the government who governs them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u131	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u132	I flip! Flip in colors, Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira. [[Laughter]] What a way to come here to say that the time is going on, when here really when the time has passed was when he ruled the People's Party for six years in the Government of the State and when Galicia's exclusion from the Atlantic corridor was approved in 2013! [[Applause]] Why are we talking about? What are we talking about? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yeah, yeah, it's okay, it's okay. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] November 2013, nine priority runners... [[Mr. Fernández Prado speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u133	Mr. Martín, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u134	Calm down, Mr. Martín. [[Mr. Fernández Prado speaks words that are not perceived.]] Would you like to speak as a spokesperson?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u135	Mr. Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u136	You could talk about a spokesperson.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u137	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u138	...he left the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira. Now shut up. Then present an initiative to you, if you wish, later. But now listen. Even if you don't like it, listen! [[Mr. Fernández Prado speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u139	Mr. Martín! [[Mr. Fernández Prado speaks words that are not perceived.]] Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u140	Listen!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u141	Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u142	I know you don't like it, but listen. You have to listen, even if you don't like it!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u143	Tell the truth.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u144	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u145	Nine priority corridors in Europe were approved in November 2013.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u146	Mr. Fernández Prado, I call you by order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u147	He voted in the European Parliament. The People's Party and the Socialist Party voted in favour of excluding Galicia from the nine priority runners. It is true that this came from a proposal by the Socialist Party in the Government of the former State, but you in 2013 kept that proposal and voted in favour of the European Parliament. They couldn't do it, but they voted in favour of excluding Galicia, and so we are now! Why are you talking to us about seven hundred million in a grant call? It is that in the 2014 call there were eleven thousand nine hundred million euros to invest, which were for these other runners. Of course, they went to the European corridors — for the nine — and also to the Mediterranean, of course. That's why Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira says that billions will be invested in the Mediterranean corridor, because it was approved in 2013 that it was. That's why they're investing now. And also in the Atlantic, in the Atlantic but without Galicia, in the Atlantic that connects The Port, that connects Sines, that connects Aveiro, and that leaves the port of Vigo and the port of Coruña excluded. Because here we're not going to go into war if The Crown or Vigo, they have to go in! But they have to compete on an equal footing with the port, which is taking everything. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And this is the responsibility of the policies that have been made for ten years by the governments of the state, the People's Party and the Socialist Party, of course! And the abandonment of the railway in Galicia. Why are we talking about? Do you know how long it will take you to get the Greek goods to the port of Barcelona? Do you know how late they are for the policies of the Socialist Party and the People's Party? Thirty-six hours! That's not competitive. And it's not a receipt either that you in the Climate Change Strategy don't even mention the railway, when it's a fundamental element to improve not only connectivity and competitiveness, but also the sustainability of our country. Therefore, you have full responsibility. Also the Galician Board when in 2010 I proposed to create the German railway unit, and then left that proposal in a drawer. And when in 2012 he evaluated the dismantling of the stations and the lines of this country. They have full responsibility, too, and the abandonment of the freight railway. Because we have in this country a railway that isn't even from the 20th century, it's a 19th century railway, because the plot between Lugo and La Coruña is a plot of the 19th century, and the plot between Ferrol and La Coruña is a plot of the 19th century. And that's the responsibility of the Socialist Party and the People's Party. And let's not say how the line between Ferrol and Ribadius is. So what are we talking about? And now you're talking to us about seven hundred million? Of course, we have to do the master plan, we have to make real projects. But you said it yesterday in Vigo also the president of Ports of State: Europe is going to approve this new phase in 2020, and that is when the projects must be presented. And the projects aren't done. If we don't have government, then there won't be projects by 2020, of course! But this had to be expected long before, also when the People's Party was ruling, and you have so much or more responsibility. And the only project they have, that they have introduced or announced in recent times in the State Government, is a project of a million euros, which is a real hair takeover. A project, you know why? To act on the line between Ferrol and Monforte, to make parking lots, so trains of seven hundred and fifty meters can be parked. That's the only forecast for improvement. I mean, sheet and painting. With what needs to be done to improve the railway network, to double-track, to put on electrification, to put on RTMS and to put on international width, which is what needs to be done! What had to be done since 2010, since 2011, entering the Atlantic corridor in 2013. We don't enter because of the irresponsibility of the Socialist Party and the People's Party. So don't come here to teach us lessons! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u148	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. From the railway point of view Mr. Villares said, the popular classics return, Mozart returns, Chaikovsky returns, Beethoven returns, Bach returns and the Atlantic corridor of the People's Party. Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira, you have already been told that a non-law proposal was adopted at the plenary session on 9 April this year, which was approved unanimously, because you have accepted the additions of other parliamentary groups. And I honestly don't think he'll be able to break that unanimity that we have all the groups of this chamber in defense of what are the interests of Galicia and its inclusion in the Atlantic corridor, as much as they keep trying it with initiatives like this, in which you speak of political leadership, of representativeness within the policies of the state, etc. Of course, the Galician Socialist Party will continue to defend the initiatives that you bring and which are supposed to improve for Galicia. But I also believe that this initiative has certain tents of campaign. You've been on a list of injuries for a few months, including AVE, including AP-9, including the Atlantic corridor; and this, of course, has electoral targets. Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira, the last time we had lunch was yesterday's request for a visit by the Director General of the Galaga Infrastructure Agency to talk about the measures he plans to launch the Government of Greece to reduce the impact on families on the increase in the AP-9 fee. Look, Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira, are you not guilty of the granting of AP-9 to 2048? Who made that extension of a concession that was to end in 2023? Why are we going to have to keep paying fees until 2048? Who decided that? A Government of the People's Party! And now you come here to rip your clothes off by invoking the weight loss and that there are other state highways that in concession plans have ended their concession. Of course they're done! Like I'd have finished AP-9 in four years if you hadn't extended that concession. And you tell us about deviations in favor of not knowing what other parts of the state. Well, yes, we all know that they refer to the Mediterranean; it must be the origin of the Minister of Development. But you didn't protest when, for example, in 2014, the percentage of investment in all the subsidies of the Ministry of Development in Galicia accounted for only 4.72% of the state; neither did they protest when in 2016 it was 4.77%. And I am not defending or distant that there is a priority towards the Mediterranean to the detriment of the Atlantic corridor and its enlargement to the northwest, of course not. But they're consistent!, be consistent and demand the same treatment when they're ruling or not governing, because that's coherence. And that is the coherence that we are going to have in the Socialist Parliamentary Group, because we are going to vote in favour of this initiative even if it calls on a government to act in certain functions. The point is, we all know that in February this document from the Atlantic corridor was introduced, and we already know it's not a project, we know it's not a plan director. But it turns out that the Galician Union never presents a Powerpoint to make the public exhibition of its projects; no, no, that's just what the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party does in the Government of the State. You don't, you launch all sorts of constructive planning documents from the very beginning. As we all know, who we are here, who we are tired of, I get every minute to my email updates from the Infrastructure Plan and the Galician Road Plan, or I don't get enough because there's no such thing. But you have no problem demanding a government to do in five or six months, or in a year, a whole planning of an Atlantic corridor, an infrastructure as large and as complex as this one. By the way, didn't the Galician Union already have a virtually complete project in which its criticisms were supported by the Ministry of Development? So they'll get to know us as well, and they can also think about the Ministry of Development technicians, who I suppose are as solvents as they are from Galician union at least. And, of course, we're talking about processes of a high complexity, both from the point of view of the relationship of the projects themselves and from their processing in front of the European Union. In any case, and for the sake of peace — which I have already told you that we will vote in favour — note that during this year alone and for improvements related to this corridor, the Ministry of Development has called for and assisted works, operations worth EUR 27,700,000. I mean, to be a government in function something must be doing well. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u150	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Group author of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u151	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, it's incredible, you are unable to criticize, is that even in the evidence you are able to question what this government of Mr. Sánchez does. It is not even at the risk that we lose access to European funds for this call that has just been presented, nor are they capable of making a criticism! Home!, I understand that they want to be necessary partners, but, listen: this is Galicia, defend the interests of the Greeks! Is that what we are, gentlemen? [[Applause]] Yes, yes, raise your fist, Mr. Bará. [[Murmurs.]] The fist is lifted! [[Applause]] But you... the question is to blame the People's Party, because you say you approved the exclusion in Galicia in 2013. [[Applause]] No, tell the truth, say that these plots were negotiated in 2009 and 2010, when Mr. Blanco was Minister of Development, when you were supporting Mr. Zapatero's budgets... and they didn't say anything, Mr. Bará! [[Murmurs.]] It's a lie! [[Applause]] Where were they, Mr. Bará. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] And, look, I'm telling you more. Where are they now? Because there has just been a plan that is budgeting EUR 1.5 million per kilometre for the Atlantic corridor but EUR 18 million per kilometre for the Mediterranean corridor. But you, as Mr. Knight says, chiton, chiton! Hey, say something, say something! Of course! [[Strong murmurers.]] Tell the spokesman of En Marea we vote against. No, Mr. Cal, we do not vote against, no, we tabled an amendment. And you know what's going on? —Yes, yes, the spokesperson for the Left Joint Group. You know what's going on? That is why you — Mr Villares had planned it — presented a poorly formulated initiative, because they were comparing the Atlantic corridor with a different legal base that affected Zaragoza. It had nothing to do with, it was poorly formulated, and that's why we tabled an amendment. And because they didn't accept it, because they didn't accept it, we couldn't vote... [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But, look, you can't give us some kind of commitment to the railway in Galicia. If it were for you, we wouldn't have AVE; for the Socialist Party, surely neither, but for you, gentlemen... Home, we're not taught from the Marea Group. As for the Socialist Group, look, Mr. Álvarez, you speak of "classic folk". Do you know what the classics are? Let the Socialist Party and Galicia arrive and give it everywhere. That's the classic, gentlemen, that's the classic! Look, come here and say we won't break up. [[Applause]] You have to have a hard face to come here to say that. We're not going to fracture the unit that's in relation to the Atlantic corridor. But if it's your mayor who's fractured that unit! How can you tell us this? Do you know what's going on? It bothers him that we're betraying this initiative because you guys would want us not to talk about the Atlantic corridor, of course! It's just that what you don't want is for us to tell this, Mr. Álvarez, you don't want this to happen to people. What you don't want is that we say they presented just a month ago, or month and peak, a plan where Vigo didn't appear, where the northwestern area didn't appear in the Atlantic corridor. That's what you don't want. But, of course, you presented that, and now you say, it wasn't a plan. No, no!, you in the headlines said: Mr. Abalos presents the plan director of the Atlantic corridor. It was a master plan where no southern connection appeared, where no PLSAN appeared, where no port connections appeared. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u152	About the amendment, about the amendment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u153	And you said chitton! But what are we talking about?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u154	About the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u155	Here, ladies and gentlemen, and I'm done, Mr. President, the other day in a forum...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u156	About the amendment, about the amendment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u157	I'm done. In a forum, the government delegate said there was a plan. It must be a ghost plan because no one knows it. And that's what we ask, to elaborate, to present it. And you know why? Because, look, this is fundamental to improving the connectivity, logistics, mobility and competitiveness of our companies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u158	About the amendment, do you accept it or not?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u159	And about the amendment I have to tell you that we do not accept it because it has nothing to do with what we are debating, nothing to do with it, Mr. Cal, nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u160	Thanks, that's it, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u161	Besides, it's not even the competence of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u162	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira, thank you. Let's turn to the non-legislative proposal of the Block Parliamentary Group... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Calm down! Please, we're not a school! A little quiet, come on! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't hear that. One says they call, another says they don't call... I don't know if they call or don't call. What they have is that they didn't call anything. Please, let's go to a serious debate! [[Murmurs.]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia regarding the decision to suspend the pediatric guards and the Parish service at the Comarcal Hospital in Verín
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u163	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u164	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u165	Thank you very much. Good morning. Shortening women's and children's rights is violence. Less speeches and more resources. "Nobody tells us where to stand. Poison doesn't close." [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are some of the slogans that a thousand neighbors and neighbors of Verín and their neighborhoods ran yesterday at the doors of this Parliament. They are demands full of reason, of justice, words that still echo with strength today, with strength that can defend something as essential as the right to health regardless of where you live or where you are born. The reopening of the delivery room and the return of pediatric emergencies to the Verín hospital are the demands they have on their feet of war to a whole territory that is not willing to stand by watching Mr. Feijó's government cut them off services that are essential basic services, the guarantee that they may have the right to health, and that it does so, in addition, by violating the right to women and children's health. And I want to ask you a question today, and especially to the ladies and gentlemen of the popular bench. Which one of you would choose to give birth 80 kilometers away and can do it five minutes from your house? Which one of you would choose to have your son and daughter's pediatrician at one hour, if you could have him at the door of your house? Is it really so hard to understand that a woman doesn't want to risk giving birth to an ambulance in the middle of the road? Is it so hard to understand that a father, a mother, would like to have a pediatrician as close as possible to meet an emergency? Well, ladies and gentlemen, that's exactly what the neighbors and neighbors of Verín are claiming when they say that the birthplace and pediatric emergencies must be reopened in this hospital. And in the Galician Nationalist Block we're on their side because they're right and because they're right. That's why today we bring a non-law proposal which is also a commitment. This non-law proposal is a commitment to people and their right to health, because when it comes to the right to quality public health, you can't take a step back, which is what you're doing. It is also a commitment to women and children, who have the right to receive medical attention as close as possible to their place of residence, as they had until Mr. Feijóo decided to do what is best for him, which he has done for these ten years: cut, cut and cut. This non-law proposal is also a commitment to rural people, because we have a moral obligation to work so that the neighbours and neighbours of rural and small towns have the same rights and services as those of cities. And finally, this non-law proposal is also an opportunity for the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party to rectify, an opportunity for the People's Party and Feijóo to rectify by supporting this proposal from the BNG so that Verín and Comarca will recover the health services they never, never, should have lost: the delivery room and the pediatric hospitals. Today we ask them to rectify, to put aside the parties, to stand by the people, to listen to what hundreds of neighbors and neighbors asked for at the doors of this Parliament, but they are also asking every day with that prison that follows in the hospital. And we ask them to put aside the prepotence, sovereignty, propaganda and lies, and to stand aside for women's and children's rights. For once, gentlemen, do the right thing and stop justifying the unjustifiable with an argumentary that we already see they have to go rectification on the march the base of hiding behind the professionals. You first mentioned that it was better to give priority to the quality of comfort, as if having health services nearby was a whim of women, parents and mothers. Then they claimed that the paritory had to be abolished because, as there were few births, the professionals lost expertise. They had this argument until the professionals themselves had to plant their faces because they were insulting their capacity. Ladies and gentlemen, with 3,000 deliveries in a hospital and without any problems, how could they use this type of argument? [[Applause]] They also sought as an excuse the decline in the number of births claiming that the ratio established by the World Health Organization was not met. And you know perfectly well that those ratios have never been fulfilled. And more than that, those ratios don't meet any of the comarcial hospitals that are currently running and in the delivery hospitals. So why are they closing the Parish? Or do we, ladies and gentlemen, have to understand that behind this justification, behind this beginning in Verín, will all the Parisians in the comarcas hospitals, in the Navy, in the Salnes, in Monforte? What do we have to understand, gentlemen? What we're seeing is that the whole argumentary that the People's Party and the Government of the Union used to justify this decision was nothing more than a sum of inconsistencies; inconsistencies which, by the way, also follow what the President of the Union has done in recent days. Last Thursday he said, after the Board of Trustees, that they are willing to reconsider the matter if the professionals so advise. Again we have the Feijóo hiding behind the professionals when we know that this was a health policy decision that marked this government. Or they say they're willing to reopen the birthplace under the responsibility of women. How can it be so frivolous and incompetent a president of the board on a subject that has a relevance to these characteristics? [[Applause]] And today they play again hiding out telling us that the problem is that there are no pediatricians. This, first, leads me to a reflection. We have a government that assumes management and that it is unable to hire a pediatrician. Well, you guys! They'd have to resign each and every one of them, because it's the greatest sign of incompetence. [[Applause]] But you've created the health areas to be able to mobilize staff, in the health area of Ourense there are pediatricians, and what you're doing is instead of mobilising pediatricians, mobilizing pregnant women and seeing if they're lucky and not stopping on the road. Instead of mobilising pediatricians, children and sick children are mobilized. It's a new excuse to justify a political decision. But, ladies and gentlemen, this must certainly be rectified and we also need to make a clear decision in this Parliament. And if the People's Party and Feijóo are in favour of reopening the Parish, I am sure they will vote for this initiative today, because if we all agree to that end, how is it not going to be approved unanimously? And I didn't want to, ladies and gentlemen, to end this intervention without making a reference to some facts that seem very serious to us, in reference to the last delivery that took place at the Summer Hospital, a delivery that was possible thanks to the responsible professionals, among them the chief gynaecologist and the midwife. They made a decision — you have to say — to honor them, because they avoided the risk of a pregnant woman giving birth in an ambulance in the middle of the road to Ourense. Think for a moment and put yourself in place of the facts. A woman arrived at the Verín Hospital, where until a month ago she had a delivery room that would allow her to give birth without problems. The chief gynaecologist and the midwife conclude that childbirth is so imminent that there are only two options: either reopening the closed service or risking this woman's having to give birth in an ambulance. They bet on the safety of women and children, as they couldn't be otherwise, and they ask the Ourense Hospital to send a pediatrician. And to achieve it, ladies and gentlemen, they have to go to trial. Finally, the birth occurs, which concludes without any problem either for the mother or for the child. Five minutes after this birth the newborn is literally torn from the mother's arms, as the father declared in the media.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u166	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u167	He's moved without that mother in an ambulance to Ourense, in an act that the Spanish Association of Perinatal Psychology itself has qualified as violence against women. That's what the president of the Association of Perinatal Psychology himself says. [[Applause]] Hours later she's transferred to her mother, who stays in the corridors of Ourense Hospital two hours sitting in a chair, after she's dizzy and after she's hemorrhage. Of course, anyone with a minimum of sensitivity would skip the alarms. Not because we say so in this Parliament but because it happened.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u168	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u169	And you get irritable because we're here describing reality. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, please, a little sensitivity. Imagine you're that woman.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u170	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u171	To me, of course, I would fall my soul to my feet. And if I don't want it for myself, I don't want it for any woman in this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u172	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u173	We're in front of facts that are very serious.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u174	He's finished his time, he's got another intervention later, Mrs. Pontón. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Strong murmurers.]] Your time is up. That's it. It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u175	What's sad is that we don't adjust to the times. Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. Time's up. You've got time written there. For the Galician People's Group, Mr. Núñez Centeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u176	I'd like to know what information you're handling, Mrs. Pontón, about that delivery. I don't have any clinical information, and if I had it I couldn't use it for data protection. I really don't know how you dare to act as a prosecutor against a professional and a lawyer from other professionals. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u177	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u178	And I, of course, will demand that an investigation be opened so that any of the professionals who intervened assume their responsibilities, of all those who intervened. We, ladies, keep... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. President, may I speak?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u179	Mrs. Santos, call her in order. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'll call her in order. Listen to who's using the word. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] All of you! I don't think he's susceptible to that. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u180	Thank you, President. We reiterate and maintain the amendment we tabled yesterday's motion. And we can keep insisting on the fallacy. No clipping, not an economic cut. No privatization. Paediatric emergencies don't disappear because there were no pediatric emergencies because the two-party government ended up with the last pediatrician there. There's probably the same problems as there is now, but it's not worth it, that's not worth it... No, no, you can't talk about that. There are no requests for optional squares to be convened, indefinite interim squares. No requests. There's a future plan for the Verín Hospital. Obviously, we can take planning mistakes in the past in the adjudication of squares, but you forget the economic crisis. And you forget that in all autonomous communities there's exactly the same problem, it's not a problem of planning in Galicia. And all that's happened. We now want to be future solutions and collaboration for future solutions. But it's very easy to criticize. To give solutions is very difficult, to criticize is absolutely easy. That's left-wing electoralism, pure and hard electoralism and a degree of very serious irresponsibility. To the Government of the People's Party, ladies and gentlemen, I hope you will not be accused of electoralism for this measure. I think it is impossible to charge the People's Party with electoralism in this measure, which is a measure based on criteria of safety and quality. Probably the Secretary General of the Socialist Party, so he spoke in an interview and today, and even some extra-parliamentary group that comes out in the press today, but you can accuse them of irresponsibility by saying that they will open the parity in the same conditions as we are now, without pediatricians. I think that's absolutely irresponsible. But, look, in Líria, Valencia, a hospital that didn't carry maternity was opened in March 2015 and the blame was for the PP. You've all been in government since March 2015 and the L liria hospital is still out of maternity after promising that they're going to put out maternity. I remember Carballo's bus, ladies and gentlemen, when you were going to win the election. And they won the elections — sorry, they lost but ruled — and there it was said that the toll would disappear. I paid the toll every year of my work in Carballo, and by the way, those years were the ones that were the ones that were the busiest. Promise is very easy, fulfilling is much more difficult. The mayor of Verín offers free housing for pediatricians. I think it's a compliment. It's not new, it's offered in Catalonia, we've already commented on it, but it's a possibility. It looks good to me. The Matronas Association is looking for pediatricians, I think. In Spain, all offers are published either by professional schools or by associations. And abroad you have to remember that you have to approve the titles, which are not worth any title. The Atlantic Axis and other collectives propose extending the euro region with Keys. This was proposed by counsellor Pilar Farjas — a prestigious gynecologist these days in the press — and some PSOE and some member of the Bloc — ha hemerotheca — opposed this measure, ladies. What's good for now wasn't worth it before. And the IGC proposes traveling doctors, travel pediatricians, to the hospital. That is why the amendment of the Health Act was approved, to give legal coverage to this kind of displacement, and they voted against it. And now it turns out that the union, the IGC, says yes. I wonder what the opposition groups would say if we reopened the paritories in these conditions and something happens to some mother or child. What we should hear in this Chamber, gentlemen! I ask them to support the amendment of the People's Party and that we take steps between all groups and the central government to solve the serious problem of pediatrics. Look, ladies and gentlemen, I, as a citizen, understand people's protests. They've got to get along the way they were, I understand. I, as a political representative, as a local spokesman for a party that I went, understand the complaints of mayors and concelers of my party, because people are going to complain to them. But neither citizens nor political representatives are health management experts or have anything to know about health management. But as a medical professional, I am proud of my government and its president, because they take measures based on safety and quality. We risk votes, we risk votes, but first we take, here, the security and quality of the care of mothers and children. [[Applause]] And I also worry, as a medical professional, that the alleged alternative to this government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u181	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u182	...is led by politicians who have shown that they would put their electoral interests forward before...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u183	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u184	It's over, Mr. President. Look, ladies and gentlemen, your speeches boost your credibility, and not only with doctors, who no longer have it, but in the short term they will also lose credibility with citizenship.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u185	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u186	You said the president...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u187	Your time is up, Mr. Centeno. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Núñez Centeno utters words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Your time is up, Mr. Centeno. The Joint Group has the floor to Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u188	No, we don't accuse them of electoralism. We accuse them of incompetence. I've seen what proves that Feijóo will not continue to rule because he is inhibited from ruling. And I saw fortunately, fortunately, it will be the end of his government. First of all, it is forbidden to govern because it was concealed in a technical report — which, by the way, we do not know it — to close the wall. He said it was about the number of births and the loss of professional expertise. It was a false reason, because the ratio of births that is recommended is to open maternity, not to close those that are in scattered places. Because the recommendations also indicate that in those most scattered places, we also need to take care of the distance. Well, first that was the reason. In just one week, the service is closed without dialogue. So the technical reason for it was that what is evidenced is that the problem was the inability to hire pediatricians in Verín. But yesterday, still yesterday, the reason has become that, if you want to open the birthplace in Verín, we'll have to be the women who assume responsibility for birthing in a public hospital. It's the policy of "there they are!" Mr de Feijóo, as he does with the recommendations of the Council of Europe with regard to Greek. It's giving up ruling. Therefore, the coherent one would be to resign and cease Sergas' high office, since the question is technical. But the question is not merely technical. And with all this process, what he does is he insults the professionals. Yesterday, with this question of women stopping in Vienna under their responsibility, it was as if there were no other professionals. And it's always forgotten that the midwives are the reference professionals — married and married — in the attention of normal delivery, that the service worked well, and there was a ratio — indeed recommended by international organizations — of a mistress for each woman, who could follow up. The service, as has already been exposed here, had no problems, since these professionals are continually updated and the complicated deliveries were already derived from Ourense. And now Feijóo continues to put responsibility on these Verín professionals. Why? Because they still lack a clear written protocol. There was another delivery yesterday too in a situation of stress, because women were used to going to birth in Verín. A woman breaks water and goes under stress to Ourense. These are situations of tension we've already warned of. They unload their responsibilities, and it was tremendous what happened to that booted baby from the mother's arms. Because the recommendations indicate that after a normal delivery, a healthy baby has to be an hour — and if possible, two — by doing the skin. Well, I'm sorry that a woman has to live -- whatever psychological state she is in after birth -- an unnecessary situation, because it's not a risk delivery, a risk baby -- something that doesn't forget about life because it's a single moment -- and that she has to live through a management issue, not a health issue. [[Murmurs.]] Health processes do not apply to ether but to people. This is what leads to dehumanization. Two hours waiting in that chair won't forget that woman in her life. That's what we have to avoid. Yesterday, people mobilized, "Today's Verín, it can be you." What is at stake is health in rural areas, quality services in rural areas. That's what's at stake, that idea that, under the responsibility of women, you have to give birth to a public hospital in the countryside. None of the comarcas reaches the 600-year-old births ratio. And if the reason is the pediatricians, in fact, there must be pediatricians in Verín. We do not deny that, but there are solutions: to publish the recruitment lists, to effect public job offers and, however, to make the same system in the boat. Yesterday they told us it wasn't a matter of budgets. Yes, it is. It's to raise funds for the women we live in rural areas to have the same rights as those who live in any city. Moreover, they can increase the surplus given to professionals working in comarcas hospitals like in Verín, because at present the points that work in Verín are tiny considering that it is now necessary in our country to make a positive discrimination in order to maintain services in rural areas. It's not a technical matter, it's a model question. Women have the same right to give birth in Verín, in Monforte, in Valdeorras as in Ourense. And in the end Ourenses will also have the right to be born in Ourense and not in Vigo, as it seems to be where they want to derive everything.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u189	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez Verao. For the Joint Left Group, Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u190	Thank you, President. We will, of course, support all the initiatives and continue to insist, as much as it bothers them, on continuing to bring this issue up until they rectify this decision. Because they're going to have to correct by citizen pressure and because we're in the election year, of course they're going to correct. Or I want to think they'll do it. And then they should stop making the ridiculous, they should stop lying and they should stop insulting all women and also all professionals. Yes, with the statements they make, they insult all women, they insult all the people who live in rural areas and they insult professionals as well. They said, they started talking about comforts. It's not a comfort, it's a right. They kept talking about the expertise of the professionals, which we seem to forget. They apologize for these intolerable statements. A government can't make these statements insulting workers who do exceptional work and say that there's a lack of expertise. They're still in time to apologize for these statements, because they're not, at any time, admissible. Now they also speak of the responsibility of women. The president of the government doesn't want to rule and he wants to place all responsibility on women. And, by the way, they also make the responsible for this disaster, the responsible for the alleged good management in public health, which, in addition to this very useless management, what he did was make statements like a delivery is not an infarction. The councilman who closes the hemodynamics in the same province does it. I don't know, then I don't know what it will be. He says that a delivery is a long process, at best it takes three or four hours, and that there is a displacement process. He must have lived many childbirths but is very ill-informed. You always say there's no information. They're going to talk to any service, to any mistress, to explain to them that delivery work, delivery processes, are quite different. They're insulting all women with these kinds of statements. They don't have a minimum of empathy. He came here today to talk about security. And when you talked about the last process is that, look -- Mrs. Pontón said it, it's in all the media, and it's in all the media because the father and mother said it. The process has been reported by them, it's no access to any clinical history. It's rather regrettable that he comes here saying this when he's in all the media, when it's a reality they've lived. And you, instead of feeling a minimum of empathy, of saying "we're wrong" and of apologizing to this mother and this father, instead of saying "we're wrong," no, you keep insisting over and over and over again and keep lying, you keep looking for more absurd arguments. I don't know what's going to be the next argument we've got to hear. And, look, it's not a coincidence, because the closure of the pediatric emergency service and the closure of the parish home are just one more link. How many years has Verín's neighborhood been denounced the progressive dismantling of this hospital? What's the matter is that this went wrong to them, but their plan isn't new now. They've been dismantling the Verin Hospital for many years, and they've been dismantling our public health for many years. The president said what an alternative we have from the opposition. Well, look, the alternative is not to privatize, not to increasingly derive money from private and not to exploit professionals, because in health there are many workers who are emigration. I have many companions who are outside the country. Then there will be no nurses. How professional they won't be missing when they're hiring professional for days and hours loose! What kind of management and public procurement is it? Of course, it seems that there are no professionals because people shouldn't want to work. No, look, it's just that they have inexorable operating conditions in many cases. The so-called good managers, the truth is, they're not very good at it. And wanting to be around where you live, not risking to be in a car, to be in a suit, it's not a matter of comfort, nor should it be an election. It's a right, a right to our health. And as such, the Government must defend women's rights, because sexual and reproductive rights are internationally recognized rights. Obsterical violence exists. And decisions like these are promoting violence. Yes, it's violence that a woman has to see separate from her son by a political decision, not health. It's a lie, they stop hiding in professionals, it's totally a lie. They also listen to the professionals in Vienna, who listen so much. They listen to the gynaecologists, the drivers of Verín, the ship of Valdeorras and many other comarcas hospitals. Because they lied using the number of births, when they know perfectly the relationship with other comarcial hospitals. Or, if that went well, would the next one be Salnes, or could the next be Valdeorras' boat? What's your plan? Mr. Félix Ruibal has already said it very clearly: let us all give birth to Vigo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u191	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u192	That's the great manager's plan. Please, a minimum of empathy. Rectify immediately and stop making fun of it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u193	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quinteiro. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u194	Thank you, President. Good morning. The decision to close the Paritory of Verín is a purely political, only political decision. You can have several reports, and there are a few questions, which were made clear to President Feijóo this morning, that the truth is hard to hear. Because sometimes you have appreciation for the institution, even the institution of the presidency. At the last plenary, he said here that they had signed this famous document to all pediatricians and gynaecologists in the Ourense health area. You're lying! You're lying! Today you said that the CHUOU ones. There's no problem recognizing that he's been wrong, but it seems to cost him a lot. He also said that all scientific societies supported him. He lied, because the president of the Galician Society of Xynecology and Obstetrics has already left saying that no one asked them. I'm sorry, if you don't mind, we're going to give the opinion to the others too, because they're doing just like this in Verín, who just want to hear an opinion. [[Murmurs.]] He literally told the media -- he's there to read -- that they didn't consult him. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What's the reality at the end? That they closed the birthplace of Verín without asking anyone who had worked in Verín. And so said it sounds a little strange, because what are they doing? Let's make it clear: they're fueling a confrontation between professionals. And that goes quite against the health system. They're fueling a confrontation between professionals within the health area. Pretty much they're feeding her, by the way, because, when they say for a month they asked everyone, and some of them didn't ask them, you're also causing a problem of facing professionals. And then there's a runaway forward. First it was a problem of the number of births — speaking of security, of life — but it soon became a problem of staff. Because if with two more pediatricians you can reopen by keeping the number of births, then it wasn't the number of births, then it wasn't the number of births — that was the argument Mr. Feijó gave here, eh! the number of births-- In case this is what the professionals do, they've already come forward that it's going to be under the mother's responsibility. Sorry! They're going to give you the birthplace, the keys, wash your hands, put on the epidural, have a scalpel there... look, it's a public system and it has to defend and protect the people you have to care for! Like under your responsibility? See if it's gonna be if Mr. Feijóo doesn't even believe his own arguments and maybe someone can give up there. But they also appeal to a question that is surprising. There's a pediatrician problem. And what is the work -- we asked ourselves -- of a government? See a problem and accept it, lower your ears, turn around and leave or is it to solve it? Because it'll be solved. If you have a pediatrician problem, solve it. By the way, they've ruled this autonomous community for eleven years. If there's a pediatrician problem, it's yours. But let's go to something else. Today Mr. Feijóo said that it is 12% the data of pediatricians who are not covered in Galicia. You're lying! That's in primary care, but we're talking about hospitals. In primary care! By the way, are we under the Spanish average? Yes! And then I quote the comparison with Cantabria, with Aragon... let's do it well. Is there a problem in the Spanish media? Yes, especially on the islands, Balearic Islands and Canary Islands. Don't worry, there's government for everyone there. Nationalists, socialists, populars... on the islands there's a reason there's a cover issue. You know why there's a problem in the Spanish media? For Madrid, for Murcia. Because 88% of primary schoolchildren are covered here, but in Cantabria, 96%; in Asturias, almost 99%; in Rioxa, with a government of the People's Party, there is full coverage; in Castile and León, 92%. There are communities that have a lot of pediatricians. By the way, curiously those who are more attached to us have many more Greek pediatricians than we do. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Why? Because the conditions that you offer here to professionals are regrettable. Of course, what did they expect when they expelled professionals? That we had them the same way? What did they expect when there was a problem of supply and demand? It's a matter of market. If there are few pediatricians and we offer them the worst conditions in all of Spain, they leave. They offer good conditions, see if we have pediatricians! [[Applause]] The absolute resignation to rule is amazing. If there's a problem, it's yours. Resolve and do not go to the data that are falsified.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u195	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u196	By the way, they do not say that this of professional rotation is what they wanted to resolve with the reform of the Health Act, because, as was said well on another occasion — although it is equally true — the reform of the Health Act did not play, because Verín was already part of the health area of Ourense. You decide what you want, and then...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. Time's up. Mr. Torrado, your time is up, thank you very much. [[Applause]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, you have the word for Mrs. Pontón Modelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u198	Well, first of all, I would like to thank the groups, both the Mixed and the Common Left, and the Socialist Group, for the support — which was obvious — for this initiative. And if I'd like to nuance some questions that the spokesperson for the People's Party said here. The first is that, of course, when you think that the whole debate is reduced to votes, you're very wrong. This isn't about votes, this is about women's rights, children's rights, which is what's at risk at the Verín Hospital right now. [[Applause]] Stop ignoring the people who are claiming that there is a need to restore the Parish because it seems to me that there were mayors and mayors of the BNG, the PSOE and also the People's Party. What's the matter, they just move because they're afraid their votes will fall? Or are they defending people's rights and the right of an area not to be dismantled by their public health? Of course, I think this is the first thing that had to be clarified. The second is that the PP is already on an argumentative level of delirium, because if the accusation that they make us is that the block that governs in Valencia is not able to open a parity, frankly, is that you are demonstrating... — of course, the Block governs in Valencia — is that you are demonstrating the level of argumentative with which they face such an important issue for a region, for the future of a country. [[Murmurs.]] We're talking about rights, rights of women, children and children. And then they get angry because we report serious situations. It's just, look, the father himself reported to the media what happened last week in Verín. He said that everything was going very well, that they got there, that it was very dilated, that they decided, as everything was going well, to give up there. He said, "It was all right. It was necessary for a pediatrician to move from Ourense to Verín. He came later. They didn't leave us ten minutes. We put the child in the mother's chest, I was trying to take the chest, and they took it away. We asked her to leave him with her mother for two hours, which was what her mother was going to be watching, but she told us no. The explanation given by the pediatrician was that he had to document it in Ourense. As for the mother, she was transferred to the gynecological emergencies of the CHUOU at about nine and a half o'clock in the morning. The woman who had received stitches was two hours in an old wheelchair in the hallway — signal her partner. He didn't say anything until he started to get dizzy. We didn't have room until noon and the problem is that now it looks like the child doesn't want to take the chest. What can happen is a real aberration — signal the young man —." This is what a family is reporting, and you're scandalizing yourself here because we repeat those words. They should scandalize these facts and, of course, open an investigation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u199	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u200	Look, promise isn't easy, it's easy to cut, which is what the People's Party is doing. And I've been doing it in Verin in recent times. If there are no pediatricians, it's because of their precarious policy. And finally, Mr President, with a question, if you don't mind, which I think is relevant to the debate itself.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u201	The amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u202	Yes, on the amendment and on the vote, if possible, because there are regulatory issues that we also want to explain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u203	Yeah, please hurry up, 'cause time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u204	If the People's Party agrees that the Parish should be opened, it would vote in favour of the initiative. We accept this amendment as adding a single vote. Do you agree that we have to open it? Let's vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u205	All right. It's already clear, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u206	Secondly, the Rules of Procedure provide that two groups of the House may request a secret ballot. All opposition groups are calling for this GNP to be voted in secret ballots in favour of being able to vote in conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u207	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. I understand that I accept the amendment if it is voted together as added. Okay. You also say that there are more groups that call for the vote... but the groups will have to say it. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Do you agree? Yes, very well. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'll have to confirm it. Do you agree or not? Yes, thank you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, Mr. Sánchez, thank you for the confirmation. We moved on to the next non-law proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela and da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in the field of mental health
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u208	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. To formulate the non-law proposition Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u209	Thank you, President. Let me today — because we were teenagers, we knew that Extremoduro was withdrawn — quote Robe Iniesta quoting Ortega Palomares: "They piss me off those who have no doubts and those who cling to their ideals over those of anyone." "Anyone's," yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, sometimes there's a lot of dyslexia in politics -- you know -- sometimes. If you're on the left, I'm so glad. It's a good contribution. Mental health. Let me begin by giving a data: there are 98 clinical psychologists in Sergas to approximately 2,700,000 Greeks. And this gives an approximate calculation of 3.7 per 100,000. In all the ratios that professionals value — professionals remember that health decisions are made by professionals — professionals say that they have to have a standard of 4.3, which would mean they have to automatically hire about 20 professionals in clinical psychology for Sergas. If the Government of the Union decides that its health policy will only be decided by professionals — which may be a criterion — we assume that the initiative will not only be approved, but that it would be the least, but taken the measure, which is the important one. We will see, by adopting this initiative or not, whether it is worth all the opinions of the professionals or only those that are at some point of interest — which, in addition, denigrates the professionals who issue them quite a bit. It has to see this claim of data because it shows the need to deal with whether we really want a mental health model with more psychologists — especially clinical psychologists — or we don't want a mental health model with so many psychologists and we want it further, and if we want it — we recognize the reality — in the situation in which we are now. What's the real situation? Mental health is always said — not unusually, but as an easy comment — that it is the little sister of the rest of health, because it is probably of services with less attention in terms of health policy. In recent times it is true that you have had a lot of media attention — you have to recognize it, and that also contributes to improving services — but health policies have always had it as a reduced service, as a little sister. And within mental health -- the little sister of health -- psychologists also feel -- so I speak in third person -- like the little brothers of the service. Why? Because there is an imbalance with other professionals, in particular — say — the psychiatrists, who are indispensable in the system and with which there is a imbalance. So there's an imbalance in the care model. What we're thinking is that mental health units in Galicia have a deficit of psychologists and psychologists. We have less than we need, tell him the data. And so — and following these criteria that the data govern — should be increased by now. But in addition, we have to take into account that it's the only specialty that has no own service, which doesn't mean that they want to stop working in mental health units, but we have to work multidisciplinaryly. And we must also be aware that, if there is not enough psychologists and psychologists, we cannot implant within the mental health model the presence of greater numbers, or their weight, of more psychological cutting therapies. And so we'll shape another model. And that's the third point. We have the data on human resources, the relevance to them and the model. Why are we talking about changing the model? We have an excessively medicalized mental health model — especially pharmacological — in terms of medicine. The increase — very high — of the consumption of pharmacological therapies in mental health is probably excessive — at the trial of some specialists — in recent years. It is not only an effect of Galicia, of course, it is an effect of Spain; and not only of Spain — although there are more prolific countries, and Spain is one of them. But in any case it's an excessively "pharmacological" model, if this word exists. And we argue that the mental health model, as many psychiatrists have argued in recent times, must have a more therapeutic and less pharmacology component. Why? Because we'll probably contribute to a much more solid approach to the results of therapies. We'll probably have the ability to deliver more consolidated results over time. And also because they're better greeted by people who pass through these services. Normally — to explain it more easily — let's say that the pill offers a more circumstantial solution and more structural therapy. In that sense, citizens also feel more committed to solving the problem. So we think we have to bet on that model. We need more resources for that, yes. And in addition, there is some transformation of the model that we have proposed — it is not the first time it is being proposed in this Parliament — we are not even the only group that proposes it, or much less, but if we trust this idea, which is the incorporation of psychologists and psychologists into primary care. The primary care model — failed the People's Party model and opened the possibility of the need for a new model — must, from our point of view and from all professionals who are telling the Government of the Union — all those who consult in different groups of debates, all of them — go to a different situation. The current situation needs to be changed. Let's hope they listen to them, too. Everyone talks about the need to incorporate many different professionals, multidisciplinary. This would implement — among others — social workers, speech and psychologists and psychologists in primary care. There is a high percentage -- the studies speak of several percentages -- but, making a sort of average, we can say that about 1 out of every 3 problems that exist in primary care -- probably more, according to some interpretations -- could have a good part of the psychological component. And, therefore, within primary care we would contribute to reducing the saturation of medical professionals so that they can derive from the most specific specialist, who is the psychologist or psychologist. This would help to give a better solution to the problem, more efficient, and also to free up time for medical, optional and optional professionals. Interestingly, in order for medical professionals to have more time, it would not only require more professional medicine — that too — but also have others who can extract the work that medical professionals themselves do. Because in the end they end up being a little Swiss knife and they have to have resources for everything, but they often stop them from doing their more specific work. Because having psychologists and psychologists in primary care we could get this. Over the past few years — and when I talk about the last few years, I'm talking about the same thing as ten or fifteen years ago — psychology has seen the channel of access to the public system being narrowed, and as there was much more demand for quality training — which is good, there was an initial tension, as is normal, but change should be positive. There has been a lot more demand not only in the level of training but in the specialization of professionals. And that actually contributes to the improvement of the system, but then they don't take advantage of it. We make them more trained and we make them more specialized so they're ready for the public system, but when they do they're not hired. So what we're doing -- that's not taking the time, because training is never taking the time -- is oriented to a profile and telling them that the system needs them so that it won't hire them. And so it doesn't make much sense to set such demanding criteria of access — which are good — if we don't take advantage of them, it doesn't make sense to do so if we're not going to take advantage of them. So we defend that model change. And for that model change, we're looking at an increase in resources and the incorporation of psychology into primary care. We understand that this model change must come in order to give greater relevance to mental health care, and it must inevitably come up with reality, because in the end we — we are concrete — many of the realities of the system — not all — have to do with increasing resources. So we understand that this is a proposal that needs a more global vision, but we believe that we should start here, by making a specific proposal for professionals who must join the system to match the ratios that professionals say we have to have. I remind you that professionals say you have to have 4.3 per 100,000. We've got less. So you have to incorporate 20, and since you pay so much attention to professionals and govern professionals, you take care of them and hire 20 already. They approve that part and do it, which is the important thing. And secondly, because in that model change we think we need to focus on that demand, so it can be debated continuously. We look forward to the positive position of the groups, of course — for this we present the initiative — but we also hope that the possibility of the debate will give some light on where we can build and increase the relevance of mental health, which for everyone is certainly of greater importance than the system is giving it right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u210	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u211	Well, first of all, I'm going to point out that we're going to support the non-law proposal because we agree with that idea of a mental health model that brings about that importance of psychology, a less pharmacological model, and the need for planning and an integral plan. We're going to try to analyze different aspects in the time he gave. Starting with the situation of mental health in the country, which the initiative itself crumbles in its explanatory statement, we are above average in mental health disorders, which increased during the crisis. And it's just that, in addition, this is a matter of gender, because women double the prevalence of all mental health problems. There is a high rate of antidepressants consumption — 1 in 10 people — and a high rate of tranquilizers and hypnodependants consumption, 15%. This is also related to that need of more psychologists and clinical psychologists. But besides that high suicide rate, there's a worrying fact that almost half of people with severe mental disorder and 3 out of 4 with moderate intensity did not come to primary or specialized care. There's a problem with access to resources. And we also find it important to highlight, as the initiative points out, this obvious relationship between socio-economic deterioration and the increase in mental disorders, as the WHO itself has warned. So here we also have to talk about that the work precariousness in the country, the high dependency rate and, consequently, the high rate of caregivers, along with the lack of public resources, also affect these mental health problems. Because the number of hours devoted to caring for dependent people is a factor that increases this. And I also put this in relation to the higher prevalence of disorders in women's cases. Secondly, we have to talk about the absence of planning, because we've had a decade without strategic planning. Only this mental health plan is set in motion for next year. It was late in the publication of the German suicide prevention plan — because in 2009 the plan was decided to suspend. We need planning for the system to be well equipped. As for the staff, since the deficit is evident, the number of 98 psychologists in Sergas is below the recommendation and this results in waiting lists. It's a constant that mental health services are saturated and that the usual practice is the delay of appointments, long waits and the famous "we'll call it." And this is a factor that increases precisely the medicalization of processes, processes that can be addressed from a perspective of integral psychological care because they start by simply addressing from the psychiatric perspective because there is a waiting list. The work of psychologists and psychologists is essential. And in this regard, the Official College of Psychology in Galicia regrets that in Commission 5th — I think it was one I did not attend — that Sergas had stated that it would be psychiatry who would have competence in the diagnosis of mental health, which is contrary to legislation itself. Missing, therefore, personnel, lack resources. And we also wanted to stop in the situation of childhood because we also lack psychological care resources for childhood and youth. There is also a clear discompensation in our country about the state that the mental problems in childhood have increased while being reduced in the rest of the state. There's a problem of mental health care for children that we have to address. And it also seems to us that an aid to address all these problems is the analysis of the provision of psychologists and psychologists in primary care, because it is this first contact with both health problems in general and the possibility of detecting early mental problems. And here we also take advantage of this study to implement psychological care in primary care to point out that we should also study how this attention is given to victims of gender-based violence, since it is something contemplated by the Greek law itself, psychological assistance to victims in primary care; taking into account, that is, yes, that there is already specialized psychological care. But we have to take advantage of this study for the implementation of psychological care in primary care to also analyze the attention of victims of gender-based violence. In short, we support the non-law proposal, which would result in an improvement in the mental health of citizenship as it makes available a resource, which is psychological care, which reduces that dependence on pharmacology.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u212	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u213	Good morning. We continue with the debate on this initiative, while it seems that the People's Party is evacuating consultations with the Indonesian PP to see what to do in the vote on the Vienna Parish. [[Murmurs.]] Well, indeed, mental health remains the great forgotten by the People's Party and the great absence year after year in budgets. And it was not because you did not claim in this Parliament a correction, it was not because you did not claim in this Parliament that the Government of the People's Party, on the part of the People's Party, had given you the precise attention given to the truly alarming situation. In this Parliament we call for the inclusion of the group of psychologists and psychologists in the working groups to develop the new primary care model in which the People's Party is embarking. And it was voted against, they didn't think it was necessary for these professionals to be on that team. We request the inclusion of psychologists and psychologists in multidisciplinary primary care teams. It is very necessary because, according to the collectives of psychologists and psychologists themselves, one of the main motivations for consultation in health centres — one in three — is related to mental health issues. With which it would be of great help to the existence of these and these professionals in primary care to improve the training of professionals in the field of primary care, in the knowledge and recognition of the risk factors of mental disorder and also in the treatment of the pathologies prevailing in the field of primary care. It was also voted against by the People's Party, which does not consider it necessary. We denounce the bloody situation in our country. We have seen how the councillor has presented in this Parliament the plan of care for suicide without economic memory, and that budgeting after budget remains without departures for him. We denounce in this Parliament truly dramatic situations, such as the Ombudsman's report on the situation of internal persons in Conxo. We denounce situations here, such as suicide in a patient's HULA despite having warned of this person's risk situation. In every case, we meet with the People's Party Wall. Despite the situation in which mental health is found in our country, they effectively denounce the collectives and College of Psychologists and Psychologists in Galicia that there is a waiting list of more than 8,000 people for a psychiatry consultation — eight months of waiting for the first consultation, and successive consultations that take a very long time — and that staff paintings are low. The average in Galicia of psychologists is 3.4, when in the state it is 4.3; and we don't talk about the European Union, which is 18 per 100,000 inhabitants. Of course, it seems that the staffing of professionals is not as close as necessary. It denounces the collective that there are only 98 clinical psychologists and psychologists who pay attention to psychology in Sergas -- a figure that is frozen -- that waiting lists are, as we have just described, unjustifiable and unacceptable; that there are devices without clinical psychologists, such as the Compostela Day Hospital, or some with a minimum endowment. They report that 1 in 10 people in Galicia consume antidepressants and that it is the second territory that consumes them the most, or that's what they consume most tranquilizers or hypnosedants, 15%. Another really alarming fact is that 20,000 girls and children under the age of 15 consume anxiolytics in Galicia. The statistics reflect that, despite having a population with a prevalence of very high mental disorders, the care response is practically—or almost exclusively—in many cases—medicine. This situation, of course, should change, it would have to change, if there was a sensitive government. Because since 2010 there have been 3,000 suicides in Galicia, 3,000. We could talk about bloody statistics, as is the case in the province of Lugo, with a chilling prevalence. And in spite of all this data, we see how the mental health plan has been delayed for at least two years after nullifying the mental health plan of 2009.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u214	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u215	I mean, we have a really dramatic situation in mental health in Galicia and we see that, in the face of this situation, we have a Government, with the People's Party, which is not devoting any attention or concern or resources to it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u216	Thank you, thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u217	We support this initiative and will continue to insist on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u218	For the Joint Left Group, Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u219	Thank you, President. We will also support this initiative. And we believe, in addition, that the situation with regard to mental health care is very alarming in our country. Not only do we believe it, but there are alerts that have been making the families of people with mental illness for many years, the people themselves with mental problems, as well as the health professionals. We've had a decade of absolute disillusionment with this issue. Since they arrived in the Government, the only thing they did was apply cuts and constant privatizations. And if this is a general dynamic that can be applied — and can be described — to the whole of health, we think it's particularly serious about mental health care. Disgruntling is simply checked when we see the squares called out by psychology professionals. Since 2010 there have been 3 squares. It's totally ridiculous for the demand situation that exists and despite the fact that the recommended ratios are far above, and, as has already been said here, by not talking about the ratios that the World Health Organization recommends. Professionals, as I say, have been reporting this situation for a long time. They're completely saturated with waiting lists that are endless. You have to wait several months to access a first consultation and then, in addition, when you arrive at that first consultation, you have to wait several months for a second consultation is totally insumable. It shows a lack of empathy and a lack of absolute concern about the problems that affect more people every day. The summary of the planning of the People's Party on mental health is deplanization and paralysis, because they did absolutely nothing but papers that were left on wet papers. And the solution or alternative for people with these problems is, if they have resources, going to private, as always, the only alternative in general in health care. And mental health is especially serious. And if not, continue to endure, suffering. And so it happens that many times, through these endless waiting lists for this first mental health consultation, there are these so high degrees of overmedication with psychopharmacists, which is a general trend. It's not just here, we don't say it, many professionals say it. And there's also a very clear issue of gender: the number of women who consume psychopharmaceuticals is very high. Many people come to a consultation and the only solution they get to deal with their problem is a pill, because if you don't, waiting for a clinical psychology professional is waiting, as I say, three months if you're lucky. Paying attention to our health is a right, but health does not just matter about physical conditions. Psychological health care is also a right and it is not, of course, guaranteed. They cut it, in addition, just when he needed it most. During the economic crisis — on the pretext of the economic crisis — it has been said on this issue, when we know that obviously the problems and complicated situations of the crisis, resulting from the lack of material conditions, also have a direct effect on the rise of mental disorders. Without employment and without housing it is much more likely — and so demonstrated by the studies — that these types of conditions appear. As I say, the only alternative is to resort to private health or excessive medication. There's a need for a Greek mental health plan, but it's not just a role, it's endowed with economic resources. Because often protocols and plans that they make are absolutely useless. And so we see it, for example, if we talk about suicide. You can't keep everything on paper, you have to have a specific budget allocation; because if you don't, it's not going to be of any use at all. We're talking about a fundamental issue — it's already mentioned here — and it's only in 2018 that 288 people died because of this. And despite the fact that the figures are being reduced, which is true that they are being reduced, we continue to see totally shocking figures. And I will lastly insist on this issue. It's been a long time insisting that clinical psychology professionals be incorporated into primary care. That 1 out of every 3 queries have something to do with a psychological component makes it clear that incorporating these professionals into primary care would solve many problems; it would, of course, solve the waiting lists of family medical professionals, but it would also help to do what is not done in any case, which is prevention. Because if we talk about that, of course, we have these endless waiting lists when mental health problems are already in place, that a person with a problem, anxiety, depression, or more complex disorders has to wait three months for a first date, we don't talk about the inability of professionals to make prevention. And prevention must be done. Just as prevention is done on other kinds of issues, such as obesity, as in diabetes, because prevention and protective measures are also needed to avoid the very high incidence of this problem.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u220	Thank you. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u221	Or we change the path completely and have a minimum of empathy for the people who are suffering or, of course, we're not going along the right way.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u222	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u223	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. About 20% of the population living in industrialized societies experience some kind of mental disorder throughout their lives. These disorders affect people of any age, economic status, educational or cultural level, and they cost both the individual suffering from them and their family, the health system and the community as a whole. In Galicia, the last epidemiological study conducted in adults has a 21% number of people who will have mental disorders throughout their lives. Mr. Torrado, mental health isn't the little sister, as you said here. Mental health is more than just the absence of mental disorders. It's an integral part of health, there's no health without mental health. The rapid social changes, stressful working conditions, gender discrimination, social exclusion, unhealthy lifestyles, low educational levels, violence and physical health are risk factors for the development of mental disorders, not forgetting that there are factors of personality and psychological factors, such as biological and genetic conditioners, which make people more vulnerable than others to mental disorders. It is important to note that there are effective and profitable cross-sectoral strategies and interventions to promote, protect and restore mental health. In 2018 the Social Policy Council drafted a census that placed mental disorders as the second cause of disability in our community, and these had the greatest incidence on young people and adults under 45 years of age, resulting in a great economic and emotional burden on the family support system. In addition, Galicia is characterized by an aging population with a large geographical dispersion. These two factors make it possible for young and younger adults with the highest burden of disability to add to the population over 65 years of age, which mostly lives alone, and the population living in remote areas of the population. It's a lack of planning, Mrs. Vázquez Verao. Sergas, aware of this problem and attentive to the needs of the Greeks, appreciates this whole problem and has already created a working group in 2017 that is responsible for the development of the Welsh Mental Health Plan. Galicia has assumptions. They were even approved in this House yesterday. And by the way, health budgets are the highest in history, with 4,109.6 million euros. Mr. Torrado, a month before you registered this initiative, on 29 October, at the Commission's 3rd meeting, the Health Adviser stated clearly that the Strategic Mental Health Plan 2020-2023 will be approved next year, which will have five strategic lines and 112 projects, which will improve the quality of health care services. This is an opportunistic initiative, nothing we've ever been accustomed to. This, as I told you, is announced. We have no problem voting on this point. And, as I've already told you, it's a plan worked, meditated upon, elaborated by specialists and is made and announced by the Health Counsellor. With regard to points 2 and 3, you, Mr. Torrado, are missing the truth again. In the period 2009-2019 10 clinical psychology squares were convened. Can we call more? Do you need more? It is true, but, look, the procedure knows that it is determined by the criteria set out in the state budget laws, which set the replacement rate — implanted in the 2011 Budget Act and approved by the Socialist Government in 2010. New measures and programmes included in the Galician Strategic Mental Health Plan, which will enter into force in 2020, will be launched within a few months. This plan collects the development of programs and resources for mental health care and for the promotion of research and innovation. The main objective is, through these actions, to reduce the impact and suffering that mental disorder causes on people who present it and on their families. Surely this objective will coincide with the demands of clinical psychology. We are going to ask for a point-by-point vote. And I didn't want to go without saying that — at least for me, as a health careman — it's embarrassing for you to speak lies and fallacies of health, Mrs Prado. I missed her before when you talked about Verín, you could be here. But, of course, the votes, which seem to be of no concern to the Galician Nationalist Block party, seem to matter to Mrs. Pontón. Are you saying that the professionals who took care of that woman did the wrong thing? Do I understand? They talked about women's and children's rights. The rights of women and children are security, and that's why that decision was made. You, with your lies, are the real perpetrators of the alarm that you are creating in society. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u224	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u225	Thank you, President. First of all, I want to thank you for the support of the groups who expressed it and acknowledge my surprise. We were counting on the possibility of adopting the initiative. But, well, it's legitimate that you can't approve everything, or in part. Up to that point it's reasonable. And, honestly, Mrs. Friend, I expressed my surprise at your attitude toward me, which I did not understand. I didn't think it was an initiative we could have had that attitude. It wasn't that, I think -- excuse me if I did -- my intention at the initial introduction. You were mad at me for saying that mental health was the little sister of health. It's just that you can see. It's a hypercurrent comment among professionals. I'm not a clinical psychologist. I'm a psychologist, you know that. I won't be the one who despises psychologists. I'm not a clinical psychologist, but I share with some, I talk to many. And it's a very common perception, it's a very common literal expression. I'm telling you the truth. If it's not right, you're mad at everyone who says it, but it's a way of expressing it. Yes, I'm aware that the advisor said he was going to approve the plan. There's a problem with that, and that's the third time you say it. The previous two didn't. He announced it in 2015, and neither did he. So he announced it in 2015 and he didn't, the councilman announced it twice and he didn't, and he announced a third. Let us at least doubt it. It would be, I say, opportunistic. Home!, with those precedents of the same counselor it is not so opportunistic, but it is not the first time we have brought this initiative, we have already discussed it in committee. So it's not an initiative right now, it's a repeated initiative. We've demanded it before. We're not going to say that the advisor is opportunistic for announcing a plan that we ask for, that's certainly not. But I really don't understand. And then tell me that I miss the truth in proposals 2 and 3. How am I going to miss the truth if they're proposals? I'm not making any information about what happened, they're proposals for the future. To propose to hire more is to miss the truth? I really didn't understand this at any time. I understand that you are willing to vote on point 1. It seems to us that this initiative is incomplete. But we agree to vote on points. For us it is unsatisfactory to be able to vote on direct reality, which is to hire professionals, because that's what gives the system a greater capacity to answer in reality. To approve plans and strategies is fine, but when we've been announcing them for years, then what we have to do is hire the professionals who run them. But, look, by making it more direct — I didn't say it in the first intervention, with all the constructive will, the National Health Strategy is the one that recommends that we have at least 20 more clinical psychologists in the system today. He worked for the Ministry in 2014, and ruled the People's Party. You are refusing to vote for something that the People's Party says must be done. Of course, with the Verín show they're giving there, the PP can vote on anything, total... Mrs. Friend, really, no problem. If you're only ready to approve point 1, which is to make a strategy, we'll vote for points. There's no problem, but the feeling it brings me is that you don't understand or want to understand mental health. And that's a problem for the future.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u226	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Before we move on to the next non-legislation proposal, we greet the second-party students of the ESO of the Institute of Ames. Welcome to this Parliament. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members, on the opening by the Galician Council of a process of dialogue with the trade union organizations representing the teacher to recover the school hours of 18 and 21 hours
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u227	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Rodil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u228	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Good morning, too, to the student and the teacher who accompany us. And, besides, a good coincidence. We're going to deal with something that I'm absolutely convinced they're worried about. We are bringing today from the BNG an initiative that collects demands from trade union organizations representing our country's teaching teacher, which also collects the will expressed through the day of strike that was convened last week on December 12. It is an initiative that calls for dialogue to the Galician Union, which specifically calls for dialogue to the Education Council, which calls for a negotiation so that the Greek teacher will regain the school hours of 18 and 21 hours in our country with a single objective, which is to have enough time to do well, but above all to do better, his work. It's about recovering rights after a decade of cuts, cuts in wages, loss of jobs, ten years when the People's Party here in Galicia was an advanced student of what would then be that plan of cuts that would start in the Spanish state. And teaching time is a good example of this. Galician Union increased in 2011 the time the teacher should be in class. It's been eight years in which the People's Party failed and left on paper the agreement signed by trade union organizations in 2007. I assumed a loss of rights for teachers and teachers in our country, making their working conditions worse and with them diminishing the quality of public education in our country. With less teachers today than there were in Galicia ten years ago, the Greek teachers and teachers have to take saturated classes, especially in the urban and peri-urban areas of our country. Because using, as was done today morning, grossly, by the president of the Galician board, half of pupils or students by class, or by teacher student, in a country like ours, with a huge population dispersal, with deep territorial imbalances between the interior and the Atlantic axis, as if it were comparable to the reality that the people of Vigo, those of the Coruña, or those of their metropolitan areas, with which you live in Negueira de Muñiz, Navia de Suanna or Meira, is to want to cover the sun with a finger. In view of this reality, I insist on saturated classes, with very high ratios, especially in urban and peri-urban areas, with an ever more heterogeneous and diverse student — and welcome diversity — the professor of our country today has to meet a reality with greater need for support but without sufficient resources to deal with it properly. This is not an opinion or an opinion only of the Galician Nationalist Block, not even of the union organizations of our country. This is how the report on attention to diversity in basic education was collected by the Institute of Education Sciences of the University of Santiago de Compostela, a report commissioned by the Galicia School Council, which was debated yesterday and approved in large part of the proposals of trade union organizations to improve this attention to diversity in basic education in our country. In this report — although requested and conducted by the Galicia School Council — it is concluded that 60 per cent of all respondents point out that human resources for attention to diversity are very scarce and insufficient. It is also linked to the need to increase teachers in schools, but also to the fact that teachers have more time, more time flexibility and more stability to do better — I insist — their work. The teacher's time overload and lack of time for coordination are cited in this report as the main obstacles to developing educational support tasks in better conditions. Trade union organizations have been demanding, demanding, for years now, a new hourly distribution that returns to the teacher at 18 hours of secondary school, in vocational training and special school curriculum, and the 21 hours of secondary school education in children, in primary and special education; precisely to better and more personalized care for the student, increasingly diverse. He explained it perfectly, with the cock of the strike call last December 12th, one of the teachers. He said, "I don't want to work any less" -- because they're going to work the same, 37 and a half hours, which is what's recognized by law -- "I want and need more time to guide and review the work of the student as he needs and deserves, more time to be able to attend to mothers and parents in the puppetry, time to coordinate with the rest of the department. I need to be able to work more with students with dyslexia, with ADHD, with curriculum adaptation, or with those who were not born in Galicia and need to adapt to their pace and level in learning the language of this country. I want to have more hours" — I said — "to design and prepare learning proposals, more hours to be at the disposal of education and the educational community also outside the classroom walls. Because to meet" — he said — "to 161 students with their realities, needs, specificities, motivations, levels and interests, it takes shorter time and ratios, of course" — he said. The teacher who claims in our country, ladies and gentlemen, through their trade union organizations, is that they give him back his rights and improve the quality of the education system for the benefit of the student. It's not about working less, it's about having better working conditions to provide better public service and better quality. For years they have refused to recover this teaching schedule, which is the result — I insist — of an agreement signed by practice all trade union organizations with the Education Council, with the Board of Directors of Galicia in 2007. For years they refused to be caught, first, in the economic crisis as an alibi. The economic crisis was the alibi to go to the most hourly burden, the more educational burden in the classroom. Then they were excused or found that the Spanish State did not allow that school hours to be reduced. It is true that in 2012 the Spanish Government, the Central Government, invaded the political competences of this country. He did it, in addition, with his visa and pleasure; he did it with the most ominous silence of the board of Galicia, passively seeing how he passed over political power, political competences, which our country has recognized. But that excuse ended in 2019 with the derogation of the Royal Decree passed by the Spanish Government in 2012, which again recognized what were in fact already the competences of the autonomous communities. And so he again recognized their ability to manage and decide on that time allocation. What we have proposed since the BNG today, ladies and gentlemen, is that this Parliament clearly urges the Council of Galicia to exercise self-government, firstly, to exercise the political competences which the Government of this country has recognised; and that it should do so, in addition to public education, educational quality, and to the benefit of the whole of the German student. We propose that you open a dialogue table with an urgent nature to negotiate with trade union organizations the recovery of academic hours of eighteen and twenty-one hours, that you do so for a higher quality of public education in this country, for the right of the Greek teacher to be able to have a time distribution that allows them to do their work better and, above all, — and with this end — a table with which you will ultimately recover rights that go in favour of our country's student — that we had, moreover, the luck and chance that he was here today listening to this debate. For now, for my part, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u229	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u230	A greeting to all the teachers and students who accompany us today. We are, of course, in line with this initiative, with the need to start the dialogue to recover the pre-crisis educational time, because what has been shown in recent times is that the Council did not want to negotiate and that it was only forced to sit down with closures, with mobilizations, with that last strike that was a success. We think it's time for them to recover the rights that, after a crisis used as an excuse, have been cut — especially to the public staff. We speak mainly of quality in teaching. And there are no excuses, because there are already autonomous communities — as it has been explained — that have recovered the teaching time prior to the crisis. It's not worth the excuse of the economic crisis. We're talking about the loss of 1,200 high school jobs, and we're talking about the need to get back to school. This would improve the quality of teaching, among other things, so it has already been explained today: students could be reduced per class in certain places where there is massification. In a country like ours, you can't just look at the average when you see urban places where there's massification that contrast with other rural areas where, of course, there's not the same student ratio per class. In addition, this measure would reduce the number of teachers who had to provide subjects from which they were not specialists. The summary is what has already been exposed by the professor himself on strike: if you don't want to work less, you want to work better. It's only to recover lost rights, it's a measure that directly affects the quality of teaching. It's about having the right educational time to be able to spend time on that real increase in bureaucratic work, to be able to spend time on puppetry, to be able to devote time to these equality and attention programs to the various groups that require greater attention. As far as diversity is concerned, it is clear that all indicators tell us about the need for more human resources and that these diversity care professionals are having working conditions that need to be improved. That is why we must also point out that all opposition groups are proposing amendments to the recently approved 2020 budgets, which have been rejected by the People's Party; amendments that have an impact on the need to implement this plan for recovery of educational time. They have been rejected but we hope that this initiative will be taken into account — in addition to agreeing with all the union education centres — which calls for a negotiation of something as basic as opening a dialogue and regaining rights. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u231	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left Joint Group, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u232	Thank you, President. Go ahead, the Left Joint Group will also support this initiative. We're going to support her because that was our commitment to the teaching union organizations that conveyed her demands to us. In fact, since our group we have undertaken similar initiatives, and even discussed in this House on numerous occasions, similar to today's. We did, we've already defended such initiatives, because we understand it's a matter of justice and also a question of rights. It's a matter of justice because, while the Government of Greece repeatedly repeats the speech of economic recovery, the fact is that the teachers and teachers of this country come far from that recovery. And rightly you see it far away, because even yesterday the People's Party again voted against the amendments of all opposition groups precisely aimed at reversing some of the most serious cuts that were made about public education, and also amendments specifically referred to this issue, to the necessary recovery of the educational time they had before they applied the cuts. Some of these cuts that were made in the excuse of the economic crisis have affected both the student — who obviously has less educational quality — and the families — who have had to cope with new cohesives that they still have to assume — and the teacher — who has seen to increase the ratios in the classrooms, reduce their purchasing power to 25%, according to the latest calculations, or reduce the coverage of lower labour and at the same time, as was said here, the increase in the school day. The refusal of the Education Council to open a dialogue, a negotiation for the recovery of the rights of the Greek teacher in carrying out his work, with particular reference to the demand that we are concerned about today, which is that of the recovery of the school hours that the Greek professor had before the application of the regulations that unilaterally imposed on the Council of Galicia in 2011 and which would finally also apply the Rajoy Government, is leading, as we said, to an important unital mobilization of all trade unions. We think the Council should not go on for no reason, nor be chained without listening to social agents in such a sensitive matter as this. Because it's fair -- I said -- and because of course we're convinced that it's also a matter of rights, so much of the educational staff themselves, that you have the right to recover what you had -- they're not asking for any improvement but only recovering rights they already had -- as well as the student, who has the right to the best quality of teaching possible. And in this sense, the turn of eighteen and twenty-one hours will serve, among other things, that child and primary puppetry can better care for the student, in order to be able to do again overflow, in order to improve the student's attention with specific educational needs — increasingly numerous in the classroom — so that they can be coordinated between the different departments and the guidance department, in order to carry out more extra-school activities and participate in pedagogical renewal projects, those that again and again announce the Council but that, if you don't give the teachers time to assume them, they become the one of the ages, only advertising and propaganda. It's about, as it was said here and as the professor himself called the strike, to work better, not to work less, to have time to make sure that Galician children have the best possible education. For our own sake, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u233	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning again, gentlemen. Mrs Rodil, I wish you every success — in staff, always, and in politics too — on this initiative, although, taking into account the background on this very matter — and on the initiative of our parliamentary group — you have been dealt with in this Parliament, I believe that both you and I know what the outcome of this non-legislative proposal will be. Our parliamentary group made an appeal to Mrs. Education, University and Vocational Training Counsellor on April 29, 2019, this year, and we put forward a motion for this Parliament to urge the Council of Galicia to recover these conditions from the timetables you referred to. The motion obviously didn't go forward because it counted with the votes against the People's Party. Surely at that time the terminology of the People's Party's Mantra was not yet coined with regard to the opposition initiatives, which is political trilerism, but perhaps we were something visionary, because indeed a few months later all trade union organizations demanded what our parliamentary group was asking for at that time. They asked for it and, once they couldn't get the right answer to their demands from the Council, they called a day off the 12th of this month last week. And all this because the Education Council, after thirty-two years, since 1987, of a fixed hourly burden, and after that in 1997 these schedules — yes, with a matatized distribution — were consolidated, and after that in 2007, according to the trade union organizations, if the hours of the teachers' body were reduced from twenty-two to twenty-one hours, it amended unilaterally and without the need of state legislation, of that real law, the hours of teaching bodies — in particular that of the teachers' body. And it changed it not because of a matter of necessity related to teaching activity. You can check in order that you have changed that schedule as you speak of the necessary attention to students since they arrive at the educational centers until the classes begin. I mean, it wasn't a teaching matter, it was a matter of attention to the student. And then, indeed, this royal decree was published. It's quite a picturesque question that a government with an absolute majority, like Mr. Rajoy's government in 2012, resorted to that kind of figure. It seems there was such an emergency that it prevented the processing of a royal decree through ordinary channels. Because it was a royal decree of a government with an absolute majority. And, indeed, we have arrived at this moment when that royal decree is changed. It is changed because there is a different economic situation — if it was necessary in that year 2012 to take that measure — that allows it to be reversed. And there are autonomous communities that have made use of that power which is in the real decree published last year, but not the Autonomous Community of Galicia, not the Autonomous Community of Galicia, because there is an interest in continuing to be the kings of the containment of expenditure, the kings of the deficit, the kings of management. And obviously reducing the schedule again may mean an increase in teachers, yes, but not in the case of the teacher body. And the proof that it's not necessary is that the catalogues of primary and childhood education centers are still the same as when there was the other hour, i.e. twenty-one hour. So it's a lie that it's necessary to increase one position in the body of teachers, it's a lie, because the catalogue is the same as it was before. There will be an increase that can be absorbed into the secondary education body, and I say that it can be absorbed because the figures — all of them officers, some of the autonomous Community budgets adopted in 2017 and 2018, and others the statistics of the Galician board's public service themselves — reveal that in 2017 30.489 teachers and teachers of non-university bodies were budgeted and that in fact played their roles in the 29.389 centres; that is, 1,100 less than those who were budgeted. And in 2018 the difference was 1,088. There were 30,494, and there were 29,406 who eventually did their job in the centers. So it's a question of political decision-making, it's a question of whether the professor of this autonomous community is being taken into account. It's not a budgetary issue that's not so low on the dignity of the teaching profession, which, as they say systematically, is the best education system in Galicia, which I share. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u235	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u236	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have indeed had the opportunity to speak in different debates in this House on the question of teaching hours. And the People's Party always tries to be rigorous in the debates and not manipulate data or reports. For our group, as I said on more than one occasion, it's about doing educational politics, and for you it's about politicizing education. Because, Mrs. Rodil, I am absolutely sure that you know that the Constitutional Court rejected the appeal brought by the Basque Government against the real decree of 2012, which extended school hours. Therefore, you should amend your explanatory statement, which lacks the truth — as you said here too from the rostrum —. But, above all, I should have proposed another resolution that would actually allow the door to reduce educational hours, because you should ask the Government of the State to comply with Law 4/2019, to improve the conditions for the performance of teaching and teaching in the field of non-university education, which has been in force since 9 March this year. Because it's really a law, that's what it is, of wet paper. The Government of the Socialist Party shoots with the king's powder; that is, they are recommendations that directly affect the budgets of the autonomous communities in the purest style of "I invite and you pay," Mr. Álvarez. It's a law, in addition, which is pure appearance. He intends to remain well with the teaching group, but we must remember, because he says the explanatory statement himself, that it was the very Government of the People's Party — which was forced to take drastic measures at a time when the economic crisis began. It was the People's Party, Mr. Rajoy's government, which started the recovery in the 2016 budgetary exercises, returning, for example, the 100% replenishment rate, a measure that results in the student/student ratio because it returns the rule to the one established in the LOE. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, Article 2 of that royal decree was already repealed. And you know, in addition, that Galicia is the community with the lowest average of students per teacher, without any increase at any time, ladies and gentlemen, at no time, the ratio established at the LOE. But, of course, today that is also called into question, because, as positive data, we have to change the measurement criterion, Mrs. Rodríguez. It was possible to maintain that ratio because the Board, without modifying the catalogue of teaching staff — as Mr Álvarez now acknowledged — recovered the timetable, a timetable that had indeed been reduced in the Bipartite. But this unmodified recovery of the catalogue has allowed students in our educational system to have more hours of educational attention while increasing the number of professionals caring for diversity. Ladies and gentlemen, all this resource allocation effort for the public education system is solely for the Greeks and the Greeks. We owe nothing to anyone, but on the contrary, the Government of the State maintains an economic debt to Galicia that we have reiterated in this House on many occasions. In the educational field, we demand that you comply with your own law, because that first additional provision states that it will be the General Administration of the State to which you provide an adequate and sufficient funding framework. And it's not an excuse, Mrs. Rodil, that's what the law says. And now that your group has representations do this country a favor, do this country a favor and claim that the Government will comply with the law, for example, starting with Ceuta and Melilla, where it has direct competences and where it does not have that educational schedule that he recommends for the rest of autonomous communities. I already imagined that all opposition groups would agree with their non-law proposal, because, by analyzing the amendments, indeed, both the Joint Group and you and the Joint Left Group provided economic resources for the recovery of teaching time. And, Mr. Álvarez, to be so visionary, you've been left behind, you've been behind, because the Socialist Group has made no amends to recover the teaching time. I suppose that lack of amendment is because you are calling Madrid to say that they pay and that they comply with the law — so we can talk about the recovery of school hours — or because, as you have just acknowledged, the system is sufficiently attentive. Ladies and gentlemen, the priorities of the German Government at this time have been explained in the presence of the advisor's budgets. And for the results of all the reports, including the last PISA report, it's not wrong for the Italian public education. The quality of our system is absolutely guaranteed. And we also see that it is not a priority of the collective, lords of the opposition, because the follow-up of the strike was really low. I'm not going to give the Council's data, but we're not going to use the union data either. Let's say, if we average, there was less than 40% of support for that strike — being very generous. The Council is always open to dialogue, as it has always done in seeking to remain a relevant community in the field of public education, and the reports above the table, so they support it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u237	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio Vilasánchez. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u238	Thank you, President. First of all, I thank the Joint Group, the Socialist Party and the Joint Left Group for their support. Indeed, this was a debate that has already taken place both in the Commission and here in plenary, but I think it is important that it be given again. I, Mrs. Antonio, the only thing I see are excuses. And now, by appealing to how many people participated in the December 12 strike, I'm not going to enter a number war. You say it's not a priority of the collective. Look, when in 2011, and in an absolutely unilateral way, Mr. Feijóo's government and the People's Party decided to leave this agreement on wet paper and breach that agreement with the trade union organizations adopted in 2007 and increase the hourly burden of teaching hours in the professor's classes there were two absolutely massive strikes. You gave them exactly the same and they went ahead with your decisions. We also had a good example yesterday of what the popular will of the Monterrey district is with the Parish of Verín and you give them exactly the same. [[Applause]] So it's one more excuse. Now, well, it wasn't all the crowd that you should be, so now you have another more excuse, another more excuse to continue to deny -- and I insist very much on this -- what is the recovery of rights, another distribution of the workload and the teacher's working day, so that you can increase the quality of our country's education system. It also refuses to stand by or try to stand behind the Ministry of Education and the Government of the State. We have already formulated it here on other occasions, we are the first to understand that things, in terms of the funding plan of our country's public systems, have to be different. And for that, political pressure must be made — not to come here complaining about this forum — and to negotiate and defend another framework, a different financing framework for this country. Because we put the case of that last disposition in relation to the teacher's funding, but we can put it on the table that the Spanish State has to pay 50% of the dependency and does not have to do it in the last ten years. Do we stop providing services or improving services because they're not bringing up all resources when there's economic possibilities to do so with the budgets that the Galician Union has? No, it's a political decision. And there's a lack of political will to want to recognize the rights of the teacher -- I insist very much on this -- and to improve the quality of our country's education system. [[Applause]] And the sample is in which other territories — Canaries, for example — have done so. They adopted, and also taking advantage of a debate that we had here in this House too, which was the investment of the surplus. In the canary case one important part has been assigned to that timetable recovery, the other time distribution in classes already for this course 2019-2020. It is the case of others who have a special regime, such as Navarre or Basquedi, who have their concerts, but we also have examples of those of general regimes, such as Extremes or Cantabria, who sat at a negotiating table and agreed with trade union organizations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u239	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u240	...how to begin to reduce, for example — as it was pointed out — through child and primary education, that they would have a smaller public economic investment. You're right. That's what we think there is. And what we see is that they want to keep them after the crisis is over. They're in that alibi that was the economic crisis to deny them the rights of public personnel, in this case the teacher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u241	Thank you. Non-legislative proposal by the G.P. of the Joint Left Group, at the initiative of Da María de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and da Luca Chao Pérez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the cultural sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u242	There are amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and to the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u243	To formulate the non-law proposition has the floor to Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u244	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Mr. President. Let's bring here a very important subject. It's the theme of maltreatment of Galician culture; in particular, the abuse of the Galician Agency of Cultural Industries. Well, to talk about the uncertain scenario of cultural creation is also to talk about a sector that generates 2% of GDP and 3% of employment in this country but receives just 0.11% of GDP, when in 2009 it received at least 0.25% of GDP. The theater makers' family know we don't have the truth, but we're looking for it. The "Culture Against Lie" T-shirt is because a lot of lies have been seen and we've taken very lightly the facts of the fallacy. The fallacy must have consequences in all political groups, in all. Because one thing is what you say and another is what you do. And this is not receipt. It's not welcome because democracy is really threatened with so much fallacy and so much lie. There is a lack of a brave project, a lack of rescue of the weather to which culture is subjected, the defense of a future, a future of a nutrition sector that pointed to Galicia's identity signals. We live in times of demolition. And this isn't black, nor are the apocalypse riders, it's a reality. We need, like May water, experts and experts to build, to build with discretion, with political weight, with the ability to make decisions. Well, we miss a script, we miss some planning, we miss the truth, we miss dialogue. We're going to argue, and we're going to argue, saying budgets are dwindling, and we're going to talk to data, not opinions. We're also going to talk about the mythical and destructive politics of the People's Party; perhaps, because culture is afraid, maybe so. To talk about the present and future of the country is to talk about what Lorca said: "Give me half bread and a book." Culture is necessary, and we're also talking about public money, we're not talking about private management. Well, there are two very recent questions. The first one was in the last round. Mrs Galego's Nationalist Bloc, Olalla Rodil, asked a question about budgets to the Culture Councillor, Mr. Román Rodríguez. And when we, all of us, ask a question to a counselor, a question to the Government, a question to the president, for decoration, for commitment, for political obligation, must be given a consistent answer. Mr. Román took advantage of it and said he was very happy, because he has a lot of joy in his body and is a wonder, the choice of eternal youth and humor, of course. But to venture with such serious themes, when you're the ultimate responsibility for our culture, it seems to be boisterous to us. He literally said he was very pleased with the question to, first, not answer it and then announce, like who throws a clock bomb, that there would be an amendment to the statute of the Agency. And it stayed so wide and so wide. Five days ago, the same honourable Member — five days ago in the Committee on Culture — asked the Director of the Galician Agency of Cultural Industries in the same sense: what is going to happen? What is going to happen to these budgets? Well, really the counselor calls this to deal with the changes, make yourself beautiful!, when actually dealing with the changes means drastically reducing budgets, boosting the loss of capacity, disinhabiting, abandoning, disarming, dismantling, dismantling, yes, dismantling, culture. Who do you want to fool? It's clearing everybody's house with public money. And this is doing it again? Is it to face the changes? I don't know, either the counselor is so glad he's making jokes that we don't understand, or, if not, it's a real insult to intelligence, they're intolerable mistresses, questions with irresponsible answers, lies and adorations. And we, when we say there's a lie, justify and argue. Because you tell us: Okay, Mrs. Maria Antón, for example, told me one day that I told myself what The Way Sound receives 6 million euros. And he said he was lying. You're right, it's not EUR 6 million in two editions, actually -- and I'm telling you publicly. It's 5,725,000 in two years for Road Sound, which is about to be investigated, irregular contract. There's a lot to talk about. Make sure I get the Sound out of the Way, the music festival. We love music and youth too, but what we don't like is that they spend for the Sound of the Way in two years public money so it's half the budget for the entire Greek culture, half it! How much do you have the Galaga Agency of Cultural Industries?, how much? Eleven million and peak. I don't say the peak so I won't be called a liar; I speak of memory, because I'd rather do so openly. How much budget does the Tourism Agency have? Seventy million euros. The difference is great, isn't it? Budgets for the Tourism Agency and the Galician Agency for Cultural Industries are not balanced. Isn't that true? And besides, we have to say that we have in Galicia, I think twelve public agencies -- correct me if there's a mistake -- twelve. Of all these, the Galaga Agency of Cultural Industries is the fourth with less budget and the Tourism Agency the second with more. It is clear that their star and public bet is the Xacobeo, but our country's culture deserves respect, dignity, the future. The workers and the workers of culture give a lot in exchange for how little they receive, a lot. So to announce a statute in which the profession says, please withdraw this project and open a negotiation process is absolutely legitimate. How can you lie to Mr Román and say that this amendment of the Gaga Agency Statute is in agreement with the sector? It's a lie, they didn't know anything. I didn't even know anything about the Association of Actors and Actresses, but I didn't know about the association of companies, but I didn't agree to anything, and I didn't know anything about the Academy. Well, what Junta wants is to reduce the artistic freedom of the leadership of the Dramatic Center, which will go from deciding to proposing. Look, when the Galego Institute of Performing Arts was transfused, and the Agency was formed, there was probably precipitation. It wasn't the same at the state level. Today, if we hadn't done this, we'd probably be talking about a status, but about the status of the Galego Dramatic Center. The scenic arts have their own codes; they mix art, technique, craftsmanship. Artistic and not only economic management is needed, balance is needed. You say propagandistically that the Council of Culture and Tourism is the one that grows, with a rise of 8.9 percent. It's another lie; it only goes up the Tourism Agency. Why would we say that? Agadic grows by 0.7 percent. Where? In Chapter I. What is Chapter I? The staff chapter, possibly to integrate the manager figure you want to enter here. But in chapter IV, the minima and the art production, so that an idea is made — they are not opinions; they are data and are well expressed — the Galego Drama Center — CDG — from 300,000 euros to 200,50,000. Obviously, with these small quantities, what production is intended for? The Coreographic Center, fifty to one hundred, and the CGAI, one hundred twenty thousand to thirty thousand. We always said that the CGAI, which is our film library, shouldn't be in an industry agency. So let's say in chapter IV, the actual reduction, in real terms, is 88.39. And what are they showing? Incompetence. What are they showing? I'm sorry. What are they showing? Lack of commitment to the whole sector. Well, I'll follow the second part and now I'll just ask the questions: oudiálogo?, uoconsenso?, can you agree with the sector?, and how can you hear it? How much more...? There's also more productivity for the Agency's managers. Let's talk about refounding and asking, give voice and be sensitive to the demand of a decent profession, which demands dignity to exercise its work. The Drama Center is more than thirty years old.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u245	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u246	You're welcome. Thanks to you. [[Applause]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u247	Thank you, President. Good day again. We will support this initiative. We have made a modification amendment simply to update the resolution and we believe that also to complete Mrs Cuña's own spirit, asking for the withdrawal of the draft Agadic Statute Reform Decree — we have also called for it in the Commission 4th since the BNG in the questions we have asked directly to Mr Sutil, the Director of Agadic— and also to resolve as soon as possible this public tender for the new direction of the Dramatic Centre and to call for public tenders to renew and occupy the vacancies that now exist in both the direction of the Coreographic Centre and the CGAI. We agreed with the position expressed by Mrs. Cuña in her speech. We believe, and so we have been reporting it in recent weeks since the BNG, which we are facing the creation of the right conditions to dismantle the centers, the production units that we now have in Galicia registered in this case to the Galaga Agency of Cultural Industries, namely the Drama Center and the Coreographic Center. And there is no more to go to the budget project that has already been approved in this plenary today, which is the official budgets that are planning to invest the Galician Union by 2020, which are again insisting on the cuts in the budgets of these production units. As noted above, the Drama Centre is now moving from €6,200,000 in 2019 to €350,000 by 2020, and in the case — which is still worse — of the Coreographic Centre, it is only EUR50,000, which is like saying nothing, nothing! And what we're trying to do is, I insist, create the right conditions to dismantle these production centres. But, as if that were little, we see — and it was announced here in the plenary in response to the question posed by the BNG to the Councillor of Culture — that what is proposed is a reform of the Agadic Statute that comes to give the coup de grace already directly to these production units. It foresees less autonomy for its management and provides for greater externalization of production. A statute which has not been negotiated with anyone at all — we have already expressed this complaint on the day of the question that we have put to Mr Rodríguez — but it is also that all the associations, organizations and entities representing the cultural sectors of our country have emerged, claiming that the Greek cultural sectors, which have not been in agreement with anyone and that — even worse — have been at odds with the demands that the Greek culture has repeatedly expressed in the last ten years. It is against what the creation law for the year 2008 of the Galaga Agency of Cultural Industries, which foresees the creation of an entity with its own legal personality to give these production units autonomy and — I insist — is the coup de gratis to the Dramatic Center and the Coreographic Center. It has not been negotiated, it has not been agreed and it does not respect the will or spirit of Agadic's creation law of 2008. We continue to insist that what needs to be done is to remove this project, that decree of reform of the Agadic Statute, which feels like negotiating with the entities, organizations and associations representative of the Greek cultural sectors, so that any changes that can be introduced into the Agadic Statute will be directed not only at their demands, but at the needs of the Greek cultural sectors themselves, which have been enduring for ten years not only a continuous policy of cuts, but not politics, cultural anti-politics in this country. Because everything that had progressed between the years 2005 and 2009 was either put in a drawer, as can be seen from the Plan of Performing Arts, which you decided is not met because you didn't want to, or it was to make political decisions that were gradually diminishing the increasingly precarious cultural sectors. What this country needs is a cultural policy worthy of such a name, with strategic planning and, above all, with budgetary resources on the table because, if not, it's not possible. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u248	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u249	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Mrs Cuña, of course we will support this initiative. We have made a amendment in which we are asking for the withdrawal of this draft decree which was implicit in its text but which, from my point of view, might have to explain more and which, at this moment, may be subsumed in Mrs Rodil's first amendment, which calls for the same, but expanded. We are also and I am at the personal level absolutely in agreement with everything you have said about the cultural policy of the Council of Culture and Tourism, which has always carried out a policy of improvisation and disillusionment; improvisation and disillusionment devoted virtually to all sectors, except this one. Because in the cultural production units, such as the Drama Center and the Coreographic Center, I would say that it does not carry out this policy of disillusionment, but rather a very conscious policy, very aware of what it wants to do and what it is doing, unfortunately. Because, for a long time, the scenic arts associations and dance associations have been talking about dismantling these two production units. They've been doing it for some time and talking about that the Coreographic Center has practically been unable to do anything because there are no budgets. But the Galego Dramatic Center for years has only been producing, practically not making turns, there's a budgetary reduction prior to this brutal that they've made, there's a reduction in casts and lately they've been on the path of outsourcing in the penultimate work they've done. They will remember that we made an interpellation and a motion about the fact that it really made us very concerned because the counsellor's answers, at first, were not clear, as always, but were then directed to a very dangerous message: there are already private companies. Now they're strong; not before, but now they are. I was very concerned, and — in fact — we were all right to be concerned because this amendment of the Agadic Statute from back to back to the sector, without talking to anyone, without consensus and with very important repercussions for all production centres indicates that it goes towards this dismantling, without taking into account that a public dramatic centre and a public choreographic centre are still needed because these cultural production units have to be taken from these two sectors. Speaking specifically of the theatre, it would have to be the Drama Center who was putting in place the most ambitious assemblies, the largest assemblies, because the public and the citizens of Greece have the right to see theater in large-format Welsh, they have the right to that, and the public initiative cannot do it. It had to be precisely the public production center who did it and will not be able to do it because it had a very small budget, but now it's very small. Those of the Galego Drama Center over 50 percent: from six hundred thousand to three hundred and fifty thousand. The Coreographic Center is already fifty thousand. This and nothing is all one. But in addition to this decree, as has already been said here, it leads to a loss of autonomy of the two production centers, outsourcing of the assemblies, privatization of the assemblies and productions and leading to a real dismantling of the Coreographic Center. It is unacceptable — and so all associations are saying — that dance and music are in the same department, because they have nothing to do with public policies, industry, music and dance. But in addition, the Center loses the ability to select artistic companies and make the selection and contract of artists. I mean, losing autonomy, when what I had was to go on a completely different path, and having more autonomy. I would like to say that we support this initiative, but we also support the demands of the theatre and dance sectors — present on this initiative — which have to be translated immediately into the withdrawal of this draft decree and into a negotiating table which is consistent with the changes to be made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u250	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u251	Thank you, President. The Galician Association of Actors and Actresses, the band Musica au Vivo and the Galaga Academy of Theatre, among others, warned of the draft amendment to the Statute of the Galician Agency of Cultural Industries and said that this will lead hand in hand to the privatization of the activity of the Galego Dramatic Center and the Galego Coreographic Center. This cut in autonomy and the reduction in competences of both entities are also of concern to the industry professionals, who demand transparency and dialogue to the Council of Culture, by criticizing that at no time this amendment of the Agadic Statute project has been communicated to them; something that the People's Party has already used to us. These associations have already demanded the withdrawal of this draft of the decree by understanding that it is moving from back to back to the sector. So, what are you gonna bring? This will bring what it always brings when the PP does something behind the industry: the systematic dismantling of these production centers, like everything else. And, what is the objective of the German Government? To strike Agadic with grace; to reduce the functions of his address, to remove his representation. For what? Well, to do what the People's Party knows best to do, which is to privatize. We are talking about our culture and our identity — something that the People's Party is not interested in — and about dismantling all the institutions that provide our culture and provide our identity. Also, since the Galaga Theatre Academy, which understands theatre as a public service, comes with this change of legislation and management a abandonment of responsibilities on the part of the German Government. You disregard public services to which citizenship is entitled. The decree which currently regulates the Galaga Agency of Cultural Industries and, through it, the direction of the Galego Dramatic Center, establishes in its article 26 that the latter has among his tasks to decide the annual programming plan and select and hire both the companies and the artists responsible for each show. However, the German Government makes a new decree with which the leadership of the Galego Dramatic Center will simply propose both issues. According to this decree, Agadic's leadership will become under its dependence a general coordinator managing the recruitment and personnel functions; it appears that the sector's representative entities fear that they have not an artistic vision, but a business vision. The text also modifies the functions of the lower technical departments dedicated to audiovisual policy, theatrical production and music and dance. The new decree also changes the previous Department of choreographic production for music and dance. For live music, the department will be empty of contents for the entire music sector. And also, the new decree also functionally assigns Agadic to the Galego Art Center of the Image, forming part of its audiovisual production department, with the consequent loss of independence of the Galician film library. And Mrs Cuña has already said this: the German Government allocates 300,000 euros to the Galego Drama Centre in front of the 600,000 euros that the German Government has sent last year. And to the Galego Coreographic Centre allocates fifty thousand euros against the one hundred and fifty thousand that has been allocated in the budgets of the year 2019. What is the reason why the German Government makes those cuts? Maybe that's how much more remains for Jacob, maybe they're showing contempt for our culture and identity, or they might be both. We're going to support this non-law proposal from En Marea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u252	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs New Farinha.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u253	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Mrs. Cuña, today it brings the debate in this plenary initiative on the cultural sphere and no one discusses its importance or the great work being done by the cultural sector in Galicia; no one discusses its importance or its need. It's an extensive content initiative, impossible to address within the five minutes of the time I have for this debate, but I want to nuance several points to which you refer. You're talking about budgets. Galicia bet another year for the approval of its budgets in time and form. It's the second autonomous community that approves their accounts. All this is normal, of course it's normal, but, given the circumstances we're living in, it's inevitable to make a comparison that the opposition doesn't like either, namely, Galicia's stability in the face of the instability and uncertainty of the central government. Again we meet, year after year, with the traditional catastrophist discourse of the opposition: black decade, cuts, insufficient resources, etc. And surprisingly, in your initiative, Mrs. Cuña, you make a comparison to the budgets of 2009. Do you think 2009 is a good year to take as an example? Do you think the year 2009 is for reference? Well, don't forget that it was the budgets that were drawn up by the bipartite, poorly elaborate, and that today the Greeks are still paying. You know that the budgets of the Council for Culture and Tourism grow by 2020, as the adviser explained in the budget appearance: one-hundred and eight percent for culture and one-hundred and seven percent for tourism. Yes, but for us, culture and tourism are complementary; two fundamental areas, two strategic areas that cannot be segregated or counter-segregated to Xacobeo, because there are cultural actions with great tourist impact and there are tourist actions with great cultural impact. Look, an example: The program Your Xacobeo. It consists of cultural projects, sports projects, gastronomy, heritage, tourism... and they certainly know — they know — that it was an unprecedented success with more than six hundred applications. I remember him because this is never mentioned. And you know that Road Sound is a festival that positioned Galicia also on the international panorama, thought of Galicia and made in Galicia. In short, the important thing is to have a budget, because I'm sure a company does not care what the function is paid through Agadic or through Xacobeo, because there will be games running from Xacobeo and there will be games running from Agadic. Unlike you, we think it's a great luck to have a unique event that opens Galicia's doors to the world. But you have phobias about everything related to Xacobeo, and tourism also has it; you don't like tourism very much. On the contrary, we think we must plan and design strategies, Mrs. Cuña. He said we had no plans and no strategies. You are the ones who have no planning, because it was clearly demonstrated by the previous Xacobeo, that the bipartite left with no planning. Just like there's no state commitment to Xacobeo today. With regard to the amendment to the Agadic Statute which is being carried out, of what you are also talking about in your speech and which, as we see in the amendments tabled, the opposition agrees to withdraw, this does not imply privatization, does not imply dismantling or reduction of competences, nor does it change or reform of Agadic's policies or programmes. These are only administrative changes of internal structure, of amendment of an internal amendment decree, to allow flexibility and efficiency in the implementation of policies and programmes that are continuously negotiated with the various sectors. Because there is dialogue with sectors, not only with those who are interested in their interests. So they don't use an administrative reform to attack the German Government. We will vote against this initiative for the whole above and, as I have already told you, to finish, the amendment of the Agadic Statute does not affect our cultural policies or its objectives. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u254	Thank you, Mrs. New. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u255	First, I would like to thank the three opposition groups not only for supporting the initiative but also for complementing all the legitimate, consistent and necessary demands of the cultural ecosystem. I also want to say that we are going to accept the amendments, because it is true that we need to clarify the requirements and demands of the profession. Obviously, we are going to incorporate them into our initiative, because what is ultimately about withdrawing this statute, which we already know is not going to withdraw, because they have a meeting with the Actors and Actress Association with the Director of the Agency, but there are good words about other matters. We're going to do an analysis, even if not for the kid, because we have very little time. Mrs. New, you're a perfect stranger to the sector, I'm sorry to tell you... [[Murmurs.]] We're not talking about Jacob; we're talking about a profession, we're talking about production units, we're talking about reality, we're talking about budgets, we're talking about data. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I ask you to review, please, the objective data of the Agency: chapter I, chapter two million and peak; chapter II, chapter six hundred and fifty thousand. Agencies must be transparent and have good management. There's no good management, there's no competition, there's no transparency, there's no need. I don't want to kill the messenger. Obviously, only listen to the statements of the counselor himself here and to Mr. Jacobo Sutil's statements. You reproduce this, as is logical. What's he saying? That changes are of a purely administrative nature to speed up proceedings, to give better service to society. With these small amounts, what service? A survival kit, or division of misery? What's the value of such a profile... experience in management areas if you can't pick up any resources? Changes don't mean anything that we say and it won't change anything in the operation of the Galego Dramatic Center! Like not, like it's an irrelevant change? Is it irrelevant to navigate the bird? Is it irrelevant? For you, you might. Is it irrelevant to leave the Drama Center, the Coreographic Center, our music sector, our audiovisual sector, in leather? It'll seem irrelevant to you and to the Sutil himself, too, but it's disgusting. For what? Do you need a new manager to distribute crumbs? Last year we warned. There were nine hundred thousand euros, and we've already said, that's why we can't perform the functions of what is a center. It's not an end to the course of what we're talking about; we're talking about production, we're talking about distribution, we're talking about technicians, we're talking about experienced people, we're talking about illuminators, stagewriters, we're talking about dramatists, we're talking about a whole fabric, we're talking about a decent ecosystem. So, what are you guys doing? Is that a joke? Do we love to say that they're dismantling to say? Do you think it's a political stance to question them? Don't!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u256	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u257	It's a fist — sorry — reality, it's a real attack on culture itself. When? We're not talking... the cultural sector isn't a milling sector, we're not asking. You demand them to fulfill their role, which is to guarantee the right of access to culture. It's an obligation that the Government has and that this Government is flagrantly failing. And there will be more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u258	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Pedro Puy Fraga and 14 other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament in relation to the demands of the Galician Council to the Central Government regarding the income of the value added tax accounts for 2017 pending liquidation, as well as the approval of the incentives to Galicia for good fiscal performance in the years 2017 and 2018
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u259	There are amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and to the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. [[G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Maria Teresa Porritt Lueiro, through her spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislative amendment: Amendment.The text of the resolution of the proposal should be replaced by the following:"The Parliament of Galicia urges the Government of Galicia to transfer to the Central Government, which is established after the election of the President of the Government by the Congress of Deputies, which primarily carries out a call from the Tax and Financial Policy Council to deal with matters related to future autonomous financing, as well as the possible claims of the autonomous communities on past exercises, including a solution, through the appropriate legal instruments, so that the Autonomous Community of Galicia does not cease to perceive the extent of the monthlyity of the EVI corresponding to the declaration-liquidation of 2017.]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas Bergantinos, through her spokesperson and in the light of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the House's Rules of Procedure, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this proposal which is not a rule.Replacement. point 2 of this proposal is to be replaced by the following:"2) Urges the Council of Galicia to correct its failed negotiating strategy with the Central Government and to introduce two issues in its agenda:(a)The demand, by means of a bilateral dialogue, of the immediate negotiation of a model of economic relations that corrects the underfunding of the Greek public services, in particular health, to begin with the immediate renegotiation of the financing system.(b)Initiate judicial actions against the central government by constant breaches and delays in economic matters and to affect our community.")]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u260	Mr. Puy has the floor to formulate the proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u261	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This, as we will all remember, is a subject that has been discussed on a number of occasions in this Chamber over the past few months and is a consequence of the fact that the Government of Spain, the Socialist Government chaired by Mr Sánchez, has not been able to approve the payment to autonomous communities, until recently, of the updates of the deliveries to the account. And right now, we don't know anything about the monthlyity of the EVI that owes all the autonomous communities, and as far as we're concerned, Galicia, too. This affects not all autonomous communities, but just a few. The incentives provided for the State budgets for those fulfilling communities are basically to condone the return of the negative liquidations of the years 2008 and 2009 for a problem, as we all know, also generated by that socialist government of then. We have reached since these three agreements: one, in July, to a GNP which I also had the honour of defending on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, and then on two motions for resolutions adopted in the debate on the state of autonomy: one on the initiative of the People's Parliamentary Group and one on the part of the Left's Joint Group. Well, what is the situation after this repeated request made by Parliament and also, logically, by the Government of the United States? The state of the situation is as follows: out of the 300-four-millionth update of payments due to Galicia, approved by real decree by a government in functions — which could not be done — the Autonomous Community entered into November one hundred sixty-seven million, in the current month of December — last Tuesday, one week ago — sixty million euros, and it is expected that by the end of the month the hundred and seven million euros will be entered pending updates of payments to the account. Of the hundred and ninety-six million euros—two hundred, rounding—of the liquidation of the 2017 VAT, by the implementation of the instant information system that has begun, no action leading to this income has been initiated, nor has any action leading to compensation. In this case, we are talking about eighty-five million of the year 2017 and so many others of the year 2018, one hundred and seventy million euros due to the Autonomous Community in application of the State's forthcoming budgets. So today, on Wednesday, 18 December, of the seven hundred million euros are paid two hundred and twenty-seven and pendant four hundred seventy-three million euros, of which more than half, three hundred sixty-six million euros, the Ministry has done nothing to deal with the debt it owes to our Autonomous Community. We're all aware of the problems that this can cause. First of all, the closing of the exercise. The Board has already announced that it is in an emergency that it obliges you to request credit policies in order to meet your payment obligations. It is generating tensions in the treasury and, as an immediate consequence, the Autonomous Community, which is still the best-paid provider in time. In fact, we're half the average payout to providers of the whole autonomous communities. The fact is that these treasury tensions are already beginning to translate into an extension of payment deadlines to suppliers, which, of course, is not something that satisfies no administration. We are faced with an urgent problem which, in addition to, in the short term, is generating these problems but which threatens a closure that was foreseeable to be overcome, with which we could, like last year, make sustainable investments — as, on the other hand, are doing many councils with that surplus — in matters of health, in social matters or in matters of education, as they have done in the course of this summer, but that is also at risk. That is precisely what the report by Airef on the budgets in Galicia says today in the budget debate. That risk of not having exceeded, and, if so, to see how the deficit rules are met, is directly derived from the central government's default of 200 million euros. We are, ladies and gentlemen, at the main cut in the autonomous spending of 2019, derived from the failure of the Socialist Government of 200 million euros; something in which all autonomous communities and even the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces coincide. Your president yesterday even said that the reduction of seven hundred and fifty-three million in the EVI collection for changes in the regulations that the Government did not impose on them in 2017 meant that the final liquidation of this year of the local authorities was negative because they were not admitted to that amount and they went from a positive balance of two hundred and seventy to a negative of four hundred and eighty-three. Mr. Knight, in this case Mr. Abel, as you see, also cries for the IVE. As I said, part was paid by real decree — this was the update of the deliveries to the account after much denying that it could not be paid by decree — but the fact is that with regard to the EVV the real decree is no longer useful. It's too late, even though there's a minister's commitment, in August 2018, to the Government in office at a meeting with the president: "This business commits itself to Feijó to reinstate the hundred and ninety-eight million VAT". Even though it's been a year and a half, it's still not solved. It's no longer possible for the real decree, basically because it would have to be settled the payment, which... ahead of fifteen days, the payment of VAT by companies, forward of fifteen days we're not here, because it's already passed on November 30, and so it's not going to enter an additional month, which was what was planned this year to compensate for what wasn't entered in 2017. That's what we're seeing as the worst prognosis, the government, Airef, is already ahead of us in their July report, and later in the October report: the government didn't plan to solve this problem. However, there are solutions, and in its Council, Junta has adopted two possible perfectly legal solutions that would allow, if there is political will, to remedy this issue. The first is, as you know, that the usual system of payment of resources to autonomous communities goes through two ways: the first is transfers, which are included in section 23 of the State budgets, "Autonomous financing", and there are funds for convergence, adequacy and guarantee. These are broad funds, but the budgets should be reformed. It's much better to do it through taxes. These do not appear in the budgets and what is done is that the state's income is diminished by releasing these amounts in favour of the autonomous communities. It may seem a bit complicated, but it's exactly the same thing you're doing to get your deliveries to the account, see a decrease in state income, and the corresponding transfer to the account to the communities. The EVV is a tax revenue and could therefore be done exactly the same as with the deliveries on account. That's the first solution we propose in our non-law proposal. And there's a second, which is more direct if that's not true: the State can be indebted to the figures it owes to the autonomous communities, transfer this amount to the autonomous communities and, the year in which it charged the tenth month of the VAT that year, amortize with those figures the debt that the State pays so that autonomous communities this year can have these funds available. They are simple, easy systems, and all we need is political will. There's even time. We wanted to bring this LNP to the last full because there's still time. Yesterday, the president of the Government told the president of the board that he wanted to reduce the territorial tension in Spain, and the president of the board told him that Galicia had a way of reducing the territorial tension that was to deal with the payment of the VAT, and now we're giving technical outputs that would allow it before December 30th. For the amounts referred to in compensation for being a fulfilling community there is also time. We have to convene the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, but they don't have to arrive before December 31 because, indeed, they were not included in the budgets and therefore they do not affect the closure of the 2019 fiscal year, which does not mean that we do not stop claiming them. With this, ladies and gentlemen, we make a reasonable request, and, in the interest of all Galicia, we long for the Government that emerges from the forthcoming elections — that will be ours — not have to suffer, like other governments, what is happening with one who is suffering the consequences of the failure of the former Government, with the paradox that it was who was in the former Government who carried out the measures of constraints of spending on the new Government that happened. It's a paradox sometimes given in politics. We hope that this will be supported by all groups because it is not only for the economic interest of the Autonomous Community, but also because it is the interest of all the parties that we will face in the forthcoming autonomous elections. All we have to do is put Galicia's common interest ahead of the support interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u262	Thank you, Mr. Puy. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u263	Thank you, President. As an initial question, the parliamentary group of the Galego Nationalist Block presented an amendment that we have already predicted what luck it will have. In any case, we shall be voting in favour of this initiative, as we have done on previous occasions, which cited the People's Party's own voice, with regard to a non-legislative proposal by the majority group and also with regard to its proposal in the debate of the state of the nation. We do so because it's obvious that the longer we spend on this issue the more problems we have in our economic management, and also because it constitutes a breach of our self-government to limit our ability to decide on our own economic decisions. In any case, we have some discrepancy or some way of seeing things differently in various aspects of those mentioned here and those collected on our own initiative. One of them, which we have thought about on other occasions, is the question of incentives. We have already been critical and critical with how those incentives were born to anticipate a political apology by the Rajoy government in front of a scenario in which it was foreseeable that it had opened a discharge to the non-compliant communities and that this posed a problem to the champion communities of the deficit. This is the case of Government Núñez Feijóo, who has tortured and tortured us in the last decade, subjecting us to this deficit framework rather than prioritising other issues such as the social rights of this country. Another discrepancy, which we also made yesterday at the end of budgetary debates, is that we are beginning to ask that, beyond bringing this kind of initiatives — which we believe to be positive — the People's Party is also going to clarify itself, because we have repeatedly heard Mr Martínez say how much the state would not have done. Mr Feijóo also said so, but yesterday they voted against precisely an amendment to the articulate that developed the Nationalist Block of Wales and proposed a pact not to diminish any of the necessary shares for social spending in the event of a reduction in some budget issue by next year 2020. They didn't want to, we don't know whether it's an economic model or whether it's because they really want to anticipate an apology for having to apply some treasure. In any case, we — I say — will vote favourably, although they also use this issue to increase the debt of the Autonomous Community repeatedly. We insist that we do it because of political responsibility, because of course, what it's a clairvoyance is all we've seen by the Government of Sanchez; first constituted, then in functions, then in the election campaign and now again stepping on the accelerator with this issue, as a further blackmail to try to form the government as soon as possible. We don't share that position. It seems to us a lack of respect for the self-government of this country and we are defending it with the same seriousness in this parliament as we will defend it in the State Parliament in the coming months. But there is another question on which we also disagree, and we call upon the People's Party itself to reflect on its obsession with this Council of Financial Policy, always argued that they would prefer to negotiate rather than go through other ways, such as the judiciary, and that they are those of the dialogue and we are radicals — says Mr. Núñez Feijóo, although we then vote in favour of this initiative—and so on. But, of course, we're getting to a point where we've been — as Mr. Fanda's advisor said earlier in an interview — eight months with this voodoo, it was almost time for a child to be born in the hospital in Verín before they had that service, but there was no result. Just like you're in an epistolar relationship with the government of the state with Alcoa, with respect to the MIR squares -- they've also sent you a missile -- and a long one. I understand, we like the epistolar genre and sometimes we practice it, even our Mr. Bará ended up sending a book to the former President of the Government, Mr. Mariano Rajoy. The epistollary relationship is not bad also in politics, but there comes a moment when we understand that the Galician Union must crash on the table and negotiate bilaterally, as a historical nation it is, with the central government. Because they're taking our hair, the first one, to the Government of Galician Union, but in general, to the whole country. We therefore believe that, beyond the meeting of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, it is necessary to place the financing system in general on the table. To that end, we demand more consistency and, once again, that they do not destabilize the legal way. It's something we've also debated in a way that's something in which the People's Party, the Government of Galician Union, initially declared in August that he was willing to come in but then changed his mind, once he made a legal report... We think that already, with all these precedents, there are more and more arguments on the table. We're also not asking them to declare the Welsh Republic, but you really seem to be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u264	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u265	...bringing more and more not to a banana republic as much, as Mr. Núñez Feijóo said this morning, but to almost a banana mini-deputy that takes its hair. So we think they should think about it and go one step further. But, in any case, even if the amendments are not accepted, we will again be on the side of this claim, which is fair and necessary before the permanent coat of hair of the Government of Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u266	Thank you. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Porritt.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u267	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. As has already been said here, this parliamentary group, in July this year, has tried to vote favourably on the initiative of the People's Group in this plenary on the transfer of various accounts to the Community, presenting for this an amendment which has not been admitted or negotiated. By then we had a number of questions raised. The first, which is evident, as this initiative is openly admitted, that we are not faced with a problem that affects Galicia alone, but the set of autonomous communities and administration, so the qualification, overused by the spokesmen of the People's Party, of discrimination against Galicia is not met. Just as it's not real that transfer that sometimes tries to make it a very bad central socialist government that punishes governments of other political formations, when it's known that it's a problem that affects the whole set of autonomous communities of all political colors. The second question is that it is a problem that arises with the regulatory change in the management of VAT, which was approved by the Government in 2016, and that I assumed that the settlement of this tax in 2019 is lower than the figure originally planned for communities. The rule was published in BOE on December 6, 2016 and Mr. Rajoy's motion of censure was in June 2018. It will not be wrong for the People's Party to argue to you the pity that part of that current momentum in this matter was not used in the 19 months since then, because it was a perfectly known matter for its effect. Even at the meeting between Mr. Feijóo and Mr. Montoro, in January 2018, this was found with a good understanding attitude of the German Government. It is also surprising that the so-called concrete solution that the Galician People's Party is now trying to give to the issue of that monthly VAT and that it covers nothing less than the set of all the state's autonomous and local administrations, so the solution must also be consensual, joint and shared. Basically, we forget an important question: we are not before a fully operational Government of Spain, but before a government in functions with taxed powers. If this Government was operating when it introduced the Government's General Budget Bill for 2019, which had come to resolve this issue, but — as it is known — could not be approved by the votes against, among others, the People's Party. When the Government of Sánchez legally establishes an exit, the Welsh Members of the People's Group voted against it and, since it cannot be arranged for having a Government in office, the Galician Union is making a scandal. The question is: do you want to solve the problem or do you want to extract political revenue? Are you looking for solutions in the interest of all the Greeks or only in the instrumentation of an exceptional situation with a Government in functions for the benefit of the support? Because only with a full government in Spain is it possible to resolve this demand. Are you for work? If so, make it easier for a Government in Spain because only then can this issue be properly addressed. [[Murmurs.]] The truth is, it seems to be a pure political campaign. A campaign to erode rather than solve. It seems to indicate that there is a need for legal amendment, such as Article 71 of the draft law amending Article 61 of the rules of the VAT, which established that the declaration-liquidation of the month of November should be presented, unlike the remaining eleven months, in the first 20 natural days of December. It also exposes many doubts about the way in which the State is indebted to the amount of VAT accounts and which, as the same initiative demonstrates, is conditional upon subsequent adoption of a proper legal mechanism which cannot be guaranteed by the same futureable character. With regard to the request to convene the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u268	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u269	...it would seem logical to wait for government training, whose representatives have already announced that autonomous and local funding would be one of the priority issues. Already in the amendment tabled in July by this parliamentary group, it was requested that the appropriate legal mechanisms be promoted to resolve the issue of the monthly VAT. That is why, as he argued and defended himself, it was necessary for a President of the Government of Spain to be elected by the Congress of Deputies, an issue which, as you know, could not be done in the past months and is currently in negotiations. So, in the same dynamic of then, we present an amendment that you all know. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u270	Thank you, Mrs. Porritt. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u271	Good morning, gentlemen. Let's get back to this again. I would also like to recall the basis on which we present a bill for this same matter on November 12 of this same year. We denounce the lack of political culture which has certain parties and which leads to the fact that most policies do not give rise to the fact that in recent years, the period of government in function is becoming more and more time-consuming. Furthermore, this compromises the constitutional architecture designed by the normal functioning of the State of autonomy, in such a way that, in the face of the anomalies in the normal functioning and in the existence of the Executive, they eventually affect the functioning of the Autonomous Community, which is particularly serious because autonomous communities — also ours among them — in some matters, with these budgets, provide services of a fundamental nature to society as a whole. This situation, far from being cut off by the responsible parties or, in general, by the House as a whole, was repeatedly used in recent years to cross reproaches, particularly between the People's Party and the Socialist Party, as we have just seen in the beginning of the debate on this very initiative. Even as we could see in the last few months, to threaten with cuts in public services in the event that the majority are not composed to appoint new governments — and so on — we have come to question the payrolls of public officials, and so forth. All this, to achieve ends that are alien to what must be the very function of self-financing, which is the ordinary functioning of our country's self-government institution. We thought — and we said it at that time — that there were not enough conjunctural solutions. Conjunctural solutions would give rise to the next year and the next year, if there were persisting or repeating government situations in function, we would again be in the same situation. And we were talking about what we were talking about because we saw how over the last five years the situations of interinternity, of government in functions, were getting bigger and bigger. And, therefore, legal certainty had to be given, the communities themselves had to be equipped with the propagation of autonomy in order to be able to provide services, without being also pending whether there was a Government in the State or not. That's why I had a structural solution. What was the structural solution? To take over the Government so that, among the functions it had while it was in operation, it was perfectly responsible for making the accounts and carrying out all the operations necessary to prevent an economic collapse as a result of the existence of that government itself in functions. To that end, we present in this House a bill that provides for the reform of Article 21, creating a section 3a) of the Spanish Government's Law, which allowed a Government in functions, without any doubt, to approve the regulatory provisions necessary to ensure the regular financial functioning of autonomous communities in the concepts of the updating of deliveries to the account, the return of months dependent on previous exercises and the amounts due, in their case, to the economic incentive to comply with the objectives of budgetary stability, public debt and the rule of expenditure. Well, what did the People's Party say when you voted against accepting this bill? He said it wasn't necessary because they were already paying the amounts due. It was one of the arguments and it is in the Journal of Sessions, I was consulting before this intervention. The second argument is that it was not technically good because it was intended to solve with a general standard what was a point problem, only this year and only with respect to a certain monthly EVV.. Well, we already predicted at that time, as in Marea — and we didn't need to be diviners — that this subject would continue to collide, that it would last in time, and here we are. We proposed a non-conjunctural solution, but structural solution. If this proposal comes out unanimously and leaves the request to the Government of the State, even if the state gives us the reason — which we think we have, we solve the problem for this year, but the question remains if this happens again in the future. We wanted a solution that would end this problem, which would prevent this situation from becoming a part of the cross between parties and the set of threats that can sometimes be seen if most parliamentary parties are not raised. Well, we're looking for a structural solution that, in addition to that legal certainty and which, therefore, allows us to fully regulate the decision that is made and that is not taken. That is, by means of his judicial custody, because it was also discussed — some community came to put it on the table — to bring this issue to the courts and whether or not there was a legal basis for it. Well, we wanted to make sure that there would be a legal basis in the future. We are faced with an initiative that is worse than presented in its day because, at best, it would only solve the problem for this year, but not of a structural nature. Still, we want to support it because we think it's good for the economic interests and therefore the social interests of our country. But we do ask the rapporteur to at least acknowledge that the bill he presented in Marea on his day was a good idea to solve this, not now, but forever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u272	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Parliamentary Group on the Left, Mr Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u273	Good morning. I never thought I'd start an intervention here saying this: you're absolutely right about the Galician board in the central government claim of the 300 million euros for the update... of the advances on the 2019 account and of the 200 million for the liquidation of a 2017 IVE monthly that left the Government of Mariano Rajoy alone. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You're right and therefore you have our support in claiming the immediate transfer of quantities still pending by these concepts. [[Protests.]] They are resources that belong to us, they are included in the 2019 budgets and it is not acceptable for the Government, even if it is in office, not to solve this problem that affects not only our country, but the whole set of autonomous communities in the common system and local corporations. [[Applause]] Well, this is the soft part now... because on the initiative of the People's Party it includes another game that has little consistency and, in fact, none of it has been included in the 2019 budgets. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I read the PNL's explanatory statement: "The Government refuses to pay the incentives to Galicia for good fiscal performance in the years 2017 and 2018, incentives that it amounts to 170 million euros." I have to admit that it cost me a lot of work to find the legal basis for the claim. And it's no less, gentlemen. Mr. Puy knows her. The reference is the additional provision one hundred and fifty-first of the state's general budgets for 2018 by Montoro, which are still in force through its extension. I will read literally — a part — so that there are no interpretative doubts: "The Government, prior report of the Tax and Financial Policy Council and the Independent Tax Responsibility Authority, may agree to the approval of incentives to territorial administrations depending on the degree of compliance with the tax rules and the objectives assigned." Mr. Puy, could you make available to the House the preliminary report of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council that regulates the provision? Could this House know Airef's opinion on the matter? I'll make it easier. Why not hand us the writing you presented to the Galician Council on the Tax and Financial Policy Council for this body to issue the preliminary report? He won't hand it over because he doesn't exist. Neither the Board submitted any proposals nor the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council discussed the issue, nor did Airef issue any reports. It's all an advertising and propaganda operation that only exists in the convenient media. To ask the Government to immediately pay EUR 170 million is directly to tell you that it is in prevarication. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] But there's more. The first 100th provision says that once the previous reports are issued and assuming that they are favourable, the Government may agree to approval. That is, there is no imperative mandate, there is discretion of the Government. As it is noted in the drafting of the always clear-hand provision of the Minister Montoro. That is why it is not surprising that, in the absence of pre-emptive reports and that, therefore, the debate has not even begun for the Government to decide whether to agree to approve this mechanism, the Union is already exaggerating EUR 170 million. The origin of that story has already been explained by the spokesperson for the People's Party, but I want to say something else. I shall read or say at your disposal in the last paragraph: "These incentives may affect in whole or in part the amount of the credits that the State holds, as well as its financial conditions." I don't know if you understand. This paragraph does not speak of negative liquidations but of the set of debts that autonomous communities have with the Central Government. Clearly, it is the door that opened Montoro for the forgiveness of the debts of the autonomous communities with the central government, of all! And that is the question, the Galician People's Party, who voted in this House against a proposal that our group has tabled by proposing the opening of that process of withdrawal, is it in favour or against? Let's tell the truth: this insistent demand of the Board highlights the falsity of his speech on austerity. President Feijóo always boasted that he was a strict fulfilment of budgetary discipline, because at the end of the punishment there would be a reward. Now it's shown that this was false, cropping more than anyone gets prized, only got punishment. It's over. The Union demonstrates expertise in the formulation of conflicts with the Central Government when the People's Party does not rule; it demonstrates expertise for advertising and propaganda operations, but not to really manage our country's interests. I end by saying that we will call for a point of vote to support the fair claim point that the country has, and that we refuse, comrades and opposition partners, to participate in publicity and propaganda operations of the People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u274	Thank you, Mr. Lago. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u275	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Lago, is it a pity that you don't make the final step of supporting something from the PP, because you know what you're asking to vote for? Point 2 says: "Declares its support for the Galician Union's claim to the Government of Spain for an urgent call from the Tax and Financial Policy Council with an agenda including a specific point to address this." That's what you don't want to vote for. You read the explanatory statement and haven't read that we're asking for it. [[Applause]] He says there's no Airef report. But if Airef has reported that we meet the deficit of the spending rule in the years 2017 and 2018 perfectly! If we're meeting the deficit! That's what Airef's report calls for. And the only thing that doesn't meet is there are two differences: one, that governs the Socialist Party and not the People's Party, that paid those amounts, and the other difference is that the Socialist Party doesn't bring together the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, and that's why we're asking for it. I believe that you on this particular subject have a bad conscience, you know that these compensations are the forgiveness of the debt that the Bipartite has left us and you don't want to admit that in 2009 they spent 1,600 million euros that are still paying for Junta. But, well, the problems of consciousness each one solves them as he can in intimacy. Let's see, I'm especially sorry, Mrs. Porrit -- and I tell the Socialist Group in general, taking advantage of what I think is complete -- these are your apologies. The first is that, as Mr. Lago has just said, Galicia is particularly damaged by not charging, because it is one of the two that could access these compensations to which we are referring; therefore, it is especially damaged. In fact, the EVI affects all autonomous communities. Then he talks about the subject of the budget. Mr. Sánchez's state budget is not that he had not left because of the PP, it was not because of those who supported the motion of censure, who have stopped supporting the Government in the budgets, who are the same as those you want to deal with the investment and who are not left. [[Murmurs.]] It's ERC's fault, not the People's Party. Let's stop fooling around now because I'm really putting out the government's PP and saying that then they put the budgets on it... you play it with ERC, if that's who they want to rule with. [[Applause]] To say that the government is not operational after what happened with the advance deliveries to the account is funny, because you yourself have been denied. And finally, he says we're partying. Look, it's so simple -- to solve it -- that we stop doing partisanism as they pay; the day they pay ended the claim, as simple as that. [[Applause]] What's behind it? What's behind this is that you started with a deficit target of 1.3, after the motion of censure went up to 1.8, in the stability program Brussels sent the 2, then Airef predicted the 2.1 and yesterday the Banco de España prognostica the 2.5 deficit in 2019. That's what's behind this, that the socialist government is transferring their deficit to the autonomous communities, not giving them the money they have right, and that's indecent and you defend it. Because there is an important difference between the attitude of different socialist parties. What did Lambán say? "May they pay us what they owe us." What did Susana Díaz say, supporting Parliament, the opposition, an initiative similar to that of the People's Party and Citizens? He said, "We will have a responsible opposition and we will support issues that are sensible." That's what the socialist opposition in Andalusia said when most of the center right asked for the opposition's support. Monica Oltra, Pilar Costa, Balearics, they all exaggerate the money. The difference is that in Galicia anyone who claims to be president of the Socialist Party, instead of saying that it is a fair claim, says that Feijóo is counting a film, demands the cessation of the owner of Fairy, then says that he is doing a theater, leaves the government delegate and says that we look like a begging order and finally says that this debt is a farce and that it is finally a continuous cry from Feijóo. Ladies and gentlemen, this is amazing, I insist, the state is transferring its deficit to the autonomous communities; we are paying it with the money corresponding to the Greek board and public services the extra expenditure of election campaigns and in favour of Mr Sánchez's investment. That's absolutely indecent.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u276	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u277	In the long term they're doing a very bad service to the autonomic system, because they're justifying, as they saw in the intervention of the Block, that kind of reaction by a lot of people against the autonomic system. [[Murmurs.]] I insist, this is regrettable and the Socialist Party of Galicia supports it. Impressive!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u278	Thank you, Mr. Puy. By the way, about the amendments... I don't understand. [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Don't you accept them? Okay. [[Refusal.]] Thank you. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u279	We shall proceed to the vote on non-law proposals. Close the doors, please. We begin by voting the Non-Legal Proposal of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Ms Maria Luisa Pierres. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Luisa Pierres López and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia for the eradication of infra-vivals in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes in favour, 36. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u280	We now vote for the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, which has defended Mrs Rodríguez Barreira. The amendment of the Common Left Group is not accepted. We vote. Voting of the motion for a non-law of the G.P.Popular de Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado and seven other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Ministry of Development in connection with the transport network of goods from the north-west peninsula, as well as the development of the trans-European transport network. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 68. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u281	We now vote for the parliamentary group... or do we vote for it at the end? We voted for it at the end because they're still sharing the... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So we are now voting, fourthly, on proposal No. 4 from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado. I'm sorry, we asked for a point of order. Do you accept the point vote? How many points are there? [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Let's vote for the first point. Voting of point 1 of the Proposal is not G.P.'s law. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela and da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in the field of mental health. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 69. The voting is positive. This point is therefore adopted 1.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u282	We vote for the rest of the points of this non-law proposition. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. the Socialists of Galicia, except point 1, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of mental health. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes in favour, 36. The result of the vote is negative. This non-law proposal is therefore rejected, except for point 1.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u283	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Olalla Rodil. No amendments were tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members, on the opening by the Galician Council of a process of dialogue with the trade union organizations representing the professor to recover the school hours of 18 and 21 hours. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes in favour, 36. The voting is negative As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u284	Vote of the Non-Law Proposition of the G. P. Joint Left Group, at the initiative of Da María de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and Da Luca Chao Pérez. Amendments to the Parliamentary Group on the German Nationalist Block and to the Socialist Parliamentary Group are accepted. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Joint Left Group, at the initiative of Da María de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and Da Luca Chao Pérez, on the actions to be carried out by the Italian Government in relation to the cultural sector. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes in favour, 36. The voting is negative This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u285	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Pedro Puy Fraga. Mr Lago asked for a point of vote. Mr. Puy, do you accept a point vote? [[Assentment.]] Yes, I accept the vote by point. How many points does this proposal have? Three. Do you want to separate point 1? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, he wants to separate point 2. [[Refusal.]] Let us first vote on point 2. Voting of point 2 of the Proposal is not G.P.'s law. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Pedro Puy Fraga and 14 other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament in relation to the demands of the Galician Council to the Central Government regarding the income of the value added tax accounts for 2017 pending liquidation, as well as the approval of the incentives to Galicia for good fiscal performance in the years 2017 and 2018. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 46; abstentions, 23. The voting is positive. Point 2 of this non-law proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u286	Let us now vote on the remaining points of the proposal. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, except point 2, at the initiative of Mr. Pedro Puy Fraga and 14 other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament in relation to the claims of the Galician Union to the Central Government relating to the income of the value added tax accounts for 2017 pending settlement, as well as the approval of the incentives for tax performance to Galicia in the years 2017 and 2018. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 55; abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u287	Mrs Pontón, do you still keep us voting in the ballot box? Do you think he's gonna...? All right, so we're going to vote. [[Laughter]] Come on, perfect. Two articles of the regulation -- not one -- protect her. No, no, I've protected two articles of the regulation; in that sense, we're not doing anything that's not contemplated. So this is going to be a vote in the ballot box. I ask the Secretary to call the honourable Members. Voting in the Ornament of the Proposition is not the law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantiños and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece regarding the decision to suspend the pediatric guards and the Parish service at the Comarcal Hospital in Verín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u288	Thank you. All Members and Members have exercised the right to vote. We're counting.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u289	Well, the count is as expected : 33 votes in favour; 36 votes against. [[Laughter]] Therefore, the non-law proposal is rejected. Now we're suspending the session. We'll resume the session at 5:00 p.m. They are all invited for two reasons: one, because today we celebrate Christmas and because tomorrow Parliament is 38 years old. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u290	We resumed the session, with point four, interpellations. Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo and two other MPs from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Government of Greece in relation to the situation of the shipbuilding sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u291	To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u292	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Counselor. The Socialists today again bring to this parliament our concern about the situation of the Galician industry, a concern that is growing every day over the industrial crisis that our country is suffering, a concern that is now further aggravated by yesterday's approval of the budgets of the Galician Union by 2020, budgets that do not offer the opportunities for the future necessary for our youth, to enable it to develop its vital project. Counsellor, in the processing of these budgets they had the opportunity to change their industrial policy failure. They had the opportunity to change, to collect the approaches presented by opposition groups, to offer a revitalizing project, a project that Galicia needs to meet the challenges of the present and also the challenges of the future in our country. You, Counsellor, for almost eleven years of Mr.Núñez Feijóo's government, have not had industrial policy among their priorities; an industrial policy that has situated Galicia at 197 over 268 European territories, sixteen posts less than three years ago, and occupying the tenth position of all the autonomous Spanish communities. Counsellor, employment is the second major concern of citizenship and the first major failure to manage the Galician Union, which in its macroeconomic forecast for 2020 promises us that it will continue to fail, and to generate jobs, quality jobs, we have to have a strong industrial fabric. A strong industrial fabric, a stable job, allows us to establish population and reverse the demographic indentation of our country. It was a missed opportunity, Counselor, and with these accounts you promise to follow us on the same path, with a general reduction in the most important games. Budgets that, in a full industrial crisis resulting from decarbonisation, reduce the resources needed to help the energy transition and support the regions affected by the industrial crisis; budgets that refuse to bet on economic modernization and industrial employment; budgets that reduce the shares that could most help the economic and industrial fabric in the context of economic difficulties predicted by Brexit, the tariff war between the United States and China or the tightening of the industrial transition set by the European Union. A government that lacks its own energy model to deal with the industrial crisis, caused by decarbonization, which has led companies to announce the early closure of the Meirama and Bridges. A government without planning to deal with the situation of these companies, a situation that cannot — could not — be unknown to the Galician Union, since it was the two most polluting plants. The non-existent industrial policy that has led to over the past eleven years, the Government of Greece is leading us to the fact that today we have 4,400 less busy in the industry than we had in 2009. The industrial production index in the month of October in Galicia, on the average of the year, presents a negative rate of -5,5, being the second worst evolution of all autonomous communities. In exports, in the course of the year, DataComex, from January to September 2019, tells us that the annual rate of variation has fallen by 6.1%, only behind Ceuta, Melilla and the Balearic Islands; that in 2018 in Galicia 509 companies were formed less than in 2016; that it fails to capture private investment, merely following Spain's growth, while we export qualified jobs and export capital. Finally, a German government cannot increase employment and productivity, making it impossible to gain competitiveness, and unable to boost exports to other markets. In view of this situation, you voted 'no' to the 88 amendments tabled by the Socialists in industrial policy and employment, amendments that would mobilise, together with the cross-cutting amendment, a total of EUR 188 million. Counsellor, these nearly eleven years of advertising and propaganda policy that we've been accustomed to have one of their most illustrative examples of this advertising and propaganda with the off-season on public television for President Feijóo to present the Mexican company Pemex, as if it were the presentation of that non-existent industrial plan for Galicia. Remember, Counselor? I'm sure you remember. In the spring of 2012 President Feijóo returned from a trip to Mexico with Mariano Rajoy, advancing a historic opportunity for the Welsh naval sector, both for the private in Vigo and for the public in Ferrol, by the hands of the Mexican company Pemex. Remember, Counselor? President Feijóo in that same year, at the end of 2012, solemnized in Raxoi's palace the charge of two fleets of Pemex for the Greek shipyards, formalizing that strategic alliance that the president of the Galician Union had defined as one of the best economic and employment news of recent times, and these contracts are endorsed not only financially, but are endorsed by conviction and realism. A PP government in Galicia that, in its usual image of advertising and propaganda, announced to us the construction of ships, a logistics base for distribution of Pemex hydrocarbons to Europe in the port of Punta Langosteira, two fleets, three tank vessels, a tuna tanker, a ship supporting oil platforms, a hotel ship, the fleet's renovation, two chemists and several tugmen. Anyway, two fleets, that was the result, two fleets. [[Applause]] In 2013, in another precipitate, Pemex announced the entry into the capital of Barreras, with 51% control of the shares, with the announcement of establishing a strategic alliance that the Galician Union pushed with the oil tanker. Thus, an extension of the capital of EUR 5.1 million was made, which was launched completely by Pemex, to save the company from the bad situation it was suffering. The crusader of reality, unfortunately, ended up being that, although Pemex announced the construction of a third fleet in September 2015 at the Barreras yard, in November 2016 it already stated that it would not build it and that it would paralyze the future — and also not started — logistics base of Punta Langosteira, in the Coruña. The concrete reality was two constructed fleets, the only result of the gigantic propaganda operation. Seven years after those announcements, the Pemex story ended and Pemex decided to abandon Barreras and Galicia. Since then, and making a little history of this messy situation, we have to say that on September 26, this year, Ritz-Carlton has come into question of dissolution by computing own funds of less than 5 million euros, that is, in less than half of his social capital. On October 2nd, Sons of J. Barreras applied for accreditors' pre-competition, November 22nd, the suspension and cancellation of the ongoing project took place. Ferri Armas construction is suspended. November 26th Barriers calls for dissolution. On December 1st, the ship Ritz-Carlton was recruiting troops to take effective control over 75% of the shareholding, through the assignment of Pemex and Albacora rights, yes, without contemplating the sale of the yard and without returning a single euro. The latest news is that they now ask the Greek Government for EUR 40 million in full to finish the ship that is already under construction, the Evrima cruise. Of those millions who are asking for the full loss, 54 seem to correspond to an overcost on the initial budget, of which half are attributable — according to statements — to Ritz-Carlton himself. And February 2nd, as you well know, ends the pre-competition. Counsellor, we know, through the news in the newspapers almost every day, that you have had a very important number of meetings at the headquarters of the Ministry of Industry with all the parties involved: the Central Government, the Union, Pymar, Cesce and Pemex. We therefore call on you this time in this Parliament, Mr Counsellor, to tell us, given the strategic importance of the naval sector, that assessment makes the Government of the current situation of Barreras and that conclusions, measures or strategies have been fought at these meetings in order to seek a favourable outcome to this industrial crisis. Nothing else on this first round and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u293	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u294	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, it's going to be more anachronistic! I understand perfectly that you try to justify the unjustifiable, I understand that you try to justify the President of the Government, I understand that you try to justify how there is an energy policy that is penalizing the industry of this country and I understand perfectly that you come here to make lawyers of the lost causes, but, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, if you want to talk about industrial policy, I have no problem, we talk about industrial policy. [[Murmurs.]] What I can move you is that, of course, this government is concerned about the industrial crisis that is causing the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, of course we are very concerned. And we're very worried because the government doesn't have an industrial agenda and we're very worried because the government's energy policy is penalizing and discriminating industry, simply using as an excuse the fight against climate change. And you, instead of defending the interests of the Greeks, instead of defending the interests of the Galician industry, come here trying to transfer to the Galician Union a number of responsibilities that are not of your competence. Because you know perfectly well that energy policy is competition, from the point of view of the regulation of the electricity system, precisely the Government of Spain. I am deeply sorry that you are trying to move Galicia to a situation that is generating the Government of Spain. The Government of Spain is generating uncertainty, the Government of Spain is generating legal insecurity, the Government of Spain is generating distrust of investors and consumers, and unfortunately the Government of Spain is penalizing our country's industry. And that's why I'm very surprised that you, instead of talking about these things, are going to try to transfer a reality that is not true, because you, if you want to talk about industrial policy and energy policy, should try to explain why a company, after investing 217 million euros precisely to adapt the central to the new EU Emissions Directive, is being penalized and is trying to force its closure, and is trying its government. And you should try to explain to the Greeks why in Europe there are 149 thermal power stations operating, with a decarbonization horizon in the year 2050, and why in Spain we have to disconnect the thermal power stations simply by an ideological theme of your party. That's what you should come here to explain if you really want to talk about what the situation is from the energy point of view and from the industrial point of view. And if I can tell you that the clear employment that is the main concern of this government, and that's why this government is in line with economic and social agents precisely to work for quality employment, and that's why we were the ones that this government — together with the UGT unions, the Labour Commissions and the employer — has come to an agreement for the technological transformation of our country and for an agreement for an orderly and fair energy transition. And you're turning your back on the industry, on the job of this country. And so -- I insist -- it seemed like you brought here the speech you used in the Committee on Budgets, which I think is very good, but the question was about Barriers and it wasn't about industrial policy. But, as you can see, I'm happy to give you that answer. Just as I am and I would be delighted if you had explained to the Alcoa workers why the Central Government, the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and the Galician Socialist Party were giving their quota to the Alcoa workers, why they were giving their backs to the workers of the electro-intensive companies and why they did not assume their responsibility to give a competitive electric price so that Alcoa could continue to function and in Galicia they could continue to produce primary aluminum. Instead of giving these answers and above all concrete and not using excuses from his Government, I believe that the Socialist Party of Galicia should dedicate itself to defending the interests of workers, the interests of industry in Galicia. [[Applause]] But let me welcome the Socialist Party when he wants to talk about the naval sector. I know that this is simply a word, because unfortunately the facts of the Socialist Party of Galicia and the facts of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party do not accompany the naval sector in Galicia. Look, Navantia is a public shipyard in the state, which you rule. He knows that Navantia Ferrol needs work load for the next two to three years and does not cause the paralysing of the auxiliary industry in Ferrolterra. And that means ensuring the order of a new logistic vessel while the plate cut of the F-110 frigates is not started, just as you promised. He knows that we urgently need to develop the necessary infrastructures and the productive processes that lead the yard to gain positions in the factory of the future. And that means, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, that the advertised investments are actually executed. He also knows that the Galician Union has done its homework. We support innovation, with the combined Star 4.0 and Nautilus units, which Navantia is developing in collaboration with the Galician Union and the University of Coruña and Aimen. We are supporting training to count on the most skilled workers, with a specific plan for the naval sector, where we have invested 16 million euros. We're directly supporting employment, with orders like the fleet of Pemex for Navantia, which I assumed more than a million hours of work in the Ferrol River. And we're supporting the job, Your Honor, with the impulse of new business like the marine wind. The question, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, is whether the Socialist Government has the will to do the same, that's the question. Because, of course, the history of these months leaves much to be desired. They promised that the frigates would start building as soon as possible, but the reality is that it took ten months to unlock the contract and now we continue without spending the 250 million euros that Rajoy's Government left in the 2018 budgets. They promised some intermediate work while they didn't start the construction of the frigates, but the reality is that now they say it's not possible. They also promised to get the bet that the People's Party's Government made with the marine wind, but the reality, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, is that they took off the burden of work from Navantia Fene to take her to Cadiz. Finally, there is a non-existent bet by the Socialist Party on the naval sector. As for Barreras, Your Honor, I think that in the case of Barreras it is time to give answers and stop turning around. Junta wants to make a decision and knows that this is not possible without knowing the findings of the yard audit and the exact terms of the Ritz-Carlton agreement with shareholders. [[Murmurs.]] So they have to clarify whether we are meeting the priority we set when we started this process, which is only to guarantee the viability of the yard in the short, medium and long term. They're wrong to think, of course, that it's all done to finish a boat. For that, of course, they won't count on the Galician Union. What I can tell you is that the disposition of the board is absolute to look for solutions, we've moved it to the rest of the meetings that are being held. And also in coordination with the Ministry of Industry, we are promoting the meetings that are necessary to find a solution that brings stability to the future of Barreras; that's right, as long as workers and auxiliary industries are taken into account, because that's our main priority. Finally, Your Honor, there is a clear bet on the side of the Galician Union. We will be next to the German naval sector by doing what it has to do and, of course, by giving concrete solutions. The Barreras alliance with Pemex played — and you know it — a decisive role in the recovery of the yard in very difficult times, when the yard was practically in liquidation and there was no workload. You should start over there, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, you should start over there: a yard that was out of work. I think the only thing they're doing -- and I'm deeply sorry about it -- is trying to discredit the sector, and so, of course, they're not going to find the support neither of the Galician Union nor of the workers themselves. Pemex's commitment to Galicia has always started in the sphere of state relations between Spain and Mexico, always! Pemex is a public company and both the Calderon governments have been involved — after Peña Nieto — and, as you know, now with a new mandate López Obrador. I remind you, therefore, that they were not relations with a determined government but that they were always in search of commitment to the naval sector. That's why I regret your position, your group's position, giving your back to the industry and unfortunately also giving your back to the Welsh naval sector. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u295	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u296	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, I come here not to justify anyone, the shipyards and the situation of the Greek shipyards are also industrial politics, and therefore I come here obviously about industrial politics and that's what I ask you about. And in addition, I have just made an exposition which, of course, I also did yesterday in the defence of budgets, because that's what we socialists believe about the lack of industrial policy that has taken the German Government for these eleven years, and which has no forecast for the crises that are taking place. [[Applause]] By the way, you're talking about my intervention being a little anachronistic, but, well, I don't know if you've been more focused, I think it's still a lot more, at last, thick. And I ask you — since you touch this issue — yes, Counsellor: what is the energy policy of the Galician Union? Tell me, what is it? [[Murmurs.]] When will these energy guidelines presented in this House be published in April 2018? When? Tell me! Answer me! When? What is the energy policy of this Galician Union? [[Murmurs.]] Actually, you just had a meeting with the Minister of Energy Transition, where he was also President of Galicia. Can you really say here, at parliamentary headquarters, that the Government of Spain wants to close the thermal power stations? Can you really say that? [[Murmurs.]] Man, please, it seems to me a bit of political cynicism, with all due respect. Anyway... finally! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, what is real and what is real... If you want to intervene... Well, don't call on me, 'cause we're usually questioning the government's opposition, not the government's opposition. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I know they don't like what I tell them, but, well, if they don't like it, it's reality, and you have to be able to fit in. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Well, I ask you, Counselor: where was the German Government when Mr. Rajoy cancelled 72 million euros from Plan Miner to Cerceda and the Bridges? Where was the German Government? [[Murmurs.]] At that time they said nothing, 72 million euros that were lost to Galicia, to Galicia!, regardless of whether at that time — and now also — there are socialist governments in Cerceda as well as in the Bridges. And that's your difference: that you differ according to who rules in every place. [[Applause]] Why didn't you include the Greek Town Councils, why didn't you include fourteen Greek Town Councils, who could do so, in the aid that made the Government of the State available to support mining locations in 2014? Explain me! Explain it here in this House! Explain it to the population of Cerceda, explain it to the population of the Bridges and all its surroundings! Tell them: 72 million euros plus the lack of inclusion of these municipalities during these aids for mining localities. Counselor, since we're talking a little bit about everything, well, I've talked about some things and you've even increased it more, but, in any case, since we've talked a little bit about everything, I'd also like you to answer me here: what have you done with Naturgy? When are you going to invest those hundred million that you promised to counter a bit the loss of the Meirama thermal power plant? Tell me, Counselor! I guess something you guys are gonna do. And I remind you that you only share shares in several companies with Naturgy, so they're your partners, they're partners, and so you should know something. But, well, in any case, Counselor, what we are most concerned about, the Socialist Party, is that you are answering here today what agreements, strategies, what visibility, what light you see for this yard to have viability, and not only of present but of future. In that case you'll have our tender hand, without any doubt. And it's more, Counselor, after this interrogation you know perfectly well that a motion must be made and that is sustained in this interpellation. I invite you to agree with us on this motion so that there will be a unanimous agreement in the necessary terms so that there will be no doubt that the whole Government and all parliamentary groups in the Welsh House will no doubt support, without any doubt, against anyone — including the Government of the State — the shipyards and, in this case, the shipyard Sons of Barreras. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u297	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Close this interpelment, economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u298	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, political cynicism. I'm deeply sorry that you use that expression when we're talking about over two hundred jobs in the Navy, over seven hundred jobs in the Bridges, over two hundred jobs in Cerceda, more than five hundred jobs in the Ence and a whole conservation industry, all threatened by a disorderly energy policy of the Government of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. I'm very sorry, because workers and families don't deserve it. [[Applause]] Look, energy policy, from the point of view of system regulation, knows perfectly well that it's a competition from the state, it knows perfectly well. And, therefore, he knows perfectly well that the Government is the one with responsibility and the tools to be able to give a solution to electrointensive companies. He knows perfectly well that the Government has the tools to allow the approval of the Statute of electro-intensive companies and therefore also use all mechanisms to ensure that Alcoa-San Cibrao workers have an answer. And the Alcoa-San Cibrao workers who can't admit are more excuses, excused by a government in functions that can perfectly take those measures and excuses using the European Union. That's energy policy, that's industrial policy. It's also energy policy, it's industrial policy, the decision that the Government makes, because it's a government decision, just as they're using and deciding on other governments, giving a solution to the thermal power plant of the Bridges. See, the European Commission is marking in the Green Pact that the energy transition cannot generate unemployment and that the energy transition cannot be a loss of opportunity for current workers, and in Europe there are 149 thermal power stations that are operating in a decarbonisation context and here in Spain the Government has unilaterally decided not to take any kind of measures that allow Europe to continue to produce in Spain the thermal power plants that have made investments to comply with the emissions of the industrial emissions directive. So there's a responsibility, there's a government co-responsibility in the situation that the bridge workers are going through. Just like there's a responsibility for legal insecurity on the part of the workers of Ence, because the Government also made a surprising decision: to move on to a demand and a decision that had been made by the state's lawyer as well, allowing for enlargement. And the government is putting more than a hundred canning companies in public maritime-terrestrial control simply because the government is changing its position and criteria and thus threatening employment. There's a threat of industrial and energy dismantling in Galicia caused by its party. What I wonder is what the Socialist Party in Galicia will do to defend the interests of the Greeks, to defend the interests of industry in Galicia. That's my question, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. [[Applause]] And, of course, let's talk about the naval sector; I pick up your glove, of course. Because what it means to adopt agreements to jointly defend the situation of the industrial sector by the parliamentary groups and the Council of Galicia, and in this case, in particular, the situation of the Barreras shipyard, will always have the hand held by the Government. So let's agree to that position. What I can tell you is that the Galician Union is going to be part of the Barreras solution; we did it at its time in 2013 and we will do it again now. But what we're going to do is work precisely to take into account Barriers workers and auxiliary companies. You know we've already made decisions and you know that this government has approved operations, a loan line for the auxiliary industry, just to give you an answer about their situation. And I can transfer that we even approved yesterday in the Igape operations in favour of eleven companies in the naval sector located in the Vigo and Ferrol rivers precisely by granting a total of 6.2 million euros in loans, supporting Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo, 925 jobs in the naval sector in Galicia. So we'll be in the solution. It is true that today they lost a good opportunity to explain why the Socialist Party in Galicia assured on November 22 that there was a solution for Barriers. That's irresponsible, making announcements when they're not even at the meetings. Seriously. If you want to bet on the ship, here's a government that's doing it; if you really want to bet on the Barriers workers, you'll join the position of the Galician Union and, of course, you'll have your hand held to look for those solutions, because that's what we've been working on from the very first moment. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u299	Thank you, Counselor. Interpellation by Mr Francisco Casal Vidal and three other Members of the G.P. Mixed, on the policy of the Greek Government in connection with the crisis caused by the closure of the coal thermal power plants
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u300	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u301	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. Well, an initial point -- no, it's okay, it's okay, we're kind of a party today, although the matter is serious and important -- an initial point. Here, as the president said, the inquiry goes about what the German Government is going to do. If you're going to answer me what Pedro Sanchez's government doesn't, then I'm going to the scene. Because if you evade your responsibility, because I refuse to make my inquiry. Of course — and you may know by the committees — few more than we criticise many of the Spanish Government's actions in the energy issue; for example, the last auction of interruption, which, surprisingly, when we criticized it, the Joint Left-United Group could say that it should be lowered further; we were really surprised; I don't know what the Alcoa workers will think when they hear that intervention. But I'm here to talk, at least try to talk about what he does or what he should do to the Galician Union. See if you answer me about it, because, Counselor, you say you don't have to be cynical. You know that the problem of the thermal power plant at the Bridges doesn't have much to do with the government of the State, it has to do with other things. It has to do with the rights of CO2, it has to do with the fact that it's inescapable to close the coal power stations; you can't look at the past, you have to look at the future. I know, I know that at the top with COP25 Poland was one of the most opposed, but Galicia has to look at the future, look at the past is looking at the delay and not looking at progress. That's our proposal. Besides, there's no alternative, at least we have it clear. All political forces, including you, agree that we have to develop and plan a fair energy transition, but we have to realize it. And we imagine that the People's Party will be willing to put it into practice in the event that it affects us as strongly as it is in the cases of the Bridges and Meirama, so that it really is transitioning a decarbonized electric production — that's inescapable — and that it really is fair and does not benefit only the usual ones. Fair, obvious transition. But the fair transition cannot be fair if the alternative is to give land to the big electricians as if Galicia had been the American West in the 19th century, which is what is happening now. How is that of renewable power auctions favoring offers of greater power? That was the People's Party's initiative. When it had to be quite the opposite: favouring offers of lower power, cooperatives, municipalities, energy communities. That would really be to fight for the future of distributed and democratic energy. Because it's normal for citizenship to oppose wind farms. What does a wind farm really contribute to a county, to a municipality? You should go there and see that money leaves a wind farm there, responsible for the income it earns; for really ridiculous: a part in the construction and then practically nothing. That's why we in the budget amendments suggested that the wind canon should be reconfigured. It's true, if we really think about citizenship, Galicia if it could be an wind power. What can't be, is that most of the technological infrastructure used in parks is manufactured outside Galicia and here it is made part, the part with less technological incidence, basically the steps, when the turbines could be manufactured, if there was really a decided strategy by the Galician Union. Now you're told that we have to plan, that we don't have time. Of course not. You've been ten, and before another two years, in the former government. Since 2007, when he closed the bridge mine, it's been known that the power station, sooner than later, would be unrelenting. That's why In Marea looks at success experiences, because success experiences are not to keep the plants that contaminate, against wind and tide. The experiences of success are those that look to the future, that look to the ecological transition and that look to the energy transition. I propose that we take a trip accompanied by people from the Bridges, people from affected groups, unions, associations, Lood-en-Gohelle. You will know it above all — imaginable — because it is an example of how a region — moreover, a very similar area to the Bridges, with seven thousand inhabitants, with coal mines, with thermal power plants, in which the mines have been closed, closed down and developed a whole complex that makes it ten years later — yes, they have begun in time — GDP has doubled, and it is the pilot centre of all the development of the ecological transition in France, collecting huge financial contributions from both the European Union and the French State. Well, many of our proposals, which you have in the interpellation, are based on these realities. They're not happy ideas, I have to admit that most of them have been copied. Also from Ontario, which has done the same since 2009, closing the five coal thermal power plants that had similar to the Bridges in their territory. And there is a need for a new development model that improves the previous one, which is more sustainable and more participatory. That's the key. In these areas, all examples are successful, because they were truly participatory. There has been all social fabric: associations, trade unions, political parties, councils and, of course, the Regional Government and the Government of the State, with contributions that we will also have to ask the European Union for. These were the main axes of these experiences. This is the most relevant aspect of participation. From there we could achieve a diagnosis and a collective strategy, passing from a mere attitude of continuous complaint — which is the current attitude of the People's Party in Galicia — to a true proactive and proactive attitude. And that's where our first part of the inquiry goes. Where will the money come from? There you have four proposals where the money should come from. First, recover — already commented — the unexecuted investment of Plan Miner. Later, other provisions that were already in the extended budgets of 2018, the contributions that should have made to the Council of Galicia. But in the 2020 budgets we have made fifteen concrete proposals for The Bridges and Meirama, they have rejected them all and in their budget there is nothing explicit. Maybe he's in other games, see if he can clear it up now. How many millions of euros are going to go for these seventeen proposals that we included in our interpellation — and then we will carry out our motion — or for others? I'm sure you may have many better ideas than we do. And then, of course, Naturgy and Endesa contribute. Do you know -- you know, I'm sure you know -- how much Endesa billed in the 40 years of the existence of the power plant? Over ten billion euros. Well, something you'll have to leave, because lignite wasn't from Endesa, it was a concession. All the land he occupied for the trash was not from Endesa, it was a concession. Allow the forced expropriation of these lands for a well-public theorist. Well, now they're returning something. Secondly, another part of the interrogations goes to the line that short-term actions would have to be developed. And that is where the Galician Union — obviously we have a government in function and the Galician Union is not in function, theoretically — could do concrete things in this period, which is not going to be too long — the European Union can approve projects from January 2021; one year is missing. For this year most of the money should be brought to Galicia and demand that, as soon as there is government, they also cooperate. The first one is -- I don't know if you've made it clear already, for example in Andorra and Teruel, that you're going to do Endesa to ensure job maintenance; you probably know it already and you can explain it to us, both in Endesa and in Naturgy. Also, which thinks the Galician Junta can be done in these municipalities so that there is no economic and social downturn, that concrete actions will be done. Because they're going to talk to the truckers and they say it's a disaster, that it's Pedro Sanchez's fault. I don't think it's very hard to think how to diversify the activity of these trucks. The solution is not to tell them they're still transporting coal, because they're not still transporting coal. We have to tell you clearly, yes, to tell you that there is a lot of work in other transport activities. How could it help Galician Union in that issue? And then for auxiliary companies. You know what they did in this region of France? Develop a strategic energy efficiency plan in all homes. And there they gave jobs to all the people who worked in the auxiliary companies of the thermal and the mines. Why don't you put it as a pilot plan? Why don't you budget it? That, in addition, 50% of the budget could be financed by people owning the housing, that is, by giving them a facility for financing energy savings.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u302	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u303	It's proven that a housing with adequate energy efficiency saves 70% of its energy expenditure. In seven years they could depreciate the investment. If the Galician Union helps and helps finance the rest, hundreds of jobs could be created in both districts and be a pilot plan for the rest of Galicia. There are many more proposals, which, if you give me time later, I will continue to concretely.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u304	Thank you, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u305	But please, Counselor, tell me what the Galician Council intends to do. I know you think it's all Pedro Sánchez's fault, but, apart from that, the Galician Union will have some strategy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u306	Thank you. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u307	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Casal, if it hadn't been for more than seven hundred jobs in danger at the Bridges and nearly two hundred jobs that are affected in Cerceda, by a disorderly and socially unfair energy transition, I'd think that his intervention, when he tries to transfer that this government has a continuous complaint, is just a heavy joke; I honestly tell him. You have been instigating an accelerated closure of both thermal power stations and it seems that, with your intervention, they now want to try to justify themselves. But that's not the case, because there are jobs and families are at risk of losing their future. So this government — if I move it — will not accept an unfair transition and will not accept an energy breakdown. And it's not like this government doesn't accept it. The European Commission itself suggests that the energy transition process should evaluate the social impacts that these decisions can have and, therefore, protect employment and protect industry. What we're not going to accept is thinking about a future leaving the present. This government will not think of the future of decarbonization in the year 2050 without giving the nine hundred families now affected by the closure of the two power stations, if it also produces the closure of the bridges, it will not accept it, because working for the future works from now on, and thus giving it an alternative to the situation and to the current industry. Look, Mr. Casal, Galicia is green and Galicia wants to be greener, that's reality. I remind you that we are already the second largest community with power and power generation from renewable sources. We have reached about 15% and 17.5% of Spain's total. In fact, 66% of the electricity installed in Galicia is already renewable, far above the national average, which is 38%, as you know, and well above all states like France, which has 19%, or Germany, with 35%. And this, Mr. Casal, is not the result of chance, is the result of a firm and sustained bet on the renewable energies of the Union of Galicia, currently collected in the Energy Guidelines 2020. He knows that twenty wind farms are currently being built in our country, which will allow Galicia to reach the 4,000 megawatts of installed wind energy, and, in addition, Greenalia has just completed the construction of the biomass plant in Curtis, Spain's second largest with 50 megawatts. And, in order to achieve this progress, Junta set in motion two years ago the Business Implementation Act, which unfortunately had the rejection of opposition groups and very uniquely also of its group, despite being a law that offers more agile regulation, which offers more transparency and security without losing the urban, technical and environmental guarantees. With this law, Mr. Casal, today we can talk about the recovery of Galician leadership in the wind sector, and surely to contrast it should speak to the sector, and the sector would transfer it as this law is a guarantee law and, in addition, it is a facilitating law. I'm surprised to wonder what the wind sector is bringing in in our country, I'm very surprised: job creation, city council taxes, tax on the Galician Union, which can reverse the local population and the Galician Union itself and the municipalities. He knows perfectly well that, as far as we are a power in the wind sector, we have an industrial fabric; he knows perfectly well that photovoltaic does not bring industry to this country; the wind sector, yes. That's why this government is betting on the wind sector. I therefore believe, Mr Casal, that they should honestly review the impact that the wind sector is generating in our country and, therefore, encourage and support the measures that allow the development of the wind sector. Of course, we are in a context of change from the point of view of the electrical generation and we can agree that distributed generation models must be driven, of course, yes, but they will still have to be compatible with the development of wind farms and hence with centralized production. Both models are perfectly compatible to generate greater renewable energy, both from the point of view of centralised production and from the point of view of distributed generation, and that's where Galicia wants to be from the point of view of renewable energy. And we keep working, as you know, in the fight against climate change. Galicia is the fourth community that already has its own instrument for developing a 2050 climate change and energy strategy; only four autonomous communities have concrete planning on measures to change a low-emission economic model. Finally, we are acting and are developing very concrete measures. And you should know that Galicia is doing its homework to be greener. We have a new law, a draft waste law and a circular economy strategy, and you know that last week we adopted an agreement in social dialogue to set an agenda for a fair and orderly energy transition, an agreement that, for the first time in Spain, an autonomous community has an agreement with economic and social agents to develop precisely this fair and orderly energy transition that is demanding us by the Greeks and the Greeks. Last week, economic and social organizations showed that desire to add effort, to which I invite you to join your parliamentary group as well, precisely to promote the economic progress and social cohesion we want in Galicia. Eleven agreements for a more competitive Galicia, to generate new employment opportunities, but above all by committing ourselves, Mr. Casal, to the development in Galicia of an energy transition agenda. Because we want Galicia to be able to access the European funds that know they will start in the period 2021-2027 and because we also want to respond to the new needs that, together with the strategy of climate change and clean energy committed by the Central Government, will be established; by the way, a central government that has not yet approved its fair transition strategy. So, among other measures, we're going to create the first just energy transition map to identify both the capabilities and the best alternatives that we have to value all our energy potential; we'll do it in the context of social dialogue. We will study, Mr Casal, the feasibility of pilot and innovation projects to develop technologies that respond to new energy trends and needs and develop a strategy directed at the reindustrialization of areas affected by the closure of thermal power plants. So, Mr. Casal, the solutions Galicia needs from this government in order to push for a smooth transition we're doing them, we're pushing them and we're consensing them with economic and social agents. And if you really want an industrial future for Galicia and for the regions most affected by the lack of a government in Spain that guarantees a competitive energy cost, I hope that in your group you will add to the message of unity emanating from the Galician industry, from the Welsh workers and from the Galician society in defense of our productive fabric. There, Mr Casal, you will find the Galician Union and the People's Parliamentary Group. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u308	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u309	I've got the chopper here, maybe I've read it already, and... [[Laughter]] The truth is, I appreciate the importance it gives this group of En Marea when it comes to the idea that we were the ones who -- we said -- forced Naturgy and Endesa -- he said at first, to shut down the power stations. True, it is true that I had the first intervention I had in this parliament in 2016 was saying that the Meirama and The Bridges would close, that they had to close and that it was inevitable that they would close. That's also what I said at the bridges in January 2017. You don't know, but my wife is from the Bridges. [[Murmurs.]] When I said that, my wife said, "Shut your mouth, they're going to take your hat off." And I talked to a lot of people there, I said, "Look, hopefully, with great luck, this power station will close in 2025." They said, "No, the counselor told us that in 2045, the Government told us that in 2045, Endesa told us that in 2045." You know they told me a month ago, about, when I was there talking to friends I've got there, truck drivers and people who work at the station? "I wish we had listened to you when you said so two years ago, almost three years ago, and maybe the performance would be different." No, Counselor, it wasn't In Marea, it was the market, as you would say. There's a reality, there's an inescapable reality: being back to reality is not looking to the future. Besides, there is another reality, an ecological reality, a reality of looking at the future of the planet, of thinking about our grandchildren and our grandchildren, is inescapable. I remember two months ago when you were thinking about eliminating ecological taxation, giving them capacity payments, that is, to be stopped, giving Endesa money to be stopped, when you were considering biomass for a 1.400 megawatt plant, olives and all that -- you were around at those meetings -- all those stories, now it looks like prehistoric, now no one is proposing it. Two months ago I heard it here, with proposals from the People's Party, maybe you didn't agree, maybe. Obviously, there are obvious social impacts, but the solution — I say — is not looking back, is looking forward. And besides, I don't really have much imagination, I always rely on examples, actually, on what I'm dealing with. In all the facets of my professional life I've never invented anything, I've devoted myself, yes, to trying to find the best examples. And the best examples in the wake of crises that affect the energy transition are those that look forward, not those that look back. I assure you that the regions of France and Ontario -- what I was saying to you, which, in addition, I'm sure you've already studied -- have a lot more future than the regions of Poland that are resistant to the energy transition; I assure you, I assure you, certainly. Indeed, we are a renewable power, but that does not justify that we have the most important focus of greenhouse gases from all over Spain and one of the twenty strongest in Europe. That's not looking at the future. That is not a good sign for the European Union that you really have the conviction that there is a government in Galicia that looks at the future, that looks at the fight against climate change, and that that would mean that you will probably have the availability, if you do the projects as it is due until the end of next year — that maybe before you leave the Government you can make it ready, you would have to leave it ready — that from January 2021 we have huge economic contributions to change all this. ***In the meantime, in my interrogation, he was considering transitional measures. Why don't you approve that measure of immediate action of energy efficiency at home starting it at the Bridges and in Meirama? You try, try to see, by dedicating — it seems to me that in our amendment we were proposing — EUR 5 million for both regions. For that would mobilise another 5 million private contributions funded, and that could give work to all auxiliary companies throughout this transition period. Then you say that, indeed, the contribution of the wind industry in Galicia is very strong. Let's hope it's true, let's hope that the only powerful factory of passage that remains in Galicia -- you know what it is -- Siemens-Gamesa, in Somozas, doesn't have any problems. I didn't want to talk about this until now, but you know that there are already problems and it can't be that, if Galicia is going to install all those thousands of megawatts that you say, the most important factory of passage that exists in Galicia -- and maybe in Spain, it's one of the biggest in Europe -- it's at risk of closing; that's impossible. And I'm not going to quote it again, because it's best not to quote the devil, but I'm sure you're already with the fly behind your ear. Then the last part of the inquiry has — and I will already put it to the motion — another thirteen or fourteen concrete proposals. Technology centers. Why don't you try it? Why don't you really try piloting centers in these two areas? The centre guiding energy communities throughout Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u310	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u311	Why not consider Movistar, Vodafone or so that the beginning of 5G in Galicia is at the Bridges and Meirama? You have a lot of ideas there. Of course, I'm sure you with all your team can have them better, but I have ideas, projects, looking to the future, don't look at the past. Really, Counselor, that's not a viable way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u312	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Close the gap, economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u313	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Casal, if we've had a little more time, we could probably even reach some agreement this very afternoon. I would only ask you about your intervention is that we try to get closer to reality and above all we will face with realism what the situation we have in Galicia is. This realism now passes by nine hundred families who are threatened to lose their present and future. When you say, "Let's look to the future," I say, "yes, but let's not turn our backs on the present." That means, therefore, working in an orderly energy transition and that it's fair. And I'm just going to give very specific data. I've already transferred you to my first intervention as Galicia is working on an energy transition and how we have led the energy transition to social dialogue, and how we have been able to establish a strategy combined with economic and social agents (with UXT, with Workers' Commissions and with the Confederation of Galician Entrepreneurs) precisely to work on important issues as we are to establish this map of fair energy transition, as we have been able to study the viability of pilot projects and innovation, as you are moving me, to develop technologies that respond to new trends and energy needs, and how we are going to develop in Galicia a strategy directed precisely to that reindustrialization in the regions affected by the closure of power plants. Therefore, Galicia is working on that energy transition with concrete measures, even with a strategy against the struggle of climate change. But reality is what we have, and what we have is a European Commission that is moving in is that member states have to develop an energy transition that does not impact on employment. That is the recommendation that the European Commission be moved to the draft of the PNIEC, of the Integrated National Energy and Climate Plan, which the European Commission is telling the Government of Spain, and it knows that the European Commission is currently drawing up the European Green Pact, Mr Casal. The European Commission does not currently have a planned instrument to address this energy transition, and will do so, there is a commitment that in January 2020 this European Green Pact, which will be provided with a fund of EUR 5 billion, will be placed on the table. Why do we want to deny reality to nine hundred families that depend on reality that it is not fair for them to have to pay the cost of that transition and the European Commission does not ask them to do so? The Government of Spain has not yet approved its fair transition strategy, it has not provided funds to address these energy and industrial transition processes. Why aren't the same measures laid down? We don't ask for anything else. From Galicia we are telling the Government that those thermal power stations, which in the case of Galicia is The Bridges, that they have made investments to comply with industrial emissions regulations in Europe, can keep their activity on equal terms that the rest of the 149 thermal power stations that are currently operating in Europe. We do not ask for anything, nothing that is not being considered at European level. So what we are asking the Government precisely is that they come together between Endesa and the Government itself, which sets out the necessary measures so that production can be reactivated at the thermal power station of the Bridges, that we can reactivate that production while we do not have an opportunity and therefore a real alternative to the productive fabric of the district of the Bridges, because that is what the European Commission is asking us to do: to give alternatives to reality, which has to change. And the Galician Union knows that we have to move towards that process of decarbonization, but let's give that alternative to the workers so that they too can have a future, and, therefore, Mr. Casal, that it is not the workers who pay the economic costs of the energy transition in Europe. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u314	Thank you, Counselor. Da María Monserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the German Government in relation to emergency hospital services
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u315	To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u316	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. Today in this last full session, and also in the year, we want to ask you, ask you about the situation of hospital emergency services, and we want to do it because their problems, far from being solved, are chronicled. Many of the emergency services are already, before the so-called flu peak and respiratory problems have begun, in an extreme situation. At the end of November, the EOXI Specialized Care Center Commission reported that it had not yet begun the peak of the flu and the collapse of the emergency service at the University Hospital of Coruña was already taking place. They claimed it was not an isolated case, but it was a customary fact, derived from the lack of foresight by the agency. Yesterday — this was about November 20th — on December 17th, it was back to the limit. There were fifty-two patients waiting for bed, ten screening pendants and more than twenty people waiting to see after the choice. They report that they're already seventy-two hours in attendance, about six hours in waiting for attention. And what the Central Committee says is that it is normal that, within that you call normal, that the manager said it was the normal situation, which was normal, there are patients in corridors within the service. Yesterday, in one of the corridors, there were ten patients and, in another, twenty-six patients. Of course, the central committee qualifies him as intolerable within what is the right to privacy and dignity of people, of patients. It's a lack of intolerable dignity to take constants, to put on medication, to change spoons, to put conies in the middle of a corridor. And I'm the first question I have to ask you, Mr. Almuño, is whether you can imagine yourself in that situation, if you are able to imagine that you are going into emergency situations and that you are meeting these conditions in the middle of a corridor. It's a question that we all have to ask, because it's not always going to happen to others, it's not always going to pass on to anonymous people, who don't know who they are, because they can pass on to us, they can pass on to direct relatives, to our neighbors, to our neighbours. And I ask you if you are able to imagine yourself being cared for in a corridor, without any kind of privacy or confidentiality with respect to other patients, other patients' relatives or even anyone passing through. Because one of the corridors of the CHUAC of the Coruña is not an internal corridor of the emergency service, but it is the corridor where a lift is, where people from the street come, for example, who access the ICUs and pass through that corridor where people are stacked up or where they are attending them. And what professionals report is that these are deplorable conditions in which professionals work, which do not allow proper attention. And one shows that this is not a timely situation, it's not a sporadic situation, it's not a situation that happens from time to time, that in these corridors they've already fixed the tables of nursing control attention, they've already fixed them in a structural, permanent place, they're fixed to the wall, which is permanent attention in these circumstances. So, he sends out the alarms, because at this time in late November the agency wanted to take one more step, and besides these two corridors, he wanted to expand, given this situation of collapse, to a corridor that is an access to the hospital, that there are currents of air, there is no light, there is no kind of condition to care for the patients, there is no other corridors anymore, but at this very least, and if it is not done, it is because the central committee was planted there and he said that under no concept this would happen. And while this happened, because an entire plant is enabled in the Materno, a plant that they closed to do works, to equip themselves with bathrooms, which they had not, and time passes, years pass, and that plant is full of debris and nothing else has been done in it. Or the area of the old sterilization, which would also be enabled to support needs, and turns out it is as it was, without enabling. And this is the situation before that peak of the flu, with which the second question is: what do you think will happen when it happens, when there is an avalanche of flu patients, respiratory problems?, if the alarm situation is the norm, the alarm situation and this that I have just described is the rule of every day, because any small increase in flu is becoming a catastrophe. That's in the Coruña hospital, but I can and I'll give you a couple more examples. We can talk about Álvaro Cunqueiro, the new hospital in Vigo. Waiting times to be taken care of after triage, it can be an average of eight hours. That could be the norm any day, yes. Cases of catalogued as green priority, which knows it's according to Manchester's less urgent selection, which can wait up to 100 minutes; when they're going to attend, it turns out that it's already turned into a orange priority, which needs to be served in less than ten minutes. It's not the first time this happens. And look, that spends twenty-four hours until you help yourself to bed and climb the plant, or go to The Wizard, it's the norm, as much as you say not with your head. Look, on November 27th at 7:00 a.m., there were twenty incomes without beds. At 3:30 p.m., nine o'clock, no bed. On December 12 at 3 p.m. there were twenty-nine incomes, twenty without bed. On the 14th at 3 p.m., thirty incomes, twenty-seven without bed, or ten at night, twenty incomes, eight without bed. This is the reality of the Cunqueiro Alvaro too, and while this happens, they have two whole plants, four wings closed in the Mexoneiro; thirty beds per wing, one hundred twenty closed beds, while this happens, because, when we say wait hours, we're talking about people with names and names, suffering, with pathologies, many of the older people, who in many cases are in a padiola for hours waiting. And they open, for example, the Mexier in model accordion: they open a wing and as soon as he sees that there is no longer the urgency to seal it, as if it were an accordion; that's his norm. We can go to Chou. Chaos since August, in September, in early December. Again chaos in Montecelo's emergency services; a situation that repeats continuously, is not a matter of time. On December 3rd, there was a situation of people waiting for more than thirty hours, exhausted paddies, people in consultation beds, for example in endoscopy. And this happens when they were thirty-six beds in the provincial hospital what they call M3 (internal medicine 3) closed, which opened some of them this week but in a timely manner. We can talk about HULA, with constant caps due to lack of drainage of patients towards hospitalization plants. If those who have to enter, Mr. Almounina, do not, the patients who have to pass the observation cannot do so because there are those who are awaiting to enter, and those who have to be in observation are in boxing because observation is busy. And we can keep following the spiral. In the meantime, these collapses of non-drainage towards hospitalization, have whole units also closed, thirty-four beds in each of the units, sixty-eight closed beds, to which you have to add that urology plant that was closed because it was going to be pre-inflicted, but which in the end is almost permanently also closed, also model accordion; it opens a little and as soon as it doesn't need to, it will be closed; we make the model accordion. And there's a question, Mr. Padre. Emergency services are areas of passage, where people come to be cared for and have to be either discharged or taken to hospital. They're not prepared for continued attention, and you're turning us into continuous care areas for hours and days. They're not equipped, there's no bathrooms, there's not enough showers. Taking constants — as I told you earlier — in corridors, putting on medication, changing diapers, putting on cribs, that can't be done permanently and constantly in an emergency service. Or the subject of breakfast, of meals; it's not ready for this to happen. And what you can't tell me is that the beds are there and they open when they need it, because you know it's not, because opening a bed is not giving a switch. We have to call the professionals to come in (infirmary, TCAE, zoners), when they get to call all these professionals, which in many cases only call the nursing and the rest because they overburden us. Medication supplies, because the plants are closed, they are equipped with the necessary storage materials, cleaning personnel. Besides, then, on these plants, when you open them, a mix of pathologies that makes the staff optional have to move from one plant to another, it takes more time. So it's a situation -- we insist -- which I just described these days -- I'm not talking about pre-term time, I'm talking about these days -- which is produced before these flu peaks. That is why we want to ask you, Mr Almuño, what was planning, what is planning, whether you really believe that you respect the dignity of the sick, of your family, taking care of the people in this circumstance; if you think that professionals can give minimal attention to quality in these circumstances; that resources are mobilized to address this situation and which are going to mobilize and what are the contingency plans for when the real peak of the flu is produced; that you have planned to make, if you have any plans for the catastrophes of every year. Because if they don't open the beds, they're closed, the staff have it in many cases under minimum, if they give these circumstances, when they produce the avalanche, we'd like to know what the plan is and if they have any plans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u317	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u318	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Madam President, every year we put in place a number of measures towards the influenza campaign, since, in addition to prevention measures and devices developed in primary care due to this pathology, there is an increase in the frequency of hospital emergency services. For all this, the Galego Health Service annually sets out the contingency plans for the influenza season, for this time we are going through, which are developed by every agency in the health area and sent to the General Directorate for Health Care in October. These plans include action protocols in the various areas of assistance. 061 centralizes immediate information and orders assistance resources. In primary care, we highlight the promotion of vaccination in the risk population and the reorganization of specific nursing schedules to carry out such vaccination, as well as that of family medicine and pediatrics, to facilitate better care for patients. Also from primary care services and continuing care points sensitizes citizenship about the handling of uncomplicated influenza at home, as well as the criteria for requesting health care in the event of decompensation of the basal situation of patients. Always in an uncomplicated flu the best place to pass it is precisely the home, because we also avoid infection. And, of course, hospital services, especially emergency services, but many others who collaborate and I'll comment on later. These plans, although adapted to the needs of each health area, tend to the general criteria marked by Sergas which set the basic standards in relation to the criteria for access to hospital emergency services, the criteria for the referral of patients to hospital emergency services, derivation from primary care, inter-hospital health transport; response criteria by the laboratory of clinical analysis, radiology and inter-consultation carried out in other specialities; action measures in the case of emergency over-fighting, establishing four levels according to the percentage of global emergency entries awaiting hospitalization, with the measures to be implemented in each case; or action measures on levels of emergency emergency overdemand. Therefore, in these plans, the necessary measures are designed to advance the increase in demand for assistance and to ensure adequate health care for the population in this period. It must be pointed out that they are prepared with the participation of the professionals responsible for their implementation, who assign them. In them, the actions to be carried out in the various areas are collected and planned in order to control the life consequences of the spread of the infection wave and to describe alternative procedures, the usual order of the organization in order to allow for maximum normal functioning by contemplating the need for specific spaces and the empowerment of both structural and personnel resources, bed, professional reinforcement, etc., according to increasing care needs during this winter season. It must also be borne in mind that hospital emergency services also assist patients with other non-respiratory pathologies, so, although it is possible to plan the demand for flu waves — following what I will comment on — the entry into emergency services is always subject to unforeseen changes and circumstances, which, added to the discontinuity of the urgent demand feature, may cause moments of point of demand. Obviously, what we've come to say is that we have different protocols to make the activity flexible according to the needs of the population and that there is obviously an important part of the emergency services that cannot be planned because it depends on the demand of users, which have a different definition of urgency from one another, except those derived from services, whether from health centers, whether from 061 or also from the points of continuous care. We always say that we have to graduate the different performances, and from the very start, as I said before, by 061, that it's a direct, rapid performance by the citizens, that they can call that number, and know what the basic orientations are to see if it's necessary to move to another level or not. The health center, where there's a direct and effective initial performance by the family doctor and his team. And the continuing points of attention, which are very resolute, which sometimes makes it unnecessary to go to the emergency service; but it is true that sometimes the population skips that resource and goes directly to the emergency service. It's also very important to prevent, and that's why for us the best intervention to prevent and mitigate, i.e. to avoid the bimortality derived from the flu is the vaccination of the population. So, one more year we're developing the population's anti-gribal vaccination campaign, which runs until the end of December, the 27th day of this campaign. Currently, with data on 17 December, 585,159 vaccinations were recorded, 35 more than on the same date as the previous year. Of these 401,000 vaccines correspond to people 65 years of age or older; that is, at the moment 59.13%, so, the lack of ten days to complete the campaign, we've already surpassed at more than half a point the coverage of the previous year. As for the population of the health area of Coruña and Cee — I am sorry, Madam, that I am centred in the area of Coruña and Cee, because the original question was not generally spoken about but about the service of the health area of Coruña and Cee — there are currently 117,128 vaccinations registered, 6,643 more than on the same date as the previous year. And, of these vaccines, 78,438 correspond to people 65 or older, which means 59.33 % of the coverage of this population, and 1.30 % more than the same date of the previous year. So the vaccination campaign this year continues to increase, it continues to provide very favourable data and certainly above most autonomous communities in Spain. Watch is also fundamental in this period, because that will guide us in how to plan resources at different levels of assistance. In this case we have several monitoring elements. One is the surveillance of influenza in Galicia, where information on influenza activity is collected, among others, with intensity, tendency, diffusion of flu waves, reports that it is published weekly, while it lasts the same, as well as the report of income in influenza hospitals confirmed the week before. Another monitoring point is the one based on Sergas' primary primary care computerized influenza logs. And the last control we're doing is monitoring the records of weekly calls to 061 for flu and more acute respiratory infections, and that gives us the end, as we said earlier, a level of influenza status. We can say that we take into account the activity of the emergency services of the Sergas centers from January to November 2019 and the overall number of emergencies across Galicia are about the same data as the previous year. But if we go to the Hospital Complex of Coruña, we now have more emergencies than in the previous year, but less income -- i.e., the income pressure from the emergency has fallen with respect to other years. If the activity is far above the usual, it can produce on time more people waiting for bed, the situation on which we actively work with professionals to optimally channel all this activity, trying to regulate the number of highs and the number of incomes. What happened on the particular day, which was the initial question, of October, was that there was a concrete increase in demand, a day determined against 300 days earlier without any incidence. During the afternoon of Tuesday, October 19, and the following night, there was an increase in the demand for care for patients in the hospital emergency service much higher than usual; however, during the morning of Wednesday 20th, the usual normality of the emergency service was recovered. So we're talking about a specific fact, a specific day, and that, as it came to pass, it was quickly resolved through all the planning that this service has. The situation of overdemand occurs episodeically in hospital emergency services in all health services, here, in any autonomous community and of course also throughout Europe, which does not mean that health services, and within these emergencies, have not evolved very significantly in these years, adapting more and more flexibly to this reality. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue to work so that our health services continue to provide the health care that society demands. We are aware that complications may arise on issues that in principle seem predictable, and we will continue to improve. Once again, I thank the professionals of all health care facilities (in the field of primary care, no. 061 and of course in hospital services) for the work they do day by day and logically also in periods of maximum influx, in which they respond effectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u319	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u320	I don't know how you can dare to say -- I tell you frankly, with this Christmas spirit that is stalling us today -- that what happened on November 20 was a timely case and that the remaining 300 60 days of the year occur without incidents and with normality. I think I just told you what the situation was yesterday: in the CHUAC, fifty-two people were awaiting entry. One thing is to tell me: I have no resources, and another thing is that he comes here to deny reality. Look, you've come to say that the best place to get flu is at home, I suppose with a little... We can also recommend to people that they shelter, that they don't get cold. We can recommend, as you just said, not to go to the hospital. It seems like it's better to stay in the little house than to go to the hospital; that's what you deduced from your intervention. But it's that people get sick and even die of flu, as you know; sixty people in 2018. So, I'd ask you for some responsibility, since you are the most responsible for our country's public health, and that you answer some of the questions. I don't know if you had time to reflect on what I asked you: how would you feel if you had been cared for in emergency services how much of our country's population is being cared for? I hope I have time to answer. And you said there's a schedule, specific spaces, protocols. Well, I'd like you to tell me which, because, if in circumstances still without the peak of the flu, the situation is what I described in four emergency services -- we can talk about the rest -- I don't want to imagine when the peak of the flu really comes. We're not going to get tired of repeating that we are facing a structural problem, Mr. Counselor, that is not solved with patches or rosary and the litany that you just repeated here. Solved with structural responses. And you know the emergency problem is triple. It's a problem of how primary care has no solvency, with lack of professionals, waiting lists, oversaturated CAPs, and when people get sick and have no response goes to where they think they can give it, which is in hospital services; hospital services where you have a very important part of closed beds, whole plants closed, which is indecent that they have them like this at this point. And then there's the situation on the waiting lists, which, as much as you make them, know that there are people who pass through, as long as they're diagnosed with a health problem until they're taken care of, not months, but even years. Because it is the delay in primary care, the delay in external consultations to attend the first time, the delay in diagnostic tests, the delay in the following consultations and then the delay in waiting for surgery. We're going to add up all those delays, Mr. Padre, and how much do you think most of the Greeks and the Greeks are waiting for their health problem to be solved? You know it doesn't look anything like the data you give. That's why they don't give the right data either. And those three elements: the situation of deteriorating primary care, closing beds and waiting lists also make an overdemand on the emergency situation. And you say they'll adapt specific spaces. What spaces will adapt for example in the CHUAC if at this time every day people are in the corridors? They're gonna adapt more runners or they're gonna actually do something right away, don't you tell me inside, I don't know how many years, with the construction of the new hospital? I'm saying for this year, for this winter, for this flu peak. Professionals deserve a minimum of job guarantees, they can't be sold every day in service to people in these circumstances. You know there are court cases of complaints, for example in the CHUAC of the Crown, of people who have had a dramatic outcome since soon because they are treated in these circumstances. And patients need answers. I'll make you a series of proposals, Mr. Almuña. First of all, the staffing of professionals, not those fraudulent OPE squares ads that you continuously say and that you know they've been announcing the same squares in 2018 and 2019 several times. And the first thing I'm telling you is that you act right away to end the indignity of caring for people in the emergency corridors. To develop a protocol of action in the face of outbreaks of assistance, to do so and to be known to professionals; you say it is done in collaboration with professionals and professionals say they don't know anything, they say they're not participants and they're not informed of which are those contingency plans that you say exist, but it turns out that no one knows. To proceed immediately to remedy staff deficits, as I told you earlier. That you take all the necessary measures to keep the hospital units open and working permanently with all the necessary resources, which, I told you before too, there is no switch I give you and it's already working. To take all those measures, to have the plants...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u321	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u322	...open. To present a real employment stability plan and to make truly non-exploitable recruitment offers. And a real plan to lower the waiting lists. Which acts in these three fields: in primary care, in waiting lists...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u323	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u324	...and have all the resources open permanently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u325	Thank you. Close the interrogation, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u326	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Look, I don't mind you saying things I don't say. I talked about the flu. The uncomplicated flu in young people solves where it's solved, for two reasons: because there's a possibility to do it with treatment at home and because that's also why we avoid infection; but the uncomplicated flu. Don't say other things I didn't say. He's talking about waiting lists for us to paint. I don't know if when you were responsible in the Bipartite Government they were making the waiting lists. The waiting lists are not checked in this government. But I know you don't like Galicia being the fourth best community on waiting lists. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, I know you don't like it, but that's what there is. And look, in OPE, at public job offers, also this autonomous community has made OPE every year, of the few that it has done every year. And to tell you -- because these are your comments that need to be clarified before you follow what the answer is -- that contingency plans are not made by the professionals in each of the areas, but by assigning them, the heads of service assign these plans. Therefore, they are made by professionals and assigned by them, and carried out with great success. Overdemand is a universal problem and happens when that assistance demand is intense. Sometimes increasing response times, but prioritising action, we don't lose quality in attention. It's the choice I'll talk about later. And all this with absolute respect to the dignity of the patients, their right to privacy and confidentiality. I must comment at this point that the distribution and provision of resources in the emergency area has been widely studied in hospital architecture, and there is broad consensus that the right to privacy and privacy of patients should be blended with maximum effectiveness in emergency care and situation, where spaces should allow immediate mobilization of equipment and the presence of several professionals acting at the same time. More space and wider. We can see it in the last projects, but already in the emergency expansion of the Coruña Hospital and, of course, in the new Montecelo, Ferrol projects and those we have currently on the project. Regarding the dignity of people, the confidentiality of information about their health and all health rights are respected in the health care provided in the emergency services of our hospitals. Our hospitals' emergency services have high-quality professionals and training, as well as quality infrastructure and equipment, working with protocols and information systems that allow the development of their work in the best conditions. In any case, patients are always treated first through the process of screening, implantation completed in the Greek hospitals in 2013, and, depending on that, on the established priority, the different colors, which previously also mentioned the honourable lady. In relation to the University Hospital Complex of Coruña, from January to November 2019 the distribution of patients according to the levels of choice shows that the highest percentage is concentrated in yellow triads, 52.26%, and green ones, 37.8%. The CHUAC emergency service has increased its demand and average activity in the past year, from 300 daily emergencies to over 400. That's why there has been an increase in aid spaces — six more posts — and staff staffing has been strengthened, increasing staff by ten in different settings to ensure the care and coverage of all population demand. The 2019 Flu Continent Plan has set the following general measures. With regard to access to hospital emergency services, it is established that 90 per cent of attendance is pre-arranged in less than ten minutes. With regard to patient derivation to hospital emergency services, it is established, among other measures, that in intra-hospital secondary transport the transfer is sought to be carried out to the destination unit. As for the response of emergency service providers, 80% of requests made for clinical analysis and radiology have results in one hour. Ladies and gentlemen, health planning leads to the adequacy of resources to care needs at all times, justified in the assistance indicators of previous years, and in epidemiological studies according to the seasonal behavior of the pathologies, so that estimates of the necessary resources are made. In the case of the CHUAC the influenza Continence Plan in force since October 2019 was developed with consensus and coordination of primary care services, continuing care points, hospital emergency services, preventive medicine services, admission services, pneumology service, internal medicine service, microbiology, diagnostics and all areas to be coordinated. The plan has application in any situation of overdemand that occurs. I want to say that attention is guaranteed in the emergencies and the functioning of the response plans designed for peaks on time. For us, ladies and gentlemen, we have the best emergency services, we have contingency plans and reinforcement plans at all hospital levels, the best healthcare infrastructures, the most health professionals, and, with all we have, we will continue to work on meeting the demand needs at every moment in order to provide adequate assistance to our patients. I want to thank healthcare professionals again in all areas of attention for their magnificent work. And I also mean that in the Coruña...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u327	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u328	...we are now about to achieve what is the basic and executional project of phase 3, which will use areas that have been empty for previous works, the new surgeries, the new sterilization center, to improve hospital care, but also outpatient care. And, of course, the new project of Coruña hospital, which will further improve health care...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u329	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u330	...current and what soon they'll have news. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u331	Thank you. We move on to the sixth point of the agenda, you ask the Government. Question by D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the position of the Greek Government regarding the possible speculative operation covered under the project of construction of the Celtic sports city in the municipality of Mos
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u332	Mr Bará, whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u333	Good afternoon. Counselor, I have to tell you that I do not have the Christmas spirit today, as it has been said before; I am barred by the spirit of Tameiga, this parish which is rebelling against injustice, against the falcatruists who attempt to perpetrate from the People's Party on the board of Galicia, and in addition to the Council of Mos. [[Applause]] And I would like to ask you a very specific question, Counsellor: do you think that this town hall of Mos, which cannot be called otherwise, is the example of its strategy against climate change? This genuine defeat of a million square metres of forest production land to benefit private entities who want to make a sports complex there and, above all, — what is true — what is behind, which is a macro shopping center, is an example of sustainability and conservation of values and uses of the territory, Counsellor? You know what this is? This is an example of a power diversion book, the use of public administrations to promote particular interests. [[Applause]] This is an example of a book from an urban ballast of a large, huge urban ballast. And there are disturbing reports from different administrations that demonstrate this, starting with reports that he made his own advice. I remind you here that the Institute of Territory Studies I remind you here that the Instituto de Estudios do Territorial said in a report that an alternative location should be studied for this complex, that this was not the right place and that the need for a commercial macrocentre, a commercial area, should be properly justified. The General Directorate of Urbanism should justify the choice of expropriation as a system of action, and I remind you that neighboring mountains can only be expropriated for projects of social interest, public ownership projects, which is not done here. Because what's behind here, as I told you, is a business of a commercial macrocenter. There are many other reports. But it's just that, in addition, you're promoting a modification of the General Plan to then make a public contest and assist the promoter of this project. But what are they telling us, are they taking us for fools? If you are more than sung and known that Vigo Celta is the promoter of this scandal! If you put the other day...! Don't yell? [[The Environment, Territory and Housing Adviser, Vázquez Mejuto, speaks words which are not perceived.]] I scream because I'm indignant and I want to scream. Yes, you have to shout, you have to raise your voice because it's all right. [[Applause]] It turns out they're putting the first stone, all over the hill, with all the defect, of a project that will then be submitted to the public contest. But what kind of hairskin is this? And besides, they go there all the biggest plan of the Government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u334	Thank you, Mr Bará. Time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u335	...starting at Mr. Rueda...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u336	Thank you. Your time is up. Then he's got another shift. Thank you. Response from the Environmental, Territorial and Living Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u337	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When I was saying the scream was because it seemed like you didn't have a microphone. We really hear him down here and he listens to the people who accompany us today. I want to remind you, Mr Bará, that it was at the time of the Bipartite when more licenses were given to malls. It's just a reminder, isn't it? From there, compliance with the law; only and exclusively compliance with the law, Mr. Barah. Aren't you saying that there's a report from the Institute of Territory Studies that says that different alternatives are being studied? Is the process over yet? Are there any favorable reports, Mr Bará? No, here's the single and exclusive law. But you only want to move forward, only if you want to move forward! So one thing is their political concept and another very different is the technician. And the technician must respect it, we like it or we don't like it. I'd rather see your face, Mr. Bará, and your smile. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows a photograph.]] You don't have to show me the photograph. [[Applause]] Well, I want to tell you there's something called local autonomy, we like it or not, and therefore, in this case, there's...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u338	Excuse me a moment, Counselor. I beg you to hear it, please. It's a rule... we have a standard for guests that can't be manifested either in favour or against. We're glad they're here, but there's some rules. They can't speak out in favor or against or stand up when they're answering. Thank you. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u339	The timely amendment number 1 to the Municipal Management Plan of Mos for delimitation of a urbanized land use, staffing and tertiary sector was approved in the Council of Mos on November 5, which is called - you know - municipal autonomy. This amendment consists of incorporating into the municipal planning of an urbanized soil sector that allows the implementation of an integrated performance of sports facilities, leisure spaces and tertiary uses. We must not forget that according to Article 83 of Law 2/2016 of 10 February, Galician soil, any modification of urban planning should be based on duly justified public interest reasons. Of course, right, duly justified. We have to make the necessary foundation. Therefore, I stress again that, if there are no duly justified reasons for public interest, no immediate change can be approved. On the other hand, and as set out in Article 51.2 of the law already mentioned; that is, of the Galician Land Law, the formulation of urban planning is municipal competence. In this same case, it must be stressed that both Junta and Galicia are always fully respectful of these local competences and of the decisions taken by the municipalities, as they are legitimate representatives of citizenship and of the productive and commercial fabric of the area. Even so, and in the wake of the one set out in Article 60.15 of the Land Law itself, of the 10th of February, it must be emphasized that, in the matter of planning, autonomous competition, i.e., the Council of Galicia, is limited to checking the following aspects: integrity...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u340	Thank you, Counselor. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u341	...and sufficient documents that integrate the plan, among many others. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u342	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u343	Counselor, do you know what you want to do? You want to pass a dromedary through the eye of a needle, and we won't allow it, it won't allow the people of Tameiga, of course, because this is a real hit and it's a barbarity. And you gave us all the legal processing here very well, but I'll tell you what's the plan here. The plan began this day when they publicly presented the project on 15 December two years ago, and then all administrative steps were taken to comply with this announcement, beginning with an agreement signed the next day between the Celta de Vigo and the Town Hall of Mos, with the subsequent processing and with all those reports - more than 20 reports - contrary to this project from the Administration of the Union, the Deputies of Pontevedra and the Ministry of Development, which says, for example, that it affects the new layout of the A-55, with the impact on trade, with the need for water supply which is of great concern to you now and with the impact that will have the traffic and mobility for this trade macrocenter, which is what is really hiding here. You went ahead and you're going to go forward because Mr. Fexóo was here on December 15th -- "Fixóo" -- 2017 announcing this project, and they've already given orders that they've given you forward in all the proceedings. [[Murmurs.]] That's why you also came a few days ago, the whole major plan of the People's Party, there to support this project, although it's not approved this timely change to put the first stone, because you've already decided, whatever falls down, to do it. But we won't allow it, it won't allow social mobilization, and it won't allow him to be judged. What can happen? That, perhaps, the judge acts when this outcome is already done, and then, with the accomplished facts, we know what happens. We hope we don't get there, because of course, we're going to use all the means possible to prevent this authentic, gigantic and monstrous town hall of Mos. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u344	Whenever you want, advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u345	I remind you again, Mr Bará: law, observance of the law, only and exclusively. And I remind you that's what the Galician Union is doing. The Galician Union, on the one hand, is checking the integrity and adequacy of the documents that integrate the plan. Secondly, the compliance of the plan with the applicable urban legislation and the adequacy of its determinations to protect the rural environment. Thirdly, the coherence of the plan with the Land Management Guidelines, the Coastal Management Plan and the other land management instruments. Fourthly, the impact of the plan on matters of autonomous competence and on sustainable self-development policies. So there may be sectoral conditions and, once again, of compliance with the law - and I repeat again, the law, because you give them the same; that is, they go with a mantra and it's one thing or the next -... the processing of planning instruments requires the prior favourable report of the bodies that hold the corresponding competences. In other words, the verification of sectoral conditions is carried out by means of the regulatory procedure for the processing of the timely change, in which all sectoral reports which are mandatory must be issued. As for the proceedings, I'm telling you now. Taking up all the issues I have just mentioned, there is the Resolution of 16 May 2018 on the formulation of the comprehensive document for the unsimplified ordinary strategic environmental assessment, Mr Bará, of the timely modification of the General Plan of the Council of Mos. It should be noted that the ordinary environmental assessment procedure was initiated at the municipal level, bringing in request for initiation, draft planning and strategic initial document. The Directorate-General for Environmental Quality and Climate Change submitted the document to the public consultation period, consulting, among others, the Galego Environment and Sustainable Development Council. In the reach document, the following aspects are often evaluated — I say it because it is the law and then, as here it seems there is no law and someone says: "I either put or I don't quit or I don't quit..." -- the scope of environmental action and characteristics, the objectives of planning, the alternatives and initial proposal and the prior consultations, all prior consultations. It will therefore be within the scope of the processing of the file where the strict compliance with the implementing rules must be believed. Thank you very much, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u346	Thank you, Counselor. Da Eva Solla Fernández and D. Antón Sánchez García from G.P. Left Joint Group, on the measures being taken by the Council in Galicia to avoid the situation facing families residing in an official housing block in the Patina, in the Chamber Council, as a result of speculative investment fund practices
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u347	Mr. Sánchez, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u348	In short, under the rule of law, we will expropriate the price of bargain 900,000 meters to give it to Mr. Mouriño — not to this, to the President of Celta — to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u349	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u350	...requalify 140,000 meters as a tertiary area and that could do the business Mr. Mouriño, a millionaire business. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Within its disastrous housing policy to serve speculative interests and the consecutive fiasco of all its housing programs, such as the Empty Housing Program and the Official Protection Housing Policy, today we want to talk about the Patina; housings located in Chamber that are a curious and very symptomatic history of what is happening in this country. In 1997 they qualify as official protection homes and with part of public funds to subsidise the interests of a loan to the Fades builder. They are housing for rent protection, private promotion for rent, for people with limited income. I couldn't access any of those homes, but people who had limited income. Twenty years later the situation is as follows: housing made in part with public funds is owned by a Voitre fund, a society called Socimi. And people who have those limited incomes and that's why they have access to those homes, including people with disabilities and housing adapted to these disabilities, are in danger of going to the street. Many of them have already been before the imminent warning of the company of the Voitre fund of the increase in rents of 50%. It's a real disproposition that talks a lot about what you've done with the housing policy; you, who in 2012 -- the Day of the Innocent Saints -- made the law that exempts you from paying taxes to these societies so that you could speculate with the housing in the Spanish state. In Galicia I am already the country's largest real estate owner. Well, you – the Galician Junta, the Galego Institute of Vivenda and Solo – on February 2, 2017 authorized the sale of the Santander Bank to a Voitre fund. And I want to ask you two very specific questions: how do you justify your authorization to transmit the property to you -- Madam Counsellor, this is important; to see if you take it with a little seriousness -- from the Bank of Santander to a Voitre fund? Let's see if you can answer me. And second, Counsellor, what did you do, since you announced August 6, 2019 that the IGVS would mediate in the conflict for the sale of the Patina building...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u351	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u352	...to the present for the people who live in the Patina? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u353	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. The Councilor of Environment, Territory and Housing, Vázquez Mejuto, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u354	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The first question I would like to make clear, and from the outset, is that the homes of the Patinho building in the municipality of Cambre are not official protection since 2017, Mr. Sánchez. I'm not official protection. But once again, we're talking about law, and I'm telling you why: because the homes of the Patita are free right now, so the Galician Union can't intervene in the price or in the rental condition either. One thing is I'm doing middle school at a certain time and another thing is I don't have any competences about Patina's housing. The royal decree governing the Land Housing Plan of which these dwellings were built in the Patina generally established a period of protection of thirty years, which is what appears in the final qualification card and is registered in the property regime. However, in the case of housing promoted for rent, as is the case with the housing of the Patina, on that established in the Housing Plan, the additional provision of the Urban Rentals Act, prior to that plan, indicates that the period of protection of housing qualified for rent ends after the term of depreciation of the qualified loan granted to the promoter. It's twenty years in this case, Mr. Sánchez. Therefore, the protection period ended in 2017, since they have been definitively qualified since 1997; law, the only law, and exclusively law, just like the bases that we remove right now, on which we urge private owners to do what they do, to perform works of public promotion and to put the twenty-five years, on which they have to do a compliment. Then they're free houses. And this is here and it is throughout Spain, because it is the Plan of Housing; it is here, in Galicia, in Basque Country, in Catalonia, in Castile and León, in Andalusia and everywhere. Even so, I would like to tell you that, despite all this, if it is free housing, in October 2018 the Galego Institute of Living and Solo conducted management of the property of the old protected homes of the Patina with the aim of achieving continuity in the homes of the families to which the contracts were won. As a result of these operations, the company undertook to renew the contracts that were about to win and maintain the properties of the real estate in rent scheme. At present, the new owner of the property maintains the commitment to rent it and is renewing the contracts by updating the prices, something which no law or regulation can prevent it. According to the owner of the dwellings, who informed the Galego Institute of Vivenda and Solo, the tenants' contracts are being renewed, who are aware of the payment, and renting the empty dwellings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u355	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Sánchez has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u356	Counselor, avoid wasting time saying things we both know. I told you two very specific questions. You authorized transmission to a voyeur fund on February 2, 2017. If you have a letter authorizing the transmission of the property to a Voitre fund, it's because that housing at the time was an official shelter. How do you justify, on the basis of the general interest, that they allowed you to transmit and, for example, they would not try to get property of those dwellings? Because you come here as if people didn't exist. They're people with certain characteristics, who now see their lives complicated because they can't afford the rent they offer, complying with the law -- the law made to the extent of these voyeur funds, of course, by the People's Party -- and they have to leave the homes. Why did you at that time authorize a Voitre fund on which the neighbors have less pressure capacity than the Santander Bank? Why did they authorize him? Tell me, why? On 2 February 2017. And then, on August 6, 2019, you said you were going to interfere in the conflict to try to prevent people from having to go to the streets, Counsellor. What did they do? People are leaving, because they're raising rent prices by 50% to people who were entitled to these housing protection and rent because they had limited income. It's just that you have to worry about it. They're citizens who're going to run out of housing, and many of them with adapted housing, because they have disabilities. And you don't worry, you ignore the problem, you say, we have complied with the law, the law that you did precisely to facilitate business for Socimi, for example, without paying taxes. Why didn't they go with those houses so they could go on living these people there? Why, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u357	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. Replica from the Government. Mrs. Vázquez Mejuto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u358	Thank you, Mr. President. Law, Mr. Anton Sánchez, single and exclusive law, and besides, if you like, I'll repeat it again: it's the Housing Plan; it's in a case twenty years and in another case thirty years. And yet the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo did not disagree with these families, it mediated between the estate and also between the families, and it's more, it called on the municipality to join the Empty Housing Program. That was also done, and I can tell you what the outcome is. Why? Because, in fact, we have to give alternatives, and the alternatives dance among us all. And as they do among themselves and the law must be fulfilled, because there are programs, such as the accession of the council to this programme, which would lead to the possibility that these people would continue to live in Chamber, they would continue to live in the area, and in addition they would give them the possibility of a rental bonus, so that over three years - renewable to six years - they would have the corresponding bonuses, in addition to receiving an aid of 8,000 euros for the rehabilitation or adequacy of the housing that they have acceded to this programme. This was jobs, this was negotiations and this was brokering between the parties, so what we communicate about the property is that they continue to rent these homes, that they are making bonuses to those owners who are up-to-date at rent payment, and, on the other hand, there is the possibility -with the council, of course - of being attached to this program, to the empty housing program, which is what is going on in the rest of Spain, and which, in addition, you always loved to put a whipping block so you wouldn't get out of the way. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But the Greeks and the Greeks have to know that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u359	Mr. Sánchez, really, shut up. He's been talking for three minutes. She's answering the counseling lady. Please listen; listen, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u360	The Empty Housing Program is free, Mr. Sánchez, for the municipalities, assuming the Galego Institute of Living and Soil the costs of multi-risk insurance and non-payments, of those who benefit freely from the housing belonging to it. The Galego Institute of Housing and Solo also fully finances the rehabilitation and adequacy of these homes, as well as what I told you earlier, gives you the help through the social rent bonus. So it's true that we all have to get to work, but it's also true that this county joined the program in 2016, and in 2017 it decided that it would not be better to join, but rather to join the program. You have the chance to do it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u361	Thank you very much, Counselor, your time is up. Question by Mr Martín Fernández Prado and six other Members of the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, about the state of work to bring the benefits of the Public Transport Plan of Galicia to the whole of the territory
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u362	To put the question you have the floor Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u363	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Good afternoon, gentlemen. I hope I can ask the question, because I've already had the impression that I saw a BNG gentleman wearing Vox's green. The truth is you have to be grateful, Mr Bará, because you have a Member in Madrid thanks to Vox. Anyway, I've always hoped that what the T-shirt was going to bring would be PSOE's leader, which is what's fattening, but, well. [[Applause]] After this joke... it's what's getting fat... but, well... [[Laughter]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's go to the question. I think I can do it now. At the beginning of the legislation, the German Government undertook that this would be the legislating of transport in Galicia, advancing both in the rearrangement of the map of lines and in the drive of the necessary infrastructures. And so it is. In recent times, much of the work done by the Council is focusing, precisely, on the modernization of the transport of road travellers; a work that comes with excellent results and which is having a very good reception by the citizens. The Council has already carried out an intense planning work in 2017, with the aim of ensuring the transport service to all Greeks, let's remember, after the resignation of certain companies to follow the provision of the service, but also working towards the future, aimed at strengthening and providing better territorial coverage, mainly in rural areas. Following the launch of the first services in August 2017, which mainly covered the provinces of Ourense and Lugo, and also some areas of the Coruña and Pontevedra, in February of last year, the Government announced the bidding of the studies corresponding to the planning of the Public Transport Plan of Galicia already in its entirety, to offer an interurban transport service of modern road travellers and meet the real needs of citizens. In recent months, Junta has been making a huge effort to achieve this goal, wishing for new long-term transport contracts, economically balanced and aimed at shielding employment in the sector and services, and thinking especially in the rural neighbourhoods. In spite of this, the transport federations and trade unions have appealed against the concessions made by the public service for the regular carriage of passengers by road to the Administrative Court of Public Procurement of the Community. These appeals were dismissed, as we all know, by the so-called court. Therefore, public road transport in Galicia continues to advance despite the particular interests or partisans of some against it. That is why we are asking the following question in full: how are the work progressing towards bringing the whole territory closer to the benefits of the Galician Public Transport Plan? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u364	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Prado. Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u365	Thank you, President. Well, ladies and gentlemen, since the Galician Summit we are moving forward in the implementation of the Galician Public Transport Plan, a European obligation, and in which this European obligation is a unique opportunity to have public transport in our community, more useful for citizens, more environmentally sustainable, economically viable, that guarantees employment and hence public transport that has a future in Galicia. More modern public transport, which responds to the needs of the Greeks. As we've always said and said, we want it to be the legislating of transport, so we're working all over the infrastructure, the intermodal stations, the reform of bus stations and also the services, boosting public transport and facilitating public transport. We do important field work and public participation in exploitation projects, active listening and active participation so that the transport lines respond effectively to the needs of the Greeks. They know that in 2016 there were waivers of certain companies that continued to provide the lines, in 2017 we renewed these lines for two years so that Galicia would not stay a single day without transport, despite the fact that others did, and so in April 2019 we had to bid 98 public transport contracts that will operate in Galicia in the next decade. We are talking about the entire province of Ourense, the province of Lugo, the part of Coruña and the part of Pontevedra. It's 1,900 lines with which we'll multiply by 2.5 kilometers of public transport. The federations have intercepted resources, won them at the Galician Union, it's true, and those locks are very small traps for minor delays. In any case, we're earning all the resources, and after a titanic job in these months -- I assure you that it's titanic that work -- we've managed to help and sign 78 public transport contracts today, the first 78 contracts that will operate this decade, 426 million euros of public funds for 1,368 lines, 12,700 stops, 1,081 shared lines, 846 services on demand and 1,350 guaranteed jobs. There are 7 plus 13, which are about to be examined. So all over Galicia, these 98 contracts will be hired and in service in January. In January we will also bid for the 30 remaining contracts to operate in the rest of the Coruña and the rest of Pontevedra, and therefore in 2020 the full and comprehensive renewal of public transport in Galicia will be completed. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u366	Thank you very much, Counselor. You have the floor, for the reply, Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u367	Thank you very much, Counselor, for your answer. It has already advanced in this first reply the signature of the first transport contracts to start next year - I think it said in January these first 98 - as well as the forecast to bid the next pending batch. On this second occasion, I would like to ask you whether you can further implement the proposals and deadlines for the extension of some of these services, in particular — one of the best-received by citizens in the first phase. I'm talking about the extension of transport to demand and shared to the whole territory; a shared transport, which, by the way, demonized some in this plenary and said it was going to be chaos. But none of this happened; fortunately, it's being a success. As we have seen in the budgets, it has planned budgets to continue to extend all these services, and not only these but also the New People's Card for older boys or the progressive application to the whole territory. Of course, another important branch of his council is to expand urban transport; in particular, I refer to that possibility of expanding service especially in cities that did not have it, such as Pontevedra. What are the possibilities and deadlines for incorporating this public transport? I think they're already making progress in this dialogue with the municipality in this urban transport, in particular in Pontevedra; I don't know if I could explain what these lines are, what these services will consist of, and whether there's any calculation of the cost that this urban transport can have for the municipality. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u368	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Prado. For the reply by the Government, Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u369	Thank you, President. So today, as I said, we signed 78 new contracts from the Galician Public Transport Plan, which will start operating in January. In January we will also bid about 30 to operate in the summer of 2020 and thus have ensured better public transport in Galicia. The truth is that we are at the vanguard of Spain, all autonomous communities are looking at and analyzing everything we do -- that's right, I'm sorry to tell them, but that's right, and others like it. [[Murmurs.]] And we are completely renewed for more efficient and more sustainable public transport. All in all, we're talking about 130 new public transport contracts, EUR 1.2 billion in turnover and EUR 730 million in public funds from Galician Union; contracts that mean that in 2016, before the Public Transport Plan, they were 28 million miles a year, not adapted to the needs of the Greeks, and that by 2020 we were able to increase 118% of services, to have more and better services, with 61 million miles a year thanks to this Public Transport Plan. That's thanks to this initiative of the Galician Union. We will extend to Galicia the modes of shared transport, of demand transport. Since 2017, 300,000 people have been able to use these empty school transport squares, 11,300 people have also had transportation services thanks to demand transport. With the Galician Public Transport Plan, users can have the advantages of metropolitan transport for all of Galicia. This card, which is used only in the metropolitan areas, will be able to use all the Welsh and all the Galicians throughout Galicia, extending the advantages of the Metropolitan Transport Plan with bonus rates: bonuses to users with free transfers, bonuses to regular users and bonuses for numerous families, because we think about our families. The New People's Card will be extended to 21 years for next year, and we will also extend this New People's Card to all of Galicia. The New People's Card is a measure launched in 2016 for children under 19. We were able to use 54,200 New People's cards. And the 1st of January, as we will extend it to 21 years, because it will increase to 42,000 Thursdays more, and we will expand it throughout Galicia. Galician board accounts allow us to have our public transport. And about Pontevedra's question, the truth is that transport in Pontevedra's municipality is within its competence. But by comparing it to Lugo, we have 21 lines, 600,000 kilometers, 2 million euros a year; in Pontevedra Town Hall, 120,000 euros, 2 lines, 200,000 kilometers; minimum urban transport that wants the Pontevedra Town Hall and which is of its competence. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u370	Thank you, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Mr Miguel Állado Filgueira and eight other Members of the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, about the actions being carried out by the Government of Greece in front of the Central Government in relation to the lack of solutions for the development of a fair and orderly energy transition that does not involve the closure of thermal power plants without offering industrial alternatives in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u371	To put the question, Mr. King Varela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u372	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Counsellor, since the announcement of the closure of the bridge thermal power plant, as a result of the decisions of the Government of Sanchez, the People's Party has defended the need for a fair energy transition. From this ecological transition the Government has assumed in Madrid, and from our point of view it has not been a transition, because it means only rupture, nor is it fair, because its weight rests with the workers and transporters of the regions of Ferrolterra, Eume, Ortegal, Terra Tea and The Navy. We defend this position in all forums and councils, in which today's transporters have been locked up nothing more than 100 days, without finding answers and without finding the solidarity of any representative of the central government; in this Parliament, where we were the first to bring the situation of thermals; in Madrid, manifesting ourselves alongside the workers and meeting with them in Congress; and in the Ministry, in which the Council of Galicia made its position very clear. Yesterday even those affected ended up in the Coruña a 75-kilometre march for a fair energy transition. We truly regret that we have not found the Socialist Party on this issue; as always, they have opted for silence and even applaud the decisions of the Sánchez Government, for the very hurtful things that these were for our industry and for our employment. We have only had a reasonable interlocutor in the Socialist Party in the mayor of the Bridges, not in many of these seats. On the other hand, the Galician Union and the majority of the parliamentarians who support it are always working with the workers for a fair and orderly transition, betting for the maintenance of the work in the factory, betting for the maintenance of the jobs — 700, almost all of them directly — and knocking at the doors of the European Commission so that the Bridges could accommodate the European funds for this purpose, which will be launched in 2021. That's why, Counsellor, we asked you: what is the Galician Union doing to the Central Government to correct its lack of solutions to develop a fair and orderly energy transition that does not involve the closure of thermal power stations without offering industrial alternatives in Galicia and above all in affected areas? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u373	Thank you very much, Mr. King Varela. Mr. Conde López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u374	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Rey, indeed, the priority that the Galician Union has moved both to the Central Government and to Endesa is to safeguard the more than 700 jobs that are currently in danger, both directly linked to the plant of the Bridges and those of the auxiliary companies and the carriers, who are suffering significant losses due to the lack of activity in the thermal power plant. Some people want to lock down the bridge center, just like they did to the Meirama center, but, of course, this government, the Galician Union, is not willing to shut down the center. We understand that the temporary reactivation of the plant is the only opportunity we have if we want to access, without leaving anyone behind — workers, auxiliary industries, carriers — the aid for a fair energy transition that the European Union will push from the year 2021. That's why we appreciate the commitment we made last week from both the minister for the Ecological Transition and through Endesa to reassess technical tests and to check the cost of making a progressive substitution of coal for other energies. At the same time, it is also true that I do not hide it from you that we expect that the lack of conviction of President Sánchez in his conversation with President Feijóo does not mean a lack of interest in the future of the bridge plant. As we don't expect Endesa to stay behind and therefore Endesa to keep that commitment too. The important thing, ultimately, is that the Government, through the Ministry of Ecological Transition, and that Endesa begin to respond from an energy point of view, from a labour point of view and from an economic point of view, so that The Bridges, the district of Ferrolterra and Galicia also have a powerful response to give this plant viability. We're working together on the Galician Union — through the Inega — and the Bridge Council, in a unit of action, to collaborate with the Ministry, to collaborate with Endesa. And we hope both the Ministry and Endesa give that answer, because that's the mandate that transfers the European Commission, because that's the right thing for the workers and why that's the right thing for Galicia to have a concrete answer. Galicia does not count on the mechanisms that the Government of the State has to secure the necessary funds, and that is why we need it is precisely that the Government is involved, that the company is involved. Of course, they will have the Galician Union and the Council of Bridges working to find that solution and that opportunity for the workers of the central, the auxiliaries and the transporters.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u375	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u376	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u377	Mr. King Varela has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u378	Thank you very much, Counselor, for your reply, for your work and for the commitment of the Galician Union. And we wanted to ask you from this group to continue to defend today's workers and above all — if I may — the workers tomorrow. Because I know that probably all or many of us here think different things about the energy transition. But I, who really lived as a child what was industrial conversion and how was Europe to blame for this conversion, what was the effect of this conversion to meet the parameters that came from Europe? That was followed, that the construction in the south was strengthened and dismantled, that construction in the northern yards was not converted. What was the consequence — indeed tragic — for these comarcas? The first, depopulation; the second, the highest unemployment rates in all of Galicia; and the third, the highest poverty rates in all of Galicia. So I think when we talk about this, we have to talk less and see what the effect of unplanned action is on the territory. Here we are not talking exclusively about energy transition — which we are also — about the employees of the central and their families, we are talking about the carriers — many of them have invested in the renewal of their truck to adapt to the new energy parameters of more than 100,000 euros and mortgaged their homes by request and quiet of the Government and of the company — we are talking about the auxiliary industry, we are talking about the future of the port of Ferrol and its jobs, we are talking about the impact on the electrointensives — the following companies in our region — Megasa and Alcoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u379	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u380	Therefore, Counselor, we believe that it is not enough work...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u381	Thank you, Mr. Count.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u382	...no less silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u383	Thank you very much. Mr. Conde López has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u384	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr King, it is true that there is a debate in society, that there is a debate in government and that there is a debate in the productive fabric on sustainability, about the fight against climate change. But it is no less certain that in that Galician debate you have a very clear position. We are aware that Galicia is green, but above all we are aware that Galicia wants to be even greener. But to be greener must be fully compatible with a fair energy transition in which job maintenance is guaranteed and in which, therefore, it is not the current workers who have to pay the economic cost of that transition. The Galician Union does not defend the maintenance of coal, which it defends, what it is defending, are the families that today depend on these technologies and that come to endanger its way of life by an abrupt closure of the thermal power plant of the Bridges, when in the whole of Europe there are still 149 thermal power stations, which remain active with the same conditions in which it is operating at the moment the thermal power plant of the Bridges. That is why the transition, if we really want it to succeed in this debate of all society, of governments and of our own productive fabric, must necessarily be carried out in a just and inclusive way. And, of course, not all member states, regions and cities are starting the transition from the same point or having the same response capacity. The Government of Spain must be aware of this reality. And that's why in Galicia we are particularly aware, we are doing our duties from the point of view of that energy transition, and what we expect is that there is a political response from the Government of the Socialist Party and that there is a political response from the European Commission as well. We must be aware that Spain has not yet approved its energy transition strategy, that's reality, and we must be aware that in the European Union they have not yet defined their aid mechanisms, which will be implemented from the year 2021. In this context, what we think is fair to the current workers of the Bridges is that they are given an equal opportunity of conditions that the other workers of the 149 thermal power stations and that we can therefore reopen the activity of the bridge plant, which is committed by effective Endesa and by the Ministry of Ecological Transition so that the plant can be reactivated and so that we can opt for those alternatives that will be available to workers in Galicia through European funds and national funds. That's where Galicia has to find opportunities for bridge workers, transporters and auxiliary industries.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u385	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u386	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u387	Let's move on to the next question. Question from Patricia Otero Rodríguez and four other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the predictions of the Galician Council regarding mediation in the crisis of the company Muebles Hermida, Lourenzá, and the search for a plan of viability to guarantee its activity and jobs
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u388	To put the question, Mrs. Otero Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u389	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Welcome, Mr. Count. From the Socialist Group we also want to greet the members of the company committee of Furniture Hermida, Lourenzá, and also its mayor, who today accompany us. The company Muebles Hermida, in Lourenzá, is going through a new crisis that compromises its viability, jeopardizing activity and jobs. And I'm saying a new crisis, because the company has been fired in recent years and applied the ERE. The situation you are now going through Hermida Furniture affects almost 100 families in the Navy, as the workers and employees of the company have not paid their wages for four months. On 2 December this same year, the Lourenzá Council itself, aware of the situation, unanimously adopted an agreement by the plenary, in which, in addition to showing support to the workers of this company, they called for the involvement of other administrations, notably the Galician Council and the Lugo Deputies themselves, as well as the parliamentary groups. On December 9th, Muebles Hermida's management informed the legal representatives of the workers that the company was going to apply for the voluntary tender of creditors. It is a company that has been located among the top ten manufacturers of furniture at the national level and which is the largest municipality in Lourenzá. Today it's in a complicated situation and needs a plan of viability. That's why we from this group ask you, just as the committee itself does, that on the part of the Council of Galicia measures to secure these jobs, putting forward an irrevocable condition as is the payment of late wages. And look, Mr. Conde, the Council of Galicia has something to say and also do to mediate this conflict, as it must be remembered that Junta has given this company a great deal of help. We understand that this is a justification for the Board to involve itself and even ensure that those millions, in aid from the Igape, are not in vain, because these aids should be conditional on job creation and setting up industry and population. The importance of these aids would be to ensure the viability of the company. We raise the concern of the Town Hall and also of the workers themselves, and that's why we bring this question to this House today. Because Hermida's situation has not occurred overnight, the workers have already come to announce it with that delay in payroll; now -- as I said -- they owe them four months. And, of course, since you're running by impulses, we learned yesterday that exactly today the company committee was quoted for a meeting with the Igape, something that we didn't criticize, because precisely we're asking for measures here, but, of course, you're coming a little late, because this concern was already being transferred from the company committee itself...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u390	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u391	That's why we asked him to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u392	Thank you very much. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u393	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Otero, thank you for transferring to this Parliament the concern about the situation of Furniture Hermida and, therefore, of its workers and its business committee, to which I convey my greeting and, above all, the sensitivity of the Government to its situation. Look, Mrs. Otero, we don't need any kind of justification to meet the needs of workers in Galicia. Any company that's going through difficulties knows you have an ally in the Galician Union to be able to find solutions and, therefore, to ensure the viability of your jobs, whether or not there's prior help. There is, therefore, no need to link the past to the present reality. In any case, we're working from the very first moment -- you think it's late for the information and you don't have all the information about how the Galician Union is acting, but I can transfer it -- From the very first moment, even before we were in this situation, we've been in touch with the company and, indeed, we've visited it, kept in touch with the contest administrator and kept in touch with the company committee. So what we're working on is to find the best possible solution to keep industrial activity and employment. So we'll keep the dialogue open. We'll identify from realism. I'd ask you not to ask the Galician Board for any kind of measure that would be illegal. So, from realism, we'll try to identify alternatives that make this project viable and with which we can pool our efforts on everyone's part. We will continue to contact the contest administrator and will continue to contact the company committee, finding and seeking that support. We did it, Mrs Otero, in 2016, when we lent a loan through the European Investment Bank for half a million euros, just as you did in 2008, when you gave a loan of EUR 5.4 million to the company. So, Mrs Otero, don't come to politics with the workers in this Parliament. The workers don't deserve it. The workers deserve a unique response from parliamentary groups, from the Galician Union, to try to resolve their situation. Come here trying to politicize a business business and the viability of a company is not own, it's rather inappropriate. It certainly belongs to the present Socialist Party. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u394	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Otero Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u395	Thank you, President. Mr. Conde, the previous question also came from a member of your parliamentary group, and you were also asking about a company. What's the difference between the question they ask you from that bench and this one? malcolm. hunter@gmx. co. uk [[Applause]] I've moved this situation that the workers of Muebles Hermida are living in, from my county, and I'll move it as often as possible. But, look, the Members of the People's Parliamentary Group can also ask, and not only ask to vote and give a pipe to the central government, they can also ask to try to solve the problems of our region...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u396	Mr. Vega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u397	Yes, Mr. Vega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u398	Mr. Vega!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u399	And, look, I don't know if I expressed myself badly, but I never asked the Galician Council to commit any illegality. I asked you to measure the crisis in the Hermida Furniture in Lourenzá to achieve a plan of viability that keeps that activity and jobs. I never told you or asked you to commit any illegality. What I'm trying to say is that they're not mere spectators, that they don't feel like waiting to see if the problem is solved; that I think it's very good that they've met and received the workers in the Igape today. But did I ever criticise the help? I've never criticised the help this company received. What I'm saying is that they are not mere spectators and that they follow up on the aid that companies receive, so that these aids, in the end, do not serve and do not fall into a broken bag. Because, look, the important thing is that these companies are viable, the important thing is that these companies are kept busy, and the important thing is that jobs are kept in our neighborhood. So I'm the only one asking you to measure within the legal channels to try to solve the problem of Furniture Hermida. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u400	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. For the Government's reply, Mr. Economic Counsellor, Employment in Industry, Mr. Conde has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u401	All right. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Otero, it's good that you look at the popular party's ideas, because they probably reorder your vision of industrial policy in Galicia. Look, you're urging me to do something we're already doing. So, of course, if you want to get into that loop, because it's really very complicated. I've already moved you that from the very first moment we're in contact with the company, from the first moment we're in contact with the contest administrator...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u402	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u403	...from the first moment we're in contact with the company committee, just trying to mediate to identify with realism what alternatives there might be in the Hermida Furniture to give them viability at the jobs. That's what we're working on. Surely what the workers of the Hermida Furniture deserve today is that in this Parliament all parliamentary groups are united in defending their interests. That's what they deserve. What they don't deserve is to try to transfer doubts from the point of view of the action of the Galician Union, as you tried to move in your question. In any case, from the Unity of Galicia what if we are to make available to Furniture Hermida is all the instruments we have, through Igape and through Xesgalia, to find that solution. We have a new programme of aid for workers and businesses affected by employment regulation files, precisely from the social dialogue reached with the main trade unions and business organisations, and we have also increased the funding for industries affected by the slowdown in economic growth, or, as is the case for Furniture Hermida, which are causing political uncertainties in Spain or around it. They are all instruments that will be at the service of the Hermida Furniture, precisely to identify a project that will allow it to give its viability; therefore, that the current workers can give it viability. What workers don't need, of course, is good words without action. You're used to saying good words, moving commitments that you then don't live up to. I ask the Socialist Party to change its policy of words and not of fact. I mean, specifically, his position with regard to Navantia, Alcoa, Ferroatlantics and Bridges... all words without content that give no concrete answers. [[Murmurs.]] I hope that, in the case of Hermida Furniture, you will stand alongside the Galician Union, because that's what the workers of Hermida Furniture expect, and what they logically expect, the workers of Lourenzá. If they change their opposition, they join the unity of action with the Galician Union, with the rest of the parliamentary groups, and from there, surely the workers will also thank the Socialist Party for their position. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u404	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Da Luca Chao Pérez and Da Maria de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda, from G.P. Joint Left Group, on the reasons of the German Government not to count the repeater student in the calculation of student ratios by class
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u405	To formalize the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Chao Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u406	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Look, today, our parliamentary group brings to this House a very, very specific question: what are the reasons why they justify not accounting for the student repeater in the calculation of ratios by class? And we could even simplify it even more: on what rules is such a decision based? Because, by reviewing everything, you'll see that you're nowhere to be found. It's been said to be a very simple question, and yet we've been here for three years trying to have some concrete, unsuccessful answer. We expect it to be today. Because, as you know, what you have to do with the need to reduce the number of students per class is a common cry throughout the educational community; it is common for the entire educational community. Well, as is natural, everyone knows that dry classes end up being synonymous with less quality. Having many children and children in the classroom makes it difficult for them to give personal attention to themselves, makes it difficult for teachers and teachers to devote themselves fully, and ultimately makes it difficult to get better results. However, the Teaching Council has the ugly habit of trying to confuse citizenship, always using that trap of statistics, by virtue of which we have very low ratios, and mixing in the same package in the middle of urban and rural classes. That's a statistical trap that everybody knows about because of which if we have two people and two by which we say that the average is one chicken per person. But it may actually be that one person like two chickens and another happens to be hungry. This is what really happens in this country, you know perfectly well, we have very small rural classes that obviously reduce the average number, but this does not hide the real fact that in urban centers we have saturated classes. But if this wasn't enough, if the statistical trap wasn't enough, the Teaching Council still has another one in its sleeve, a secondary trap, which is, as you know, the invisibility of the repeater student; that magic trick by virtue of which they pull out about 10% of the entire classroom student, which is about the percentage of the repeater student we have in this country; a figure, in fact, quite high and which, of course, would have to work to reduce it. This fact, as I say, magic makes all of a sudden 10 percent of the students in the classroom disappear, and of course, as I said at first, it's not endorsed by any regulations. We also think that it is a direct attack on educational quality, because, as you know, student by class is a determining factor when we talk about the quality of education. Besides, if we made a real commitment, we'd be seeing how many needs are unmet, we'd be seeing how it's necessary to get back the 1,200 teachers you deleted in the last decade. That's why we want to ask you again: what reasons do they justify the non-accounting of the student repeater in the calculation of ratios by class?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u407	Thank you very much, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u408	Is there any other reason not strictly economic?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u409	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pomar Tojo has the floor of the Councillor for Education, University and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u410	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Mrs. Chao, as I have explained in this House, before each course the Council has an obligation to plan, regulate and administer regulated education throughout its scope: levels, degrees, modalities, specialties... under state and autonomous legislation, the activity of educational centres is organized, taking into account pedagogical, demographic, geographic and resource management criteria. The truth is, you've already raised a question similar to and as concrete to that which was discussed at the first plenary session of February 2018, so you know the answer, as much as you're trying to transfer a serial criticism against the Council again. The educational administration has to manage reality and make compatible with different needs: the need for ordinary schooling; the need for the right that a student or student educated or educated at a school has to stay in the center and at the same level; or the need to be able to meet immediate needs for the schooling of the late-incorporation student due to the transfer of the family unit, family shelter or other. With regard to the distribution of students in the classroom, I mean that the concept of "maximum level of pupils per unit" in a strict sense is a normative concept -- as you speak of legislation -- established by state and autonomous legislation. Article 157(1)(a) of Organic Law 2/2006 of 3 May 2006 provides for a maximum number per class, which will be in compulsory education from 25 to primary and 30 to compulsory secondary education. Royal Decree 132/2010 of 12 February, which contains basic legislation on the minimum requirements of schools providing second-cycle primary and secondary education, provides in Article 7 that teaching centres offering the second-cycle of children shall have at least 25 pupils per school unit; in Article 11 that primary education centres shall have at least 25 pupils per school unit; and in Article 16 that secondary schools shall have at most 30 pupils per compulsory secondary school unit; and 35 in bachelor's degree. Specifically, we follow the autonomic regulations, in the context of the student admission process in teaching centres supported by public funds. Article 4 of the Education Council Order of 12 March 2013 makes an explicit reference to this issue for the estimation of vacancies. The number of pupils and pupils per school unit to be used to estimate vacancies at each level is as follows: according to the cycle of children and primary, 25, compulsory secondary education, 30; Bachelor's degree, 33. This general rule has the exceptions - not traps, but exceptions - in Article 87.2 of the LOE: the possibility of increasing the maximum number of pupils and students per class in public and private centres in the same school area, either to meet the immediate needs of schoolchildren by family unit transfer or by family reception.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u411	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u412	In view of what you say, I reiterate that in Galicia no larger ratios have been applied either in the years of economic crisis.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u413	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pomar. Mrs. Chao Pérez has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u414	The question was simple, he didn't give a single word to answer it. We insist: what are the reasons that justify the non-accounting of the student repeater in the classroom ratios? In the legislation you cited there is no point, no end, that justifies that measure. The question is concrete; then don't put in my mouth things that I didn't say. That's the only question, there's no other one on the table. Please, you've still got a chance to answer this and take your time to tell us what you're going to do from the Council so the legal ratios can be met. Or can you come here to say that there are no classes in this country where the legal figures are being exceeded? Because this is in the courts, it's documented cases. Not to mention the repetitive student, even with his misleading figures, they're getting over it. But we are going to insist, we have asked you to clarify why you are accounting and also ask you to correct, for a matter of pure common sense, Counsellor, because precisely the very fact that there is a repeater student indicates that you need more attention. So, not only would you have to count it, but even make an extra effort. Likewise, what we had to do was apply a multiplier coefficient so that a repeater student not only didn't count, but it had to count 1.5 or 2. We would be asking him to apply the common sense and want the best education system for this country, and we would ask him for people who have specific educational needs, for the same criterion: common sense. Clearly, students with specific needs need more attention. If we count it as another specific student, it can happen in any classroom in this country, which, for example, in a class that respects the legal maximum, a secondary school with 30 students, there are 4 people with specific educational needs, plus 3 repeaters and repeaters. It would be within the law, in your opinion, but is it quality? Is this what the Galicia School Council understands by quality?, have a classroom with 33 people, of which they decide to count only 30, with 4 people with special educational needs and 3 people who repeat courses? We, of course, think that this is not quality, that this is only saving.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u415	Thank you very much, Mrs Chao. For the Government's reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Pomar Tojo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u416	Thank you very much, President. I also insist, Mrs. Chao, and, besides, I don't put in your mouth things that you didn't say. I spoke of a question you asked in February 2018 with reference to this very subject. You take the argument and don't really worry about how things work in Galicia. The subject of repeaters. It's the teaching teams and not the Council that decide about the student or student who needs to strengthen their training by repeating a course. And here's the data of school absenteeism and dropout in Galicia. The courses last as long as they last, so you have to make the schooling processes compatible with the completion of the exams in September and also with the start of the new course. In any case, do not transfer doubts or sow false ideas. The Council fulfils the prevailing legislation on ratios by class, as we do in fact as well as other autonomous communities, where they apply the same practice as Galicia with respect to repeaters. The advanced maximum student ratios per unit established for each educational stage by state and Galician legislation are generally taken into account for the normal development of student admission processes in publicly funded centres and also serve as a basis for the study of possible changes in units and jobs of teaching centres dependent on the Council. On an annual basis, this board studies the situation of the units and the teaching posts in order to adapt the organization of the centres to the actual needs of the population to be educated. The procedure starts with the student admission process and ends at the start of the new course, after the extraordinary registration period, which develops in September for the student who suspended some material in the ordinary evaluation and had to be examined in that month. And of course all of this without prejudice to the variations of the student that can occur throughout the academic course for extraordinary reasons of admission provided for in the current legislation; I insist, transfers, incorporation into the system, family reception, situations of harassment, violence. I'm done. Education administration meets and makes decisions about real needs once detected, but as a general rule and given our demographic and territorial peculiarities, we cannot talk about massification in Greek education. And actually, given the statistics, Galicia has much lower student/teacher ratios and classroom ratios than the average state average, and that data from other autonomous communities, in which repeaters integrate in a completely similar way. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u417	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Mr Luis Villares Naveira and three other Members of the G.P. Mixto, about the reasons of Galician board to bet on private university to the detriment of the public
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u418	To put the question, Mr. Villares Naveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u419	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counsellor, see if we're luckier now in the afternoon than the other group had in the morning when asking about the private university and seeing if you don't tell us some tricks like the president of Galicia told us about this time. And I say this because it was claimed, for example, that within the patronage of the Abanca foundation there were people who had been designated by En Marea, given that it is absolutely false, that we contrast. So, if you want, you can either deny it or confirm what your boss said this morning. We want to ask you why you are opening the doors to a bank that wants to vamp the public university system of Galicia and why that insistence of the Government of Feijóo, of its government, on moving forward with a system of which the very principals of the universities have noted the serious irregularities and legal offences being committed. We know that this is part of a strategy, but getting to the point of failing to do so in spite of all the legal decisions that are being violated seems absolutely unacceptable to us. We say it's part of a public university strategy or dismantling, because we've been in public university for several years since the university can't grow in number of students in the more demanding titrations because of the limitations imposed by Galicia's own board, the growth of squares in the most demanding titrations. In this way, it is generating a sort of expectation that is not artificially satisfied with the limitations of the Galician Union, which gives students remaining outside to either go to private universities outside Galicia or look for resources in other university systems, when, perfectly, the University of Galicia was prepared to accommodate all the squares that were demanded by students. So we know that this is part of a planned asphyxiation, a prepared asphyxiation, which is also linked to a radical system of funding from public universities that suffocates not only teaching but also research from the Greek universities. Now we see the colophon through this pre-project processing which, in the exposure process, is plagued with irregularities that you, however, insist on obvious. I say irregularities that also leave public universities so helpless that they can't defend themselves because they don't really know what the scope of that project is, like the whole of citizenship, that we can't get out in public defense simply because we lack data; with inflation, by the very fact, of good government law. I also say this because, as you do not ignore, if you are obvious in that preliminary draft a series of documents that are those that understand, for example, the justifiable memory, their legality, the correctness or the opportunity. There's no report on their socio-economic relevance, and he can't have it, besides, Counsellor, because it's obvious that three universities have enough capacity to solve all the demand for students and also all the demand for research that our country has. It also notoriously violates the procedure established by the Organic Law of Universities and the Law of the University System of Galicia. Don't tell me what the offer is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u420	Thank you very much, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u421	...minimum academic of official qualifications. Neither is the research programming of that so-called university...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u422	Time's up. Thank you very much, Mr. Villares. Your time is up. Mrs. Pomar Tojo has the floor of the Councillor for Education, University and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u423	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon again. Mr. Villares, the first thing to be clear is that the Union has a clear commitment to the fulfilment of the current legislation, both in administrative matters and in university matters, and that the Union is guided by the coordination of the Galician university system, always respecting university autonomy. I don't think the accusations of lack of transparency are fair, nor is that supposed private university to the detriment of the public university. With them it is intended only to sow doubts and generate alarm on a subject that responds to the one provided in the legislation. Your refusal seems to me to be ideological, but it does not respond to the regulations. You speak of noncompliance, for you will understand that no responsible government is failing to comply with the current legislation, since it would be an offence, as you well know. Let me literally read article 12 of the Galician University System Act to contextualize what we are talking about today in this chamber: "The creation of public universities and the recognition of private universities will be carried out by Parliament Act of Galicia, when they meet the basic requirements required in the Organic Law of Universities, in this law, as well as in the regulatory provisions that are stated in their development, after reporting on the agency for the quality of the Galician University System, the Galician Council of Universities and the General Conference on University Policy." Recently, following a process of more than one still open process, the Galego Council of Universities has positively informed the preliminary draft law of recognition of the Intercontinental University of the Company, promoted by that foundation of which you were talking, the Galicia Foundation Social Work, Affirmation. Thus, the Intercontinental University of the Company, driven by this foundation, is, today, a proposal or a request contained in Article 27 of the Constitution, still open after a long administrative process, in which it contains, on December 13, 2018, a report of socio-economic relevance. It is still open — as I said — and its creation or will not depend, first, on the fulfilment of the requirements laid down by that state university legislation and by the autonomous law of the Galician university system, which is the most restrictive of the state, and second, and I insist, it will not be created by the Galician board, but, if it is the case, it will be done through a law that will be debated in this parliament as the last step after a comprehensive and complex administrative process. The Council therefore respects the legitimate concern of the principals regarding the novelty of this private university project which is being processed in Galicia under legislation -- and so I also told the media -- but this process cannot be confused with the privatization of public universities or of the Galician university system. The Board has granted, and this is the root of what you are talking about, a stable funding to the Galician University System, to the point that Galicia is the third autonomous community by percentage of GDP for universities, according to the 2017 report of the University System Observatory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u424	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Villares Naveira has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u425	Well, Counselor, I see you didn't deny the mad Mr. President's in the morning, so let's give for a fact that crazy persists. With regard to this socio-economic report, we are talking about the presentation of reasons for a proposal that has the favourable report of socio-economic relevance of the competent body in university matters, but, if you check the documentation, to which anyone who examines the preliminary draft will be able to access, you will see that this report does not appear and, if it appears, we ask you to bring it to us or to signal us where it is, because it does not show up. But it's not our opinion, it's an opinion that the three universities also saw when they stood against each other. That report does not exist or, if it does exist, it has of course not been provided to them. So tell us what it is: if they have it and they don't want to hand it over, then we have to ask ourselves what it means, or if they have it and they've delivered it, as the three universities that voted against, precisely for that reason. Look, you tell me about current legislation and I want to quote to you the law of the Galician University System in relation to specific precepts that are not being complied with in this preliminary draft and that you are allowing them to pass equally without all that documentation. There is no minimum academic offer of official qualifications. There's no. It doesn't count on that. It's said only that there are different branches of knowledge in the legal field, in the field of engineering and architecture, without marking the corresponding titles, which is what the law establishes. There is also no appropriate research programming, something that the Royal Decree 420/2015 requires, a multi-annual programming of research in the scientific areas, which is said to be the strategy of scientific talent capture, such as the construction of technical-scientific infrastructures or how it collaborates with the productive sector of R+D+i. There's nothing about this, Counselor. That's a violation of the law, and those are prerequisites for starting the process of the project itself. Then tell us why it allows him to continue processing and we ask him, as a result, to withdraw that preliminary draft until he meets the legal requirements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u426	Thank you very much, Mr. Villares. Your time is up. For the Government's reply, Mrs. Pomar Tojo has the floor of the Councillor for Education, University and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u427	Thank you very much, President. On 4 October 2018, it has entered the documentation corresponding to the application for recognition of the International University of the Company. On 13 December 2018, the General Secretariat of Universities issued a report of socio-economic relevance to the request for recognition as a university, which makes a series of observations aimed at completing the documentation initially submitted by the entity and may initiate the processing of the file by this department. From January 16th to January 30th of 2019 the General Secretariat of Universities, through the Transparency Portal of the Galician Union, proceeds to make a public consultation prior to citizenship. On January 17, 2019 Afoundation is the foundation of the Intercontinental University of the Company, at the request of this council. This is how I can continue with the processing process until September 10, 2019, the day on which a fifteen-day public exposure process opens in order to receive approaches, suggestions to the published text, and in this period allegations are received from the University of Santiago, the University of Vigo and the University of Coruña, unique and exclusively. At present, Galicia does not have any private universities, but we must not forget that legislation, both state and Welsh, allows it, taking into account the requirements it must meet, including Article 13(g) of the Law of the University System of Galicia and others which collects the autonomous state legislation, as well as the agreement of the debate of the state of autonomy. If this entity is finally created, because this entity is not created, because it is the law passed in this parliament to which the last word is, it will not at all affect the Greek university system, nor the current offer, nor the future offer of public universities, nor the resources currently received by public universities, nor would it compete directly with any university. They compete with other online universities—on line, as they are now called—that if they are a real danger to the Galician university system. We looked forward to the universities being accessible, at the lowest rates — the president said this morning — we offered stable funding. In addition, Galicia was a pioneer at the state level in designing a Map of titrations up to 2021 which implies planning and rationalization of the academic offer. We have active the Plan of Excellence of the Galician University System. In the course of research Galicia has its own model with new measures, such as the stable funding line of research centres or the reinforcement of talent capture. We remain committed to the Galician university system, public, under the premise of maintaining and empowering what works, but since the Council we have advocated for facing new challenges, as long as they are at the brink of the current legislation. The Galician Union's bet is clear: we're with the three Greek universities as the Galician development engine. Finally insisting on the fact that this chamber has already been expressed and before the three directors, in relation to the creation by law of a private university in Galicia, taking into account the requirements that must be met: if it is created, it will not affect the Greek university system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u428	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Maria Ángeles Antón Vilasánchez and seven other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on the assessment made by the Government of Greece of public employment supply processes in the field of education in Galicia in recent years
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u429	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u430	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. The People's Group is aware that the teaching bodies, like the rest of those employed in the service of public administrations, were the collective that made them parapet at the hardest moments of the crisis. We recognize and value it, among other things, because many of us are part of that public sector to which Mr. Zapatero cut five percent of his salary. In addition, as we saw today morning, there was a special regulation aimed at rationalizing public spending on education in 2012. So as economic conditions were improving, the People's Party began to return rights and improve the working conditions of workers. The concept of working conditions for workers includes, from our point of view, various issues, such as wages or stability. With regard to wages, we must remember that the Council of Galicia has been able to put in place a remuneration agreement with the unions, which will place the remuneration of the Greek teaching bodies above the national average. This agreement is reflected in the budgets of the Autonomous Community which we approved yesterday. So, from January 1st, you can almost fully comply with that wage approval agreement, as the advisor commented in her explanatory appearance of the master lines by 2020 of your department. Precisely in this appearance, you, Counselor, advanced the intention of the Greek Government to offer an important OPE for the next exercise, indicating that your department was already working for this purpose, which is as much as to say that your council was working for the labour stability of teaching bodies. We have already commented on more than one occasion that Galicia is the lowest-rate community in the whole state, around 7 percent, following the last selective process in which 2,064 squares were convened in thirty-six different specialties. It's not a minor fact, which is possible because since 2009, the Galician Union has always maintained a public job offer for teachers, except in 2012. Counsellor, opposition groups always argue in the debate about this collective's decline by comparing the data of the total number of teachers in the 2008-2009 academic course with the current number. And, in fact, the data don't lie. There are 300 teachers less, but data also shows that there are many fewer pupils and students in the Greek classes and that there are many more specialists to meet diversity, or many more caregivers, and there will also be more mentors. But these data are not interesting, they're always obvious by the opposition. Finally, Counsellor, the Council, in a responsible management exercise, has been bringing up the Greek education to public resources, in such a way that we are the fifth Autonomous Community in student investment, behind two communities with a special regime. The effort made is evident that it is bearing fruit and is recognized in the recent PISA report, whose results we must know, but also reports from the Ministry of Education and Training. I'm done. From the Popular Group we're interested in knowing their valuation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u431	Thank you very much, Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez. Mrs. Pomar Tojo has the floor of the Councillor for Education, University and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u432	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon again. Mrs Antón, in fact, in recent months, both at the opening meeting of the 2019-2020 course and at the budgeting session, the Education Council has advanced its commitment to a public job offer for 2020 aimed at covering retirement replacement squares, reaching the highest permitted rate, and that it also included an interim stabilization process to strengthen Galicia as well as the community with the lowest interim rate in Spain. Aware of this commitment, on 28 November, the Council presented to the Board of Directors a report on the public employment supply 2020, on teaching staff squares that teach education, which collected an analysis of the evolution of opposition processes in education in recent years and the concrete proposal for next year, which was presented to the trade unions at a sectoral table held at the beginning of December, specifically on day 3. The data collected in this analysis point out that the oppositions convened in the educational field between 2005 and 2020 in Galicia had a total of 18,979 markets offered and that, of them, 66.8 percent were convened by the current Government of Galicia. The Education Council will convene by 2020 the oppositions with the largest number of squares in history, with 3,654, which exceeds by 17 percent the largest figure of the OPE teacher until now, the year 2007, with 3,125 squares. The 2020 WPA will involve an offer of 2,036 new revenue and 1,618 internal promotion sites and will cover some eighty-eight specialties, thirty of which have not been convened for a decade. With this proposal, already presented to the unions, the aim is to achieve an interim of 5 percent by 2020, as it had been ten years in 2010. I would like to point out that, for the first time in twelve years, there will be a strong bet on the cathedral squares in order to allow the teacher to reach the top of the professional teaching career. In total, there will be 1,300 squares for high school professors of official language schools and plastic arts and design, which means triple those convened in 2007. It must be remembered that access to the academic squares has been a demand for teachers for years, both because of the possibility that it offers to reach the highest point in the profession and because of the academic and wage benefits it assumes. As I said in this chamber, the Council continues to work for the Greek teachers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u433	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u434	Thank you for your answer. It is evidence, therefore, that this OPE will have a great impact on the teacher's collective and, as you explained, it serves several objectives. On the one hand, the consolidation of the peak of the professional career, with these academic squares, the internal promotion and the opening to the teaching career for new teachers and teachers. Without a doubt, this opening will return this collective to ten years ago, which will allow for further lowering this rate of inter-internity, thus giving stability to teaching employment in public education. Last Thursday, as you remembered, the Council of Government of the Galician Union approved this public job offer decree by 2020. So, we knew the total number of squares and their distribution, which you just underlined now. And there was one who criticized the adoption of the decree, so I'd like it in his closing reply to comment on this and, if possible, advance when and how and if you will fulfill the offer of this OPE. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u435	Thank you very much, Mrs. Antonio. For the Government's reply, Mrs. Pomar Tojo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u436	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Antón, I am grateful for the opportunity to explain that the Education Council, first of all, has actually brought to the Council a report with a balance sheet on the EPAs in education in recent years and the proposal for squares for the 2020 call. Next, in the Sectoral Bureau of Non-University Education, the Educational Administration presented to trade union organizations the widest public job offer in history: 3,654 places. And just, as you said, at last week's board of directors, following an ordinary process, he passed the public school offer decree for next year. It should be explained that the reason for forwarding this process a few months was to take advantage, for stabilization purposes, of the current set of certainty at the restorative rate that authorized us the 2017 Budget Act. With regard to education, we wanted to prevent economic uncertainty at the state level from impeding a call by 2020. I take advantage of it to state that the number of squares for each specialty will be specified in the corresponding order of summoning the oppositions. In this regard, the Education Council works to ensure that this call is published in the Official Journal of Galicia, expected, within the first quarter of 2020. The only thing that has changed in this respect for other years is that approval at the Board of Directors and publication in the Official Journal of Galicia of the public job offer decree. These two procedures must take place within this year 2019 in order to ensure the convening of as many squares as possible, taking advantage, for the purposes of stabilization, of the legal set-up, as it said, of certainty, of the reference to the replacement rate approaching Article 19.6 of Law 3/2017, of the 27 June, of general State budgets for 2017. Therefore, and in order for Galicia to continue the process of open teaching stabilization, and for the autonomous community to continue to be with the lowest rate of State interimity, it is necessary to adopt the OPE in accordance with the aforementioned standard before the end of this year 2019. The aim of this action is to achieve, as I said, an interim of 5 percent in 2020. I insist: the only change is that this year the OPE decree and the summons order are not published in the same year. The first procedure has already been approved in 2019 and the second one will be in the same year of testing. With reference to the call, which is where the number of squares per specialty is indicated, it follows the same deadlines as it has usually followed and includes the step, of course, by another sectoral table. The only change, I insist, is that this year the OPE decree and the summons are not published in the same year. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u437	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the forecasts of the Government of Greece regarding the attention of the recommendations of the Council of Europe and the derogation from the decree of plurilingualism
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u438	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u439	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Good afternoon to the councillor, too. Allow me also, first of all, to greet the people who accompany us today in this debate, who are also a good piece of work here in the Chamber, and who are members of the Bureau for Linguistic Standardization — Maceira Marks and Sara Seco — who have also wanted to participate in this question which we have asked you today, Mr Rodríguez, about the report of the Council of Europe on the fulfilment of the European Charter of Languages. A strong, clear and very direct report in its recommendations to the Government of Greece, which emanates from a text of obligation to comply as is the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages, of thanks to compliance since the Spanish State ratified it in 2011. And I say this because we've been listening to the President of the Board for a few days, but also the Secretary-General for Linguistic Policy, disregarding the letter, belittle the expert committee and, of course, none — that's nothing new — the recommendations of the report, doing what is best for them, and doing what they know best to do, which is to despise anyone who doesn't give them the reason, even if it's the Committee of Experts of the Council of Europe. [[Applause]] I also tell you that a President of the Board who says in public appearance that Linguistic Policy is a general direction shows, first, how little he cares about linguistic policy and, secondly, that he does not even know what the structure of the Government he presides is; but above all, he shows that ignorance is bold and has no limits. [[Applause]] The Council of Europe has three reports — in 2012, in 2016 and now in 2019 — warning the Council of Galicia about the failure to fulfil its obligations under the letter and asking them to respect and guarantee the linguistic rights of the Galicians and the Greeks. In the last report published just a few days ago, the Committee calls for the immediate abolition of limitations to teaching in English at all levels of education — limitations imposed by the People's Party in 2010, dynamizing the language consensus expressed by this Chamber in 2004. And what limitations are they? [[Applause]] Fundamentally, the decree, which forbids, prohibits!, imparting in the English language mathematics, physics and chemistry and technology. It also warns you, in particular, of the Council of Europe on the exclusion of the Greek language at the pre-school stage. We ask him for something very clear, which we have done many times: to derogate the decree and return to the linguistic consensus.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u440	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. The Councillor for Culture and Tourism, Mr. Rodríguez González, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u441	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor. Before I begin, I would like to point out a number of things, questions raised about this report by the Committee of Experts. I think, Mrs. Rodil, that you use a little strong terminology when you talk about "dignifying," "nothing"... when, simply, what we're putting on the table is objective data. It is an objective fact that this report was made without taking into account any inquiry into Greek society. Nowhere was a survey made; it's a meeting of experts, at which there was a Greek, in Oviedo, in 2018, and based on the opinions of that expert report, it's a theory, which could be better or worse, but what is true is that the working methodology -- I'm describing it, I'm not valuing it -- was that. On this issue there is another important issue, which is that it does not take into account the data recently published by the IGE. And here the Galego Institute of Statistics has published data based on a conscious and thorough research work and surveys to a lot of Greeks, based on very interesting data demonstrating the linguistic evolution of the last five years. What's happened in the last five years? What's happening is, for the first time, the downward trend is broken and today more people speak Greek than five years ago. There is a decline in the number of spokespersons, and there is a replay of the use of Welsh as a common language. There's also a very important data, and we can see that you don't see the effects of the decree that have been repeatedly questioning — by the way — from the judicial point of view and endorsed by Greek society — for many years. The effects are clear, i.e., today more than ever, the Greek society and the Greek students have full knowledge in balance of the two co-official languages. In fact, we have the largest percentage ever in Galicia of people who speak, read or write in English. And besides, there's another fact that's nothing smaller, and it's that Greek is the most commonly used co-official language throughout Spain -- much more than other autonomous communities that commonly claim nationalist governments. We're also used to the half-truths when you talk about breaking the language consensus, the great linguistic consensus that has been created in this country. You know as I do, perfectly, that in the Bipartite the Socialist Party had to follow the principles of the Block. In any case, I don't want to sound triumphalist. The data over the last few years are tremendously positive, but there's a lot to be done, and the truth is that the goal is to have a multilingual society, which is clearly an opportunity for the future, and not a monolingual society...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u442	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u443	...and a monolingual teaching as you plan. In fact, the data assesses the successes of the decree and the model of education in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u444	Thanks a lot, time's up. Mrs. Rodil Fernández has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u445	Thank you, President. Look, belittle and belittle it is also to sow doubts or at least try. The president of the board has done so, Mr. García has done it, now you have done it again in your reply... it is to question the rigour of the committee of experts and its ability to carry out rigorous analyses. I don't know if you think you're accusing the expert committee of being a bipartisan, I don't know if a small secessionist committee or, even worse, if I'm a blocker. You had the opportunity to go there and question them, and tell them directly — because Mr. Secretary-General was meeting with the expert committee — to insult them directly and face. What happens is, I insist on what you said at the beginning, you look down on and despise everyone who brings you the opposite and denounces the consequences of the language policy that you've been applying in this country since 2010. [[Applause]] Of course we see the consequences and the effects. Of course we see them: that the percentage of children who never speak German has shot fifteen points in ten years, since that decree of what you boast, that today, in 2019, one out of four under fifteen years old says you don't know how to speak Greek and thirty percent doesn't know how to write it. That's what the IGE survey you're talking about says: that the statistics that keep the Greek language in those percentages above the Basque, or above the Catalan, are based on the population that is over 50 years old. [[Applause]] And you, applauding with your ears and asking us to do so too. [[Applause]] Do you know what language consensus is? And I'm done with this. The linguistic consensus is to apply what was put into the General Plan for Standardization of the Welsh language, which was collected by Decree 124/2006 that you threw down the sink below; decree in whose writing participated in what was later Secretary General of Culture, Mr. Anxo Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u446	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. Thank you very much. Quiet, please! Mr. Rodríguez González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u447	Mrs. Rodil, you are the one who speaks of little rigour. We just do — and I just do — a description of the methodology. There was not a single survey, but a report of experts that makes some conclusions; against that, I put together a survey made the following year — year 2019 — where the data think they are tremendously positive: today we speak more Greek than five years ago, today the number of people who usually speak more Greek than Spanish, increase bilingual use, increase competences. I can give you a lot of data! Those who usually write in English. It lowers the number of people who can't write anything in English, it rises those who understand Greek, it increases the number of families who speak Greek to their children. This is the IGE data, as you know perfectly well. Obviously, as I say, much remains to be done to have full control of both languages, and we want a multilingual model, especially a multilingual model of coexistence. And I think that in Galicia we have a pretty positive model of coexistence of the two co-official languages. No one here is fined for putting a label on a trade in German or Spanish. We don't even go to the homes of the families who want their children to study Spanish; in other autonomous communities, yes. That's a risk of very important coexistence that we don't have. But in the end, this report, as a result of which you are very concerned — and I don't know what your party will do at the state level — makes the main recommendations to the Government of the State. We agree on that. I'm sure you're going to complain with the same force to the people to whom you're going to help, presumably, to preside over the Government of Spain, and you're going to ask him, for example, to repeal an organic law of the judiciary. Because if he doesn't, he'll just be in evidence, and his group will just be like a group trying to wear out the government using a report made by some experts in 2018. And look: it doesn't stop being curious — and it's very curious — that, in the end, the linguistic policy of this government is attacked by one extreme and attacked by another. Be attacked by those who say, "No, here you speak only Spanish" and you are attacked by those who say, "Here you speak only Greek." We are at the center of society, and the People's Party reflects social normality in the use of both languages. To be totally normal, and you've been trying to fight politics with your tongue for a long time, and you've seen that the results aren't very hopeful. [[Applause]] In any case, our political model in the use of co-official languages I think it's very clear, very clear, and has given good results. We bet because there is a teaching in balance, a teaching in equality and a teaching in absolute normality. And the data, the latest data collected, supports this issue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u448	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u449	I mean, we have a society that uses both languages in an absolutely normal way, with a great coexistence. And I really think what you're suggesting is that only one language is spoken. They approach those who want to be spoken only by someone else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u450	Thank you very much, Counselor. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u451	With which, as it usually happens, the ends always come together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u452	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Mr Oscar Vilar Chento and three other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the measures envisaged by the Government of Greece in relation to the pest of rodents detected in several areas of the province of Lugo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u453	To put the question, Mr. Vilar Chento has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u454	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Good afternoon, Mr. González. More than nine months ago, the farmers and farmers of the Lugo Mountain gave the alarm voice. They warned of the proliferation of a pest of rodents that affected and continues to affect the areas of Tricastela, Pedraphyta, Cervantes, Folgoso do Courel, As Nogals and Samos. We're talking about a kind of rat mole that has an explosive biology, which is characterized by very repetitive cycles of high reproductive intensity and which adapts very well to the habitats of the countryside. It destroys meadows, since what this rodent is doing is biting at the root of plants — plants that dry —, mining the field and filling it with earth piles. And all of this makes it difficult for harvest and silage. In short, it causes damage to the meadows and in turn decreases the quality of forage, damage that leads to major economic losses for farmers and farmers in these areas. The problem, of going further, could even seriously threaten the payment of the CAP's aid, and so are the affected. The problem is not new, it's a problem that went back to more than eight years ago and that even since then, it had forced the Union to act through traps and application of some other specific treatment, but it was only done that. And, of course, when a serious problem is ignored and you don't pay attention to it, i.e. when no control, follow-up and prevention plans are carried out, you run the risk that the problem will go further, that it will multiply. Look, to be more accurate in this statement of events, high office of the Autonomic Administration held a meeting with the affected on March 15th, a meeting that took place in Lugo. In this first contact with Junta, he recognized the problem and reported that action would be taken immediately. Then they forgot about the plague until November, when it got worse and jumped into the media. Right now, according to data from various sources, we're talking about 3,000 hectares affected. This, Mr. González, is your letter of presentation in connection with these facts; it is more so, you have become frivolous about this matter. You just over a month ago expressed the media that was a matter of relative importance. Then, after that fabulous diagnosis and after the plot that got together, Mr. Balsairo sent the general manager of Gandery, Agriculture and Agri-Food, there. At this new meeting Mr. Balsairo reported he was working on the problem. Whether you're in the pre-identification work of the invading animal, an invasive animal that's known as the Earth's Arvicola, or the rat mole, and which has been spreading over the entire cantabria for years. It's a propagation favored by current climate change, and with regard to which Together is missing, it's missing. And if I say you're missing, it's because other governments have acted, including those of Castile-Leon, Asturias and Navarre.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u455	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u456	So I'll ask you the questions. Do you still maintain that this is a relative problem? What steps are they going to take?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u457	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Vilar, who talks to me about frivolities when 15 days ago he asked me about the partial mergers and then in his amendments they ask that the budget of the partial mergers be reduced to 3 million euros, man!, that does seem to me quite fragile, but good...! I didn't say in any case that it was a matter of little transcendence but that I said that I needed to analyze the transcendence that I had and the effect that I was having on the surface. I would therefore very much like to thank the Socialist Parliamentary Group for this question, because to me it is a pleasure to clarify these issues here, in the house of all the Greeks. Look, he also tells me they know a lot about the rat mole. Well, I'd say before all this news, I don't know if you'd know so much. Maybe after hearing my answer you'll understand that it's best not to talk a lot about it. But we keep going. Since the beginning of handling this information, the Rural Council launched a follow-up on the situation in the municipalities concerned, from the very moment we had information on it. And I'm talking about the Middle Rural Council. After the evaluation of the Xunta technicians, we were able to identify this rodent that is so well known, which turned out to be the so-called "tummy rat." The variant that is present in Triacastela and other municipalities near the mountain is usually seen to make drums similar to those of the storms, so it's called that. But it's a herbivore variant, not insectivore like the latter. The damage it causes in our crops, therefore, is remarkable, unfortunately. It owes to the roots and bulbs of the plants proper to the pastures. Its resilience to unique conditions, and its impact on an important part of a significant agricultural surface, is that it comes up with methods of control, Mr. Vilar, whose implementation is undoubtedly a procedure which necessarily requires great caution and great caution. Look, it's true that the rat's mole problem is not new. In 2010, the Council already had to deal with the rat mole, but then the use of an active substance -- listen, gentlemen -- an active substance that is currently not authorized, turned out to be the most effective method. I mean, then we could end something that is no longer authorized. I'm saying we could end up with a mechanism that is no longer authorized today. Given the current variety, the remedy of a decade ago is invalid and therefore the solution is more complex. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] As I've already commented, the first step was to identify the rodent. This allows you to count on the information required to better define possible measures to act against it. And what we did was evaluate the surface. I'd like to know in your next intervention, Mr. Vilar, where you get those 3,000 hectares, because we have the data, by our technicians, and it's 1,500 hectares. I'll follow after.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u458	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Vilar Chento has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u459	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. González, I see the diagnosis you know very well. I understand it's all controlled, it's all under control. Allow me some advice, if you're a little more careful, don't fall into the mistakes of your predecessor. They did the same thing with Vespa Titina, she was all controlled, and then they said that she had to learn how to live with her. That's what you voted for. The same thing happened to them with the bean pineapple. Their policy in the area of pest control is bad. Let's go with the brave pig thing. [[Applause]] The boar bells out its broads. The problems of the German field, when you manage, grow without limits. Because when the first signs appear, you, as you did here today, chill over the matter. Look, you talked about a lot of things, said they've already identified the animal. But, look, Mr. Balsairo, when he was in Lugo, this last time, said they couldn't act sooner because the affected were headed for the wrong advice. That's what he said. And this is serious, saying high board office is very serious. That's what he's saying is that there's an absolute lack of communication in the Union. What's most surprising about this inaction by the Board is that their mayors and mayors don't move either. It turns out that one of the most affected municipalities is Tricastela, and their mayor, Olga Iglesias, did not transfer the problem to them either in March. This is serious, very serious. Look, you talked about identifying the problem. You did this: to deliver an excellent printed sheet in a DIN A4 so that everyone, each affected, would identify the land, when that work had to be done by the comarcas offices, the comarcas offices that you yourself dismantled. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u460	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u461	And, by the way, I'd be grateful if you answered if you were going to set up a few lines of help.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u462	Thank you very much. Mr. González Vázquez speaks for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u463	Mr. Vilar, in three minutes it took him time to talk about almost everything and almost all the plagues. I, if you'll excuse me, before I get to the question, I'll tell you that there are some of those plagues where we are pointers in your treatment. For example, with the bead of the chestnut tree we are the autonomous community that is making more torymus loose, with a lot of difference; besides that we managed to release the release last year and we released 600,000 copies with an investment of 2 million euros. This year is going to be another two million euros. And I want to tell all the Members who are here — since we have that interest — that we are getting the torymus parasite, with which we are starting to win the battle against the pineapple. So we're doing what we can to get our jumps back. I told him earlier, when I was in my reply, that the remedy we had ten years ago is no longer allowed by environmental legislation. And as I mentioned earlier, the first step by the Council was the identification of the rodent. Now we have the information we need to define in a more appropriate way the measures to act against him. These measures — I repeat, and I ask for caution — must be compatible with both the gainful activity and the environment. We have identified it, and we have tried to evaluate the damage and the affected area — so we shifted, and it was my Director General, of course, in order to quantify the plots. After the evaluation of technicians at the Rural Council, it was determined that the affected area could be around 1,500 hectares, and by no means the 3,000 that have been said. If there are reports of these 3,000, we pray those who have those reports that bring them to us. But our technicians tell us it's 1,500 hectares. And from the juntta we want to reiterate that this is a problem with a really significant relevance as if to be attached in a hurry. That's why it's necessary to raise awareness and make constructive criticisms and, above all, grounded. Look, ladies and gentlemen, causing nervousness in the sector in order to make politics is in no way justifiable. With the comprehensive review of the damage caused so far, it can be carried out the delimitation of the most viable measures between the available measures to deal with the problem, and always under the corresponding legislative framework, which in this case is Law 43/2002, of vegetable health. From the Government of the Union we work to prevent the proliferation of these rodents, always within strict limits for the environment and the activity of the agricultural sector. That is why measures that are formalized in the fight against this problem will be measures whose reflection contributes to peace, i.e. that they are effective but also that they are respectful. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-12-18-DSPG144.u464	Thank you very much, Counselor. At the end of the agenda, we end the meeting and wish all Members and all Members good parties.
