ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u1	We resumed the meeting with the sixth item on the agenda, which corresponds to questions with an oral reply by the President of the Council of Galicia. Before we do, we greet students from the 1st course of the Faculty of Right of Santiago and also students from the 1st and 2nd bachelor's degree at the Enrique Murualis Institute of Pontenova. All of them, welcome to Parliament. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the deadline provided by the Galician Union for the full compliance of the Galician Law for the prevention and treatment of gender-based violence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u2	Question by Mrs Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u3	Thank you very much, President. Good morning. We are at the door of November 25, and it seems to us that it is important to reflect on the serious political and social problem of violence against women by being women. A violence that causes us in Galicia to have in the last decade 55,000 cases reported in the courts, and we know it's only the tip of the iceberg; 43 women killed, 3,500 active cases at this time of gender violence, and only last year 1,000 sexual crimes were reported, with an attempt to rape a day. The question you have to ask, at most responsible for the Galician Union, is if you're doing everything you can. And the answer is very clear: no. I am sure that if, instead of talking about 43 women killed, we spoke of 43 Members or Members, the answer would be very different: they would spare no means and would not comply with minutes of silence. [[Applause]] I know that saying this uncomfortable, it's uncomfortable, yes, but we're sick, and what's not worth is hot cloths or hypocrisy when what's at stake is women's life. Nor is it worth coming to the debate to hide in which there is a German law against gender-based violence. Because, yes, there's a law in Greece since 2007, but it's been that this law in Greece has been in force for 12 years and it's not yet fulfilled: all professionals have not been trained; there's not enough awareness measures; there's no equal education; there's not enough resources. And today we continue to insist that the minimum we can devote, if we want to place the fight against violence as a serious problem to which we are going to respond, is to allocate 1% of the budget of the Galician Union. In any case, this leave of functions, what it takes is that the feminist agenda, the agenda for fighting against gender-based violence, was not part of their priorities. On the contrary, we saw what was the agenda of Mr. Feijóo's People's Party since he arrived at the Galician Union: to fund the anti-abortist groups through RedMadre; to cut down the aid to victims of gender violence; to suppress information services to women; to eliminate the programme of escorting victims of gender violence, or to recover concerts with centres that divide by sex. This, Mr. Feijóo, was your letter of presentation to the women of this country nothing more than to come to Galician Union. And, do you know what your farewell letter is going to be? The pacts with that extreme ancient right, macho, which is also denying the very existence of gender-based violence and which wants to break the laws of which we have endowed ourselves. [[Applause]] You can say that these pacts are harmless, or that you don't deal here with them; of course, as they have no representation, they don't, but where they have opportunities, they endorse those pacts. And as long as they don't ask them to break up, you're accomplices to go crochet from those who are defending the Machists, instead of defending women's rights and instead of defending that more means and resources are needed to fight against gender violence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u4	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u5	That's why, Mr. Feijóo, he breaks with the extreme right and dedicates his efforts to fight against macho violence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, masculine violence is a problem in which we are all present, and I suppose all of us present are involved. Unfortunately, it's not a problem in the last decade; unfortunately it's not just a problem in Galicia, it's not even a problem in Spain. That's why the eradication of macho violence will remain a priority for this government, as it has been for a long time. We've done a lot of work, Mrs. Pontón. I'm surprised at the politicization you've just made about the problem of macho violence. O Allah! [[Applause]] Your Honor, the first law against masculine violence is not from the Bipartite, until it falsifies. The first equality law, with a chapter aimed at eradicating male violence, is a government of the People's Party in 2004. I am surprised at the demagogy that makes it omitted that the first plan of action against violence against men is a plan approved by a Government of the People's Party between 2002 and 2005. I am surprised, Your Honor, that it does not put in place unprecedented measures throughout Spain, made by this government, such as the characterization of the Union in all criminal proceedings in cases of death due to macho violence. I'm surprised that when you supported the Government, you didn't support this proposal. Your Honor, I am surprised that you do not put into effect the Galego Observatory of Gender Violence, for the first time established in this government, or the activation of the Integral Recovery Centre for Women Who Suffer Gender Violence. I'm also surprised, Your Honor, that you don't talk about anything important, because the important thing, Your Honor, is not to come here to blame the others. You've just made a proposal that I regret on behalf of all the women of Greece who suffer from macho violence, which is to politicize macho violence and put it on top of a political party and a government. [[Applause]] Yes, Your Honor. It is up to me to speak on behalf of most Galician women, and on behalf of most Galician women, I do not accept this kind of approach from the Galician parliamentary minority in this Parliament. That's why, Your Honor, I'm surprised you're here to mix the right to have women's children with macho violence. [[Applause]] I'm surprised you come here to mix the right of mothers and parents to choose an educational center with macho violence. I'm surprised, unfortunately, that you come here to speak and name women and violence when you come to use women to make their partisan arguments. Look, Mrs. Pontón, I know there are 55,000 complaints in Galicia. I know perfectly well that there are over 10,000 orders of protection. And you should know that the only Government in Spain, the only government in Spain that puts periodic aid to women who suffer from violence is the Government of the People's Party in Galicia: EUR 37 million, Your Honor; 600 euros on average monthly. The only government in Spain. That's a government trying to protect women who are victims of violence. [[Applause]] Your Honor, we will continue to work with you or without you, but lessons on how to protect our women, our daughters and our mothers from macho violence, none, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón. [[Strong murmurers.]] Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u9	Mr. Feijóo, we don't own women. And much less you own the women of this country! We don't need to, Mr. Feijóo, tell us that women own. [[Applause]] That's part of the problem of why there's gender violence, because there are those who believe that women have owners, and of course, Mr. Feijóo, the women of this country speak for themselves and they didn't elect you as spokesperson, and much less when we see what the answer of their party is to 8M or to the allegations we make in the streets, because we say they lack means and lack resources. Of course, they don't represent us who say 8M is the most machist. The most machist is to deal with Vox that's what you're doing, Mr. Feijóo. That's the most machist there is. [[Applause]] And you can't stand a profile or elude that debate because, you know what's going on? That this is a central issue, that this is an important issue. If you're uncomfortable with those pacts, tell them to break up. But what, when you went to the national leadership of your party, where did you evaluate yourself to deal with the far right, did you vote yes, Mr. Feijóo? That's the bottom line problem, that you're an accomplice to a pact that's attacking a central element! And gender violence is a first-order political problem. [[Applause]] If not why laws, Mr. Feijóo? If it is not a political problem, why do we pass laws in Parliament? Because there is a fundamental political problem that is of subordination and discrimination against women, and we need policies to combat that problem. And we told him that there is much more he can do than he has done so far, because there is a law, by the way, which ensures that women in this country have help, has not been guaranteed by the People's Party. The People's Party did what it did was cut off the aid to the victims of gender-based violence. [[Applause]] Today... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, today there's a lower income level than there was in 2009 to receive those aids, and after they were cut down, we had to bring them several times to Parliament to increase the level of aid, but the decision that the People's Party made unilaterally was to cut the aid to women. It's true, and there's the DOG to check it out. And what we say is that much more can be done. We can dedicate 1% to fighting gender violence. One hundred million euros seem little to us when we are risking women's lives, health and future. We want all the professionals to be trained. We want equal education. We want to link the new university funding plan to a truly cross-sectional education, which is trained in equality and violence at all universities in our country. We want, Mr. Feijóo, to be gifted...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u11	...—Filled, Mr President—in primary care the personnel necessary for psychological care, as the law has said, and they do not comply with it. We want help to be removed from centres that segregate by sex, because it's not free choice to discriminate and segregate by sex, it's pure and hard machismo. [[Applause]] We want to ensure specific trials of gender-based violence, information services to women in rural areas, extend aid to victims and match the compensation of victims of gender-based violence with those who receive...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u12	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u13	...the victims of terrorism, because we don't want first or second victims. We want more means...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u14	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u15	...more resources and, above all, Mr Feijóo, don't be complicit.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u16	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u17	...who is questioning the existence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u18	Thank you, your time is up. Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u19	Thank you very much. Indeed, Mrs. Pontón, since women are free and there is no women's owner here, BNG is not the owner of Galician women. For nothing, Mrs. Pontón, for nothing. Neither the BNG nor any political party, and much less when a Member is using women who suffer from gender-based violence to make politics worse, Mrs Pontón, of the worst! [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, is it hard for you to recognize that the first law in favour of equality is a People's Party law? Does it cost you so much? Is your sectarianism superior to the Official Journal of Galicia? Mrs. Pontón, the first law and the first plan against macho violence is the signature of the Galician People's Party, she likes or dislikes you, Your Honor. [[Applause]] You speak, Your Honor, that periodic assistance to women with gender violence was an invention of the Bipartite. But, Your Honor, if when we arrived at Junta in 2009, we paid 228 women and we paid 4,165 tips, about 600 euros a month, and we are the only autonomous community in Spain to do so, the only one! Why does it not congratulate, Your Honor, the Greek society, which means EUR 37 million trying to dignify, at least, the problem that women suffer from the masculine violence of the Greeks or the rest of the people who live in Galicia? [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, it's unfortunate that you came to tell me about this. The immediate schooling of sons and daughters who are victims of gender-based violence, with this government; the priority in obtaining help in housing rental, with this government; the access of victims to short-term treatment of Risga, with this government; the work programme for women who suffer from macho violence, with this government; the characterization of the Autonomous Community in all killings in Galicia, with this government. What are you talking about? He's talking about education. But if the first subject of equality was raised with this government!, and it is being taught in high school, in the bachelor's degree. And the Equality Plan is subject to free configuration in public education in Galicia. [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, Mrs. Pontón, look, the Popular Group has brought this House an initiative. We're going to keep talking seriously, since you really don't like it. Will you support Galicia's Strategic Plan against Trafficking for Sexual Exploitation, yes or no? This is a proposal we brought to the House. Are we really going to encourage any action against this crime of trafficking in women for the purpose of prostitution, whether or not, Mrs. Pontón? That's what we're talking about, we're not talking about pacts or pacts. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, Your Honor, when you talk to me about 1%, don't you know that we increased by more than 114% the budget BNG devoted to equality? There's 114% increase in the BNG budget for equality. Your Honor, if we computed all the budget you calculated when you were in the Government, that is, equality matches and conciliation games, we have EUR 138 million. This is 1,36 % of the Galician budget. But why don't your proposals leave for nothing any glimpse of reality and take this matter seriously? Mrs. Pontón, I'm starting to wonder if you take seriously the women who are victims of gender-based violence. How can you come here to talk about political pacts with political parties? What are you talking about, Mrs. Pontón? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u20	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u21	Do you talk to me about a political party, Vox, which has practically the same votes as BNG? Are you telling me there's a political party in Galicia in the last general election that took the same vows as BNG? Are you telling me about that? If you tell me about it, we're not going to talk about violence against women, Your Honor, about pacts and political parties. Do you know why BNG has a seat in Madrid? Because, thanks to Vox and the division of vote, BNG got a seat in Madrid, gentlemen. Do you know what binds BNG and Vox, Your Honor? [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u22	Finish. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u23	The same slogan: throw the Beech out of the board. That's why, Your Honor, you're so interested in Vox. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. [[Applause]] Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Gonzalo Caballero Míguez, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the role that the Government of Greece will give them to public services in Galicia in the months that remain of legislation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Feijóo, after eleven years of government in front of the Council of Galicia, we all know that his Government is an enemy of the public, which has constantly made corrosive attacks on the welfare state. We know all the users of public health in Galicia, which we know about privatization policies, job insecurity, lack of primary care betting, increased waiting lists. We know that, Mr Feijóo, all the parents and mothers who see the cuts in public education, the lack of squares in children's schools, who must pay textbooks that were previously free. Our elders know this, that we see the failures when we find a public residence in order to address their dependency problems. That's his policy. We, Mr. Feijóo, defend the welfare state, defend the public, and after eleven years of being in front of you in front of the Galician Union, with your social policy disaster, worry that this can go much worse. And we're worried, Mr. Feijóo, because you're willing to deal with anyone to see a new political scene. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Feijóo, last week you were talking about our sovereignty, you were talking about my sovereignty last week, and you lied once again in this Parliamentary House. You haven't talked about sovereignty this weekend, you've talked about the failure of the People's Party. You've already said it, you can't be happy with ninety seats, Feijóo said. Besides, Mr. Feijóo, you also told your leader clearly: we can't be happy because we lost five million votes; five million votes in Spain and over two hundred thousand votes in Galicia. Mr. Feijóo, you are now recognizing the defeat of the People's Party, the defeat of married people and their electoral defeat! That's why, Mr. Feijóo, because I have in consideration your skill and your intelligence, I know perfectly well that you know that in Galicia there will be no absolute majority, so you owe the Greeks an exercise of sincerity. Admit, Mr. Feijóo, that you already have an agreement with the ultra-right to govern Galicia. You admit, Mr. Feijóo, that the day after the elections, if there were any possibility — because there will be no absolute majority — that the right ones add up, you... [[Strong murmurers.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u25	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u26	...I would take your vows with that ultra-right to which you blessed your pact in Andalusia. You said it, whoever could do it, anyone could make a deal. [[Murmurs.]] That's... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u27	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u28	...the policy: the agreement with an ultra-rightist group that involves a cut to political freedoms, which means a cut to the welfare state, which means a cut to the German self-government......, [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u29	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u30	...which means an attack on women's rights and real equality. That's the People's Party line that you represent, even though you want to hide it from here for the autonomous elections, to give them the fear of the pact with the ultra-right to the Greeks and the Greeks. Because you, if you can, add up, and have no limitations to compromise with a neo-Francist, macho, and xenophobic political force. And it makes us nervous that we're talking about on the right, it makes us very nervous.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u31	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u32	Mr. Feijó, the future...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u33	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u34	...from Galicia can't be in the hands of those who are willing to compromise with the ultra right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u35	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I sometimes think you're passing by without much of what's going on around you. I think all the students at the Faculty of Right and High School know that this question was about what I think we're going to do with public services. What a sad way to denigrate the Greek public services after listening to you! You don't care about public services, don't care about Galicia or Parliament. You just come here to give a rally every Wednesday, Your Honor. But, unfortunately, the Greeks have already noticed that. Look, Your Honor, you are the first head of the Socialist Party to sit on that bench that was unable to hold the debate on the budget of the Galician Union. First, because you don't know — don't laugh, Mr. Knight, you don't know! — [[Laughter]] Second, because he doesn't want to work. And thirdly, because it's much better to give a rally about the far right. Look, Your Honor, of extremes you know a lot. We've been here for eleven years, ruling honorably. There's been some political party that's been ruling for 40 years in an autonomous community and now we know how it did it. There's a big difference, Mr. Knight, between this political party and its political party. [[Applause]] Your Honor, I'm going to talk about public services, because to me public services are the backbone of my political addiction since the age of 29. My spine, Your Honor. [[Applause]] Public services need money to work, and what we have for next year is the greatest social expenditure in the history of the Autonomous Community, and we have 40 budgets, as the councillor of Fairy said the other day. We have EUR 7,401 million, the largest social expenditure in the history of the Autonomous Community. We have better public health rated by the Greeks, according to the Ministry of Health surveys. We have the lowest half-surgical waiting list since there are records. We have 2,300 more professionals working in health care. We have the largest investment in hospitals and health centers in the history of the Galego Health Service. Next year, 407 more people working in primary care and home care and 150 million euros more in hospital infrastructure. We have 18,000 students with digital books; 120,000 students in digital classes; and when we got to the government there were none. None, zero! We have 100,000 pupils in multilingual classes and more teachers per student than the rest of Spain. Your Honor, these are the public services. Public services is to multiply by two vocational training squares. Public services is to have the most accessible university fees for the Greek families all over Spain. Public services, Your Honor, is to have less failure in school and more score every time we're measured. Public services is to put in place a shock plan against school harassment, an inclusion strategy between 2020 and 2021. And with regard to the prevention of dropout; today we have less dropout than the European Union proposes by 2020. As you will understand, Your Honor, for me public services is not a rally, it is a vocation and a commitment to Galicia. [[Applause]] Public services is to have 61,000 employees charging for Social Security. Public services is to multiply by 16 household aids, reaching 24,000 galleys. Public services — you speak of the biggest ones — is to increase the residential squares by 55%. Public services is to be able to make 900 public residential squares of free for the autonomous community through commitments to the civil society of Galicia. Public services, Your Honor, it's having today...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u37	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u38	...less poverty than when we arrived in government in 2008. As you will understand, Mr. Knight, for me public services is the child's gratuity from 0 to 3 years for the second and successive children. Public services is to increase the Welcome card by 38%, which does not exist in any autonomous community. Public services, to me, Your Honor, is the political vocation. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u39	Thank you, President. Replica, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u40	Mr. Feijó, I understand that you don't like my role as Secretary General of the PSdEG. And I told you once, I'm glad you don't like my role as Secretary General of the PSdG! I understand that, because you're losing the majority of society in Galicia. Every time you go to election in 2019, the battalion after the People's Party's Battalion. Now you recognize the election battalion that the People's Party had in Spain, and you're actually recognizing the battalion that the People's Party has in Galicia as well. Mr Feijóo, don't tell me what the answer is, because I'm going to remind you that last week, in this House of Parliament, we asked you about the urban policies of the Union and you didn't give a second to reply to this parliamentary group, not a second! You run the parliamentary debate wherever you want, and we don't follow the political agenda of your electoral strategies. We want to tell you clearly that this party is leading a change of bet on public services. What I've told you about is the electoral strategy of the People's Party, which means a retreat and a risk to political freedoms, to the self-government of Galicia and also to the public services of Galicia. And your partners, the partners of the right-wing tripartite with the right-wing, are the partners you'll be willing to deal with after the autonomous elections, when there's no majority in Galicia. And of the cuts you've been making, after that idyllic vision that you want to move to the country, which nobody believes because all citizens in Galicia know of the problems in Greek public health, from rural to cities: the problems in the waiting lists, the problems of pediatrics, the problems in primary care, the problems with ambulances... Even there have been cases of such gravity — as you know well — that have caused the deaths of citizens in Galicia without medical care. This is a health emergency situation in the face of your incompetence, Mr. Feijóo. And when you do that story, of course they do a lot of things! If you spend billions and billions of euros, how are you not going to do a lot of things? Of course they do things! But the overall calculation of its action in social policies is that of remoteness, that of forgetting Galicia, that of forgetting the older children, the ones who have the most difficulties, in a Galicia where more than six hundred thousand people are in difficulty and at risk. But you live on the edge of it, and you make us a happy story because you want to move that happy picture that is no longer bought by the Greeks. And when someone makes a speech that conflicts with reality, he's losing credibility and power of connection with his country. Thank you very much, Mr. Feijó.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u41	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Close the question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u42	Thank you very much. I remind the students of the Faculty of Right where I studied that the question posed to me by the Secretary General of the Socialist Party is the role that the Government of Greece will give to the public services in which legislation remains. You'll see that Mr. Caballero is very interested in public services in Galicia. How come I don't like you as secretary general? Nice to meet you! Nice to meet you! [[Laughter]] The problem, Your Honor, is that I now see the faces of your Members and their Members, and that parliamentary group you don't like much, Your Honor. [[Laughter]] Little! [[Applause]] Don't be doubted. Look, he used to be on vacation when he should be here, and now the budget, as he doesn't care about public services, nor does he read it. But do you not know that counsellors are coming to Parliament to explain the public service budgets? What didn't I know? Ask me, Mr. Knight, and I'm trying to explain to you how the House works. But you take the control sessions seriously and the House, because if you don't, your Parliamentary Group doesn't take you seriously. Nice to meet you, Mr. Knight. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, when we got to Junta, there were 983 squares of day centers, today there are 3,400. When we got to Junta, there were 200 squares in Alzheimer's centers, today there are 500. [[Murmurs.]] When we arrived at Junta there were 5,500 squares in larger residences, today there are 8,000. This is the important thing, Mr. Knight, these are the public services. When we get to the Union, the Bono Conciliation didn't exist, now there are 4,400 families who perceive it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] When we get to Junta, the rural... what's more! The rural one, who has few children, why do you need nurseries? No day care facilities in rural areas. And now all the municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants can have a conciliation remedy. What's the matter, Your Honor? [[Applause]] If you don't do this! You're adding to something else. Look, with all due respect, you're talking about pacts after the elections, but aren't you really going to win the elections? He's counting on the fact that the People's Party lacks some seats to get the absolute majority. [[Laughter]] Is that the alternative proposal of the Secretary General of the Socialist Party, Your Honor? Is the alternative proposal whether the People's Party adds or not the absolute majority in the House? [[Applause]] Is that the change of the Socialist Party, Your Honor? Look, I'm going back to the question. You ask me about the role we give to public services: first, that's the answer. For us, the most important social budgets of the 40 years of Galician history are an honor. For you, the Greek public services translate into 700 million euros that don't want to pay us. The 700 million euros that the Socialist Government in Madrid does not want to pay to the Autonomous Community of Galicia is the biggest cut to Galician public services in history. The biggest cut, Mr. Knight, is signed by the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. [[Applause]] As far as this House is concerned, people who deserve my respect, I'm not going to talk about the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, but I'm going to talk about its redoubled sovereignty. May you come here again to talk about the election results...! Looks like you won the last general election in Galicia. But if you haven't won a general election since it existed, Your Honor! Ever since it exists, he's never won a general election. True, thanks to Mr. Leicega, you won the Socialist Party Congress. Answer: Mr. Leicega in Madrid. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. That's very well done, Your Honor! [[Laughter]] But look, I'm going to tell you, do you know what matters to the Socialist Party about the Greek public services? They cut us 700 million in education, health and social services. What about Spain? Ah, for in Spain it is clear, we must deliver them to Podemos! Social ministries for Podemos, and economic ministries for the Socialist Party. [[Murmurs.]] The Socialist Party's priority in public services is that others manage them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u43	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u44	Look, I'm not going to tell you that you have to build an alternative to that nonsense between the Socialist Party and Podemos, where Mr. Tora and Mr. Junqueras have been sent from prison. I'm not going to talk about this, because for me the public services right now is the subject of the debate. What if I can assure you, Your Honor, is that there is not one German who thinks that you are up to the Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u45	Thank you, President. Your time is over, President. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u46	Look, Your Honor, you are a ventriloquist of Mr. Sánchez. Unfortunately, Mr. Caballero, I am delighted that you will follow, if possible, decades of Secretary General of the Socialist Party. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u47	Thank you, President. Your time is over, President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u48	I'm sorry about the Socialist Party and the public services. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u49	Thank you, President. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Antón Sánchez García of the G.P. Joint Left Group on measures to combat the precariousness and inequality of women in employment and at work
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u50	Question by Mr. Antón Sánchez, spokesperson for the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u51	Good morning, Mr. Feijó. I will no longer ask you whether you are willing to deal with Vox if necessary, because it is clear that you are not willing to compromise here with a force of ultra-right that denies macho violence, which demands frankness, which criminalizes immigration and is xenophobic, but I ask you not to treat it as a minor matter. If we're worried about this in the opposition, it's because we're worried about the advance of the ideas of the ultra-right that you're helping normalize. Ideas that, in advance, would assume a huge democratic retreat. [[Murmurs.]] Yesterday you agreed in Madrid to end the universality of public health. Things like this we're playing with the advancement of the ultra-right that you're normalizing in Spain. You are the leader of the People's Party of Spain and you have not been heard to say a word against this. It's very serious, and obviously you can't treat it as a minor matter. We have reached agreement with you and with all the forces of Parliament to advance in rights, even when those advances seemed insufficient, but we have huge differences in equality policies. We believe that equality between men and women cannot be dissociated from the labour issue, and there the wage gap in Galicia is higher than the state average. Its reduction evolves very slowly, so a recent Gesta report said that Galicia would take 615 years to match this gap. But the worst thing is, Mr. Feijóo, is that this creek is soaking itself with women with the lowest wages, with women in more difficulty. In Dec. 10, the lowest wages, women earn half as much as men. They would need 91 percent increase to charge as much as men; and we're talking about the fact that in that decline women charge 6,700 euros, while men charge 11,778, according to INE data. They'd have to double their income to charge as much as a man. Besides, since you rule, those differences have increased in lower wages. It has been increased since 2009, from 75% to 91%. And his bet on being the champion of austerity has serious consequences on the weakest. This data is a consequence of feminization, of the worst paid jobs, but also of partiality and temporality, which suffer the most from women because they have to endure the care of children and older people. That's why their cuts in public social services, or their privatization, go directly against the women who are going through the worst, precarious their lives. Their housing policies for speculation also go, above all, against women who earn less, who suffer more rejections than any other collective. The revenue to fight the pay gap is to strengthen public social services, but you cut more than anyone, as a recent report said. On the other hand, the Greek Administration must begin by setting an example and by fulfilling. I say this because of the situation of the precariousness of Sergas potential nurses, for example. A group of 10,000 people, especially women, who contract one contract after another, and there are cases, such as that of Monica, who says that after eleven years of Sergas' availability, he signed 557 contracts and he has five and a half years quoted in Social Security, Mr Feijóo. And it's not a random case. So, given the data, given this reality, Mr. Feijóo, have you thought about doing anything else to fight against the gender pay gap?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u52	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u53	Look, Your Honor, in my political biography you won't find any ultras. I don't like ultras, either extreme right or extreme left. That's why I don't like Podemos, Your Honor, nor do I like the political approaches of his group, nor the different parties that make up his group, nor all the nonsense that you propose, for example, to appear in this House, from the rostrum, with a T-shirt: "Chávez, I swear, we will vote for Maduro." I don't like it, Your Honor. I don't like it, in the name of the Greeks who are suffering from the Maduro regime and the Chávez regime, who suffered it years ago. So ultra lessons, none. And coming from the far left, neither. This is a central right-wing Galeguist, reformist, Mr. Anton. [[Applause]] It won't give me a sense of state lessons someone you think is destroying the state. Ladies and gentlemen, I told you -- and I repeat the data again -- at the last control session. Last gender equity index, published in 2019 by the Royal Academy of Economic and Financial Sciences. Leo: "Galicia is the community with less inequality between women and men in the labour market." This is the data, Your Honor. We're with the slightest inequality, the smallest gap, according to this academy. Yes, Your Honor, yes. Last data from 2019. I know you don't care, because you don't care about the data. Payroll, we go to the INE, annual salary structure survey, year 2017, the last of the INE. Since 2008, since we arrived in the Government, women's average salary has grown in Galicia by more than 13%. It is the second autonomous community with a higher rate of growth throughout Spain. National Institute of Statistics. Your Honor, I have just talked about the Academy, the year 2019, the latest report, and the latest report of the National Institute of Statistics. It is the second autonomous community that has increased women's wages the most in this period. If you want to make me responsible for what the situation was in the year 2008 and years after, that will be another debate, but if you think I have something to do with — and I suppose so — the situation of the pay gap, I tell you that, according to INE, it is the second autonomous community in the whole state where women's wages have increased most, more than the average of Spain. It is the second autonomous community of the state. Your Honor, I will finish this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u55	Mr. Feijóo, who has to attack us to justify his complicity with ultra-rightness, fascism and his ideas... is very sad. [[Protests.]] You are the accomplices of very serious issues that are happening in this country, which can assume a huge downturn in democratic terms and which suppose that you are an anomaly within Western Europe, where anti-fascist rights are opposed to and a health cordon to xenophobic and macho ideas. You're an anomaly. They'll load you with that too, because society will make it clear. [[Applause]] Mr. Feijó, don't manipulate the figures, don't lie. INE says that in 2009 women with the lowest wages had a difference with men of 75%; they had to increase 75% to pay the same as men. In 2017 that percentage was 91%. I've already told you the difference, more than 5,000 euros of difference, which has grown with you. The reason is very clear. Experts have already said what is the recipe for fighting the pay gap, above all, to strengthen public services so that women don't have to take care of their families and harm their careers. It's a very simple recipe, and you, as the champion of the cuts, are expanding that crack. In addition, figures are the figures, but there are witnesses to hundreds of women working for the public administration and who have been underprivileged, for over a decade, by their neoliberal policies. "I'm mother and nurse. Until 17 months ago, it was Sergas's chance for everything that was in my life. Now I've been suspending calls for a year to be able to reconcile, because a baby for months doesn't understand that they call you two at 3:00 or because my duty as a mother exceeds what I owe Sergas." Or witnesses who say, from Ourense, that has been linked to Sergas for fourteen years; he has signed 240 contracts, with ten and a half years, and only twenty-one days of enjoying vacations. This contributes to increasing the pay gap. They start by setting an example in public administrations, which are the ones that have to lead this change. And they do not say that the debate on male violence is politicized or that the debate on equality of women is politicized. By politicizing this conflict, it was as if progress had been made, despite the right, that it has always been towing and against progress. Against divorce, against abortion, against all social advances, you were towing, and it was because you politicized the conflict, because it's a political conflict. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u56	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Close the question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You attack us for a pact we've never made, and you're upset that I describe what you do? Do you bother me that I'm describing that a badge leader of your group came up in this House with a shirt that he wore "Chávez, I swear, will we vote for Maduro?" [[Murmurs.]] And celebrate him behind you! [[Murmurs.]] So, you're here to talk about a pact that this party and this parliamentary group have never made... Does it bother you to remember that your group is a pro-chavista group? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Does it bother you? [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, what is anomalous is that in the countries of the European Union it can be a party like you by directing social services, labour policies, conciliation policies, social policies in Spain. [[Murmurs.]] I don't remember that there is no communist party in the government in Europe; I don't remember, Your Honor. But why be ashamed?Oh, my God! If the Communist Party was much wiser than We can, Your Honor! I don't understand why you're ashamed! [[Laughter]] I don't understand why they're ashamed! [[Murmurs.]] The Communist Party of Spain was a much more coherent party than it is the mix of parties that make up the defeat of Podemos. [[Applause]] And I'm telling you as a right student and as a person who lived with the Communist Party of Spain. [[Applause]] Much more coherent, much more egalitarian, much more sensible. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] And they were very clear that Spain is a nation and that Spain deserves the protection of all Spaniards. Yes, Your Honor, in favor of the transition! [[Applause]] In favor of transition! [[Applause]] In favour of the Constitution. [[Applause]] That was the Communist Party we missed, Your Honor. [[Applause]] Now you represent a communist party that is simply a disgrace to your predecessors in that party. Yes, Mr. Gago, don't put your head down. Look, Your Honor, I repeat...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u58	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u59	I repeat, Your Honor, I know you're upset...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u60	Mr. Vega, be quiet. [[Mr. Vega Pérez and Mr. Cal Ogang pronounce words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Vega and Mr. Cal! Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u61	Annual salary structure survey. The average wage of women has grown in Galicia over 13% since 2008; the second autonomous community where it grew most. Let's keep going. The employment rate, since we got to the government, was in female employment at 56% and is now at 61.5%. The female employment rate increased by 4.3 points. The unemployment rate — according to EPA — was 18% and is now 13.3% in female employment, has improved 4.7 points. Let's go to registered unemployment. When we got to the government, there were 116,000 unemployed women, now there are 21,000 fewer women. When we arrived at the Government, there were 464,000 women affiliated to Social Security, and today there are 498,000 women, 32,000 women more affiliated to Social Security. Are we accused of this, Mr. Pazos, of having less female unemployment and of having more women affiliated to Social Security? Are we accused of this? I take that charge! Look, we're going to keep working, and I assure you I'm not more interested than right. In the same way that we already proposed in 2017 a Women's Employment Plan, which benefited 35,000 women, and provided more than 60,000 guidance and job promotion services; that's our presentation card. Just like the Conciliation and Co-responsibility Plan. Is there any autonomous community that would invest more money in conciliation? None. None, Your Honor! None. None. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] None, Your Honor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There is no autonomous community in Spain that has invested more resources in conciliation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u62	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u63	I repeat, in the same way that INE reiterates to you that this autonomous community is the second most fighting data about the wage gap. Look, Galicia is the autonomous community with less work inequality than ever since there are records, which doesn't mean there's a wage gap we have to keep fighting with. I hope that you will approve and support the Demographic impulse Act, which has very specific articles on public procurement and other matters to fight the wage gap. As you deny the data, they're not denying the data to the government, they're denying the data to the working women, who are working more...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u64	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u65	...and they're more members of Social Security. You're denying the data to the civil society of Galicia, which today has more women affiliated to Social Security than ever. They're denying Galician data, as always. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u66	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u67	Look, Your Honor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u68	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u69	...my political commitment is to women - as much as it bothers the opposition groups - who suffer from masculine violence, who have a wage breakdown or who have any discrimination of any kind of society. That's my commitment, Your Honor, I have no doubt. I'm going to go on with that commitment, no ultras and no ultras pacts...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u70	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u71	...as with you. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u72	Thank you, President. We continue with item 4 on the agenda. [[Murmurs.]] We continue with point 4 -- as I said -- non-law proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Mixto, at the initiative of Mr. Luis Villares Naveira and three other Members, on the demand that the Government of Greece make to the Central Government in relation to the sending of sporting representation to events organised in countries that deny women any of the rights recognized in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u73	There's an amendment from the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u74	Mr. Villares has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u75	Good morning, gentlemen. Next November 25th is the international date of the denunciation of the violence and its most extreme and obvious manifestations, aggression and murder. But the universe that generates this extreme violence is much broader, it's a cross-sectional and cultural problem still settled in all societies of the world: the patriarchal system of domination. The patriarchate's supremacist attitude, far from disappearing with social awareness about equality between women and men, remains present among us, politically reorganized and with a blatant media campaign of social whiteness. And this, ladies and gentlemen, happens at two levels: at the state political level and at the international political level. At the state level, an extremely right-wing force, Vox, a denialist of gender-based violence, confronted with feminism as the driving ideology of society in the struggle for equality between women and men, a declaredly macho force, which reduces the role of women in sewing buttons in the house for men, seeks their social legitimacy in the need that they have other political forces — which we consider to be democratic right — to seek support to conform most parliamentary and governmental. And, look, we, from En Marea, do not say that by this fact forces like the People's Party or as Citizens cease to be democratic forces, but we point out a risk, the risk that for the whole of society and for the fight for equality and against machismo has to legitimize and normalize a political force that carries values that are not democratic, because they are contrary to the minimum standards of recognition of fundamental rights, for example, at the international level with the United Nations. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not just happening at the state level, it's happening at the international level as well. The same goes for the international level, but this time not with political formations, but with real complete states and atrocious scale. Yes, we're talking about state children who practice machismo in an official and generalized way, who have legalized the submission of women, torture and murder in the most cruel ways. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2019, on this planet where we all live, there are women who die stoned by their sexual orientation, stoned! In 2019 there are women who die hanged because they disobey the family destiny decided by their relatives when they are children. In 2019 there are women who get beatings on their backs and prison sentences for not wearing their face covered. And, of course, about the driver's license, passport or buying a real estate we haven't even talked about. And let's not say what to vote, problems that sometimes share with those who stone them. Of these situations, Amnesty International has been occupied on numerous occasions, and I think today they are proposing an institutional statement. I just read two passages that I think are interesting, one of them referred to in Iran, which in recent months denounces: "We are witnessing a strong repression against people who defend women's human rights, in particular against those who peacefully oppose the mandatory use of hijab, or the Islamic veil." They speak in particular of the distinguished human rights lawyer Nasrin Sotoudeh, sentenced to 38 years in prison and 148 beatings for defending women arrested for taking their veils out in public. And defense defenders Aryani, Arabshahi and Keshavarz were equally sentenced to between sixteen and three years of imprisonment for campaigning against compulsory use of the veil. It's not an exclusive case of Iran. In Saudi Arabia, too, Amnesty International denounces that for decades women have been and are subject to repressive laws that restrict their right to travel independently, work or study; or that limit various aspects of women's life. In the face of this situation, women who defy these unjust laws receive imprisonment, torture, and in some cases their own death. Even more echoes Amnesty International of another episode this same year. In March 2019, challenging the ban in Iran for women to enter the 29-year-old Sahar Khodayari football stadiums and dressed like a man and tried to enter the Tehran national football stadium to see a party between their favorite team, the Esteghlal Tehran, Iran, and the Al-Ain of the United Arab Emirates, during the Asian Football Cup. When the stadium security guards found out she was a woman, they stopped her from entering. In addition, he was imprisoned in Shahr-e-Rey prison, in an abandoned poultry farm that houses several hundred women found guilty of violent crimes in terms of flirting and insanity. Khodayari was summoned to appear before a Tehran court on September 2, 2019, in order to be tried in connection with his attempt to enter a football stadium. The court formally accused him of openly committing a sinful act appearing in public without hijab and insulting the authorities. The view alighted, and after leaving, Sahar sprinkled with gasoline and set himself on fire in front of the courthouse. According to the hospital spokesperson, he suffered burns in 90% of the body and died on 9 September. This story received great attention in Iran, and politicians, celebrities and footballers internationally criticized the ban on women being able to enter football stadiums. As Amnesty International denounces, Khodayari would continue to live without this draconian ban and the consequent drama of his traumatic detention, imprisonment and prosecution for trying to elude her. And he understands that his death must not be in vain. The case of Iran, ladies and gentlemen, keeps a relationship with football, a sports, cultural and leisure activity so rooted in any Western society that seems to us an imaginary account that a woman can be condemned for trying to enter a stadium. Soccer, ladies and gentlemen, that makes political rivals fit into the same shirt, that can frame the same flag, which paralyzes the normal functioning of a country and so every national political idea calls for the existence of a selection that represents it. Football, which sometimes leads to the close of Parliament's sessions soon so that evenings and evenings can enjoy their favorite sport. Football removes the deepest emotions from an important part of society, traditionally from men, but with a growing incorporation of women as amateurs and also as players, base and professionals. In recent decades, pioneers in a world of men who in a few years have reached their clubs, cities and nations the highest international recognition. Without going any further, the international Veronica Boquete, a pro-Glew, who deserved the recognition of his name in the stadium of the capital of Galicia, becoming one of the first installations of these features throughout the state with the name of a player. Ladies and gentlemen, for Western society football is a sign of social normality, and satrapies from all over the world know it. And states that practice patriarchy know it. And that's why states like Saudi Arabia or Qatar have long undertaken a crusade to bleach their tyranny internationally through sport, uniquely through football. The money blow, some tyrants who live suspended in a raft on a sea of black gold, the oil that all buys it. They want to buy world public opinion by looking like social normality, organizing international football competitions and other international sports competitions as if nothing happened. This situation was recently denounced by Verónica Boquete himself, who said at a congress about sport and communication, through criticism of the decision that the Spanish Federation would move the Super Cup from Spain to Saudi Arabia, that "Saudi Arabia is an aggressor and a punishor who violates human rights." Boquete, after seriously calling the designation a mistake, said that "the message is that everything is worth and, personally..."— she said— "...I think it's not all worth it." We're talking about a restrictive country with women and other rights, it's one of the countries where there's no freedom. If we talk about values many times in football, we have to be consistent with that. "In return," said Veronica, "we bring sports competitions there, but not only Saudi Arabia, but also countries with the same line. We must look for ways to punish the oppressor, to do evil things and, unfortunately, we are doing all the opposite," he lamented. In this same line, Amnesty International, and in view of the possibility that Spain's Super Cup will be held in Saudi Arabia, addressed the President of the Spanish Royal Football Federation with the aim of transferring his concerns and his denunciation. Before deciding on the siege, the Federation should know in detail and take into account the history of human rights violations in Saudi Arabia, which includes, in addition to discrimination against women or restrictions on freedom of expression, their participation in Yemen's war or the support of the death penalty or torture and the ill-treatment of detained persons. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot be complicit in this situation. We have to take sides immediately and take the red card out of the machismo. [[Mr. Villares Naviera takes out a red card that keeps his left hand on while he continues his intervention.]] We must take out the red card to those who want to buy our silence with money, take out the red card to all those who want to normalize Tyrannity with football, those who torture women, those who bind women, those who kill women, those who kill them, those who stone them. We must draw the red card from all over the world and tell them that we are not willing and willing to validate their normality. We must tell them that for those who are no longer here, because they have been stoned, for those who suffer inhuman sentences, for those who wait for death sentences, for those who have been sentenced to ill-treatment, rape and miserable lives; for all of them, who do not even contain with us to play the ball. Ladies and gentlemen, let us mark a goal for Machism and refuse that the entire international community, that our official selections, be whatever they are, and that our football teams play in blood-stained fields of women killed by macho satraps. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u76	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u77	Thank you, President. Good morning. I want to begin with the text of the proposed non-law of the Joint Group, which talks about denouncing the situation of millions of women in the world in countries that violate people's fundamental rights and especially women's rights. He also speaks of asking for a complaint from the Spanish and Greek governments about this situation, and we agree with that vision. Women have been claiming our space for centuries, and we demand that this theoretical equality, which actually exists, be a real equality. And on that bench we've been fighting for people's equality for a hundred and forty years; that's our origin. We've been fighting for feminism for a hundred and forty years without any kind of complex. Not pajamas and gym feminism, but feminism that seeks real equality, because Machism is everywhere — it's true — also in sport, also in football. This also speaks, indeed, the latest report by Amnesty International of 2017-2018. It states that the rights of women and children are violated practically in all countries around the world: Sierra Leone, Equatorial Guinea, Tanzania, Liberia, Malaysia, Mozambique, Swaziland, South Africa, Burquina Faso, Angola, Senegal, Ghana, the Dominican Republic, Mexico, Nicaragua, Jamaica, Colombia, Cuba, Paraguay, The Salvador, Haiti, Honduras, Suriname, Argentina, Uruguay, Venezuela, India, Pakistan, Afghanistan, China, Jordan, Lebanon, Tunisia, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Morocco, Poland, Ireland, Northern Ireland, Malta, Russia, Croatia, Romania, Albania, Lithuania, Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, Georgia, Chechnya and many more. Only Canada and some European states could be home to sporting events if it were so, and you have to question it. I'll literally use a few words: retarded; bitch; shame; you're a bitch; what a bitch you are; whore; bitch, go scrub; bitch, go home. That happened in San Lorenzo del Escorial just a few days ago when parents and mothers of children screamed these insults at a football referee. That means that Machism is also in the world of sport, it's in the ordinary life of all of us. But that doesn't mean that we have power in this chamber, not even in the Government of the State, not even in the Council of Galicia to be able to change this situation with the fundamental petition that makes this non-law proposal, that is, to refuse to send sports representation to sporting events. Why? Because decisions on sending or not sports equipment are not taken by countries, they are not taken by states, they are taken by federations, in this case by the Football Federation, by sports federations. In fact, in Germany the German Football Federation has just decided precisely that which is required here. Yes, for the Olympics, where it's the governments that make those decisions. Many questions arise: what would we do with the competitions in Spain or Galicia against the selections of countries that do not respect human rights? Galicia against Venezuela in football, for example. What do we do, don't we play, don't we let them enter Galicia? Of course... No, it's an example because it was the last game that was played, not that there was no other selection, it was the reality. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] What will women and sportsmen think about training the top for Olympic games every four years if we don't let them come to just us and not other countries? What will those of San Lorenzo del Escorial who are very proud of these insults to that football referee think? We really believe that what we must do is we must fight to eliminate any kind of discrimination in those countries, also in our own countries, which is good enough to do! The example is San Lorenzo del Escorial, that football game. And that protection for women today not only by President Feijóo, but also by Santiago Abascal in the general election debate, is another example. We must fight to eliminate all discrimination in the countries that will host sporting events — we believe — and we must achieve a consensus, empower the struggle for an international consensus in that sense, must we not? And that international consensus between states is what we believe should be in this non-law proposal, and precisely in that sense goes our amendment. It is more: we believe that the Government of Galicia, the Government of the State and all the governments of the autonomous communities should work to achieve this international consensus not only in the sports world, but that what we should do would be to work to eradicate all discrimination against all women in all countries of the world, to host or not any kind of sport competition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u79	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. I mentioned Mr. Villares in the vicinity of November 25th. We also want to remember it, but we also want to remember that today is precisely November 20th and that, although some of us here had not touched us to live frankism with Franco, unfortunately we have to regret that Frankism without Franco remains unfortunately alive, and very alive, and encouraged, in addition, on the right and on the extreme right. And it has a very important responsibility that we have gone back in many ways with regard to women's equality with regard to the progress that Republicans had previously made. [[Applause]] Today we will also talk about the Republican spirit. But before I wanted to remember one question, since Mr Feijóo today returned to be Fake-joo and left several fake news regarding equality, he wouldn't give me time to go one by one, but I'm here — although I left on the scene — the Official Gazette of Galicia in March 2009, where the periodic aids set up up up to a maximum of three IPREMs come. Today it's even lower that scale and it's increased last year thanks to a proposal by the Nationalist Block of Wales after a cut of more than ten years. [[Applause]] So that's the reality. [[Applause]] Logically, there are more women demanding today than twelve years ago because the law has developed, but that's the reality. We're grateful they're rectified, but when they got to the government, what they did was cut off. In any case, prior to this question of what we are talking about today about the sport and tolerance of male violence, I also want to add to the congratulations that were already on yesterday to women footballers for that successful strike, for historical, for massive and for obtaining wage claims and for bias; and to remind us that this puts us in front of the mirror of machismo that still remains in many sports institutions and in many sports. Because we must also point out that there are claims that they put on the table that we think are bloody that today, even though we pretend to be an advanced country, they are not achieved as, for example, something as elementary as having thirty days of vacation. They're not asking to leave for six months in the Bahamas either! We must remember, or regret rather, the lack of solidarity that he had also among many great male footballers. Again, not only did we see the gender gap and lack of solidarity in that aspect, but we also saw that class gap. For the most millionaires, I think we can say that less solidarity. In any case, focusing on the question of what we are talking about today, more specifically, we believe that the Greek footballer Verónica Boquete gave the target of the issue when he said that "to play the Supercopa in a country like Saudi Arabia was to reward the aggressor." That's the bottom line. We can look for the best formulation, the best way to prevent this from happening, but the reality is that by favoring these kinds of initiatives, what you do is reward the aggressors, rewarding the normality of violence against women in a country where women have been allowed to drive for only a year. That gives an idea of the barbarity of what we're talking about, and it also gives an idea of small steps that are not enough for a society to be called "democratic", and that are often increased by those who have interests in those countries to disguise it as a democracy that is not such. It's important that we focus on sporting events, and we agree with many of the aspects that Mr. Villares or Mrs. Vilan collected here. But we must also speak clearly of another very important element, which also has many communicative focuses and which also sends an equal or more negative message to do sporting events in those countries and to compete for these competitions, which is to continue to allow those gentlemen who collect wages from our taxes, such as the monarchy, to permanently whiten countries like this. [[Applause]] And the Spanish monarchy with Saudi Arabia is already delusional. "Felipe VI receives in Zarzuela the heir prince of Saudi Arabia." [[Mrs. Presas Bergantiños read a document.]] Here we have the previous king also: "King Juan Carlos and Salman, the photo of shame." [[Mrs. Presas Bergantiños read another document.]] This even gave El Mundo, which is not a newspaper with a particularly Bolshevik editorial line, pro communist and pro Venezuela. But that after you acknowledge yourself as it was the intellectual craftsman of the murder of a journalist who goes there this gentleman, paid by all of us, without having chosen him in addition to the polls, photographing himself with these people is regrettable. [[Applause]] How regrettable it is that we have also seen such issues as this in recent weeks: "The King has avoided giving the Saudi regime the democratic councils formulated in Cuba." [[Mrs. Presas Bergantiños read another document.]] There's a trick that a Spanish monarch is going to Cuba pretending to be a democracy! A gentleman who hasn't chosen anyone and will assume women's rights to a country like Saudi Arabia... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u80	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u81	Of course, it's frankly regrettable. It's the symptom that there's a lot left to go on. In any case, we agree with a consensus that there is a political pronouncement against such events, which in the end is that. Because it is true that it will not change the world because we say it in the German Parliament or because it says Verónica Boquete. In the end, it's to focus on the issue and focus on how you can't tolerate this policy of friendship with the aggressors. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u82	Thank you. Joint Left Group, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u83	Thank you very much. Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. From our group we agree that we have to condemn clearly and break any kind of political practice or any kind of action that undermines or supports some kind of aggression and human rights violation, especially women, that we suffer in absolutely every country in the world, although it is true that in different seriousness or in different virulence. That is why we want to raise two specific questions. First of all, being totally in agreement with Mr. Villares' exhibition, at the bottom and the proposition he makes, we want to express that not only should we see the ball in the alien eye, because it seems as if in inequality in women's sport with respect to men's sport in the most Westernized world... it seems that we want to focus only on those countries... with all the reason! So I want to begin, on behalf of our group, by congratulating the women of football, who, after a historic strike — as it has been said — finally having a collective agreement, in which they asked for no less than a minimum wage, a decent working day and being able to reconcile. It seems unacceptable that they have to complain about this by taking a break and not out of a legal regulation that guarantees their equality in this area as well. In fact, as it shows the seriousness of the situation that women also suffer in our country, in the sports world, we see wage inequalities: seven hundred euros for them and four hundred for them. [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga reads a document.]] One example is the athlete Paloma Salas, who refused to participate in a popular race because of this situation; something that also happened in the Coruña with a flag of traitors, where they received two thousand euros and a thousand euros, or in the surfing championship in Cantabria, where the winner received two thousand euros and, in the same position in the female category, women received five hundred euros. This must be secured by law. And there is a responsibility on the part of executives and federations, because in all competitions organized, funded, subsidized or sponsored by public administrations, or related public law entities, men and women must be treated equally without excuse. When there's public money, there's no excuse. Today, laws in our country do not protect equality. We have a sport law in 1990 that systematically excludes women from professionalism in this field, and doesn't even contemplate it. It's about women's sport as a sub-genenary and it's about time for man to stop being the barrier of all things, also in sport; because being different and having different categories doesn't mean being inferior to pay, either in terms of conditions, or social valuation. That draft law that was intended to push before the legislation was finished was in the ink, but it mustn't be a subject that stays in the ink. But it's not just something from Spain. In France we saw an empty press room in front of the women's Tour winner and a single journalist arrived. France, a country that boasts of vanguard and which is actually vanguard on many subjects, also has large eves on this. The appearance of a brilliant sportsman, with an exceptional handkerchief, was not covered by the media. Having said that, we also know the seriousness of the situation of women in these neighbouring Eastern countries who have other political regimes — it has become a list — and we are absolutely in favour of a conviction in both Spain and Galicia, as an international condemnation. We have to get to work. Indeed, this transcends what the Government of the State does. We believe that international consensus must be sought and that this issue should be taken directly to Europe or to international bodies such as the UN to make a pact as no country will accept participation in this type of place where international legislation is not complied with, the declaration of human rights, and that it should be made from the relevant bodies. A proposal that directly affects the world federations, so that they cannot accept or propose to go to these countries to carry out these kinds of events. A strong bet, committed to the cause, that can't be stained with useless or that can't be carried out by opening a stage of "all but Spain". As an example of what can be done, from our group we are presenting an amendment to the budgets of a million euros to promote women's sport. We believe that on the part of the People's Party — and I am going to finish — should not be afraid or excuse yourself for not supporting something that is an international issue and that international support should be sought. Fear gives us — I was told by a fellow, a federal sportsman, an international federal champion — that any day the member of the People's Party — by his party, Mr. Abascal — will arrive at the Congress of Deputies on issues such as these denouncing that feminists want to ban our national heroes, especially those of football, like Mr. Andrés Inesta, because we already know that Mr. Gerard Piqué's partner, Mr. Smith, denies his greeting because he despises Spain. [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga is heading right.]] Any day you'll be thrown out, too, or you'll be urged by Mr. Married to take the People's Party by separatists and Mr. Feijó to be separatist and nationalist...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u84	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u85	It's not a matter of proudly representing our country or our sportsmen, or of limiting them, or stealing emblems, or our identity sign, or our iberian and grandiose character, but it's a matter of human rights and fighting for equality with the mechanisms we have in our hands. So we urge the leaders of the People's Party to choose which side they are and to support initiatives that support not to violate women's rights.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u87	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. I also want to add my congratulations to the footballers for the collective agreement they have reached,... footballers, forgiveness, don't you understand me?, to the footballers for the collective agreement they have reached, which has taken them less time to negotiate than the victims of gender violence were delaying in receiving the periodic assistance of that wonderful Bipartite, between eight and ten months, Mrs. Presas. [[They point out to Mr. Pazos Couñago from the benches on his left that the genre is female, "the footballers."]] [[Applause]] Mr. Villares is presenting a well-intentioned proposal today, no doubt, but I think it is unfortunate, because he intends to convert injustice with more injustice. This proposal would force our athletes, women and men to give up competing on the basis of the country that is chosen as the seat of a particular sporting event. We believe that our sportsmen train hard and that what they're asking is that the choice of the venues of the competitions is improved and not that they are prevented from participating in the high competition. The second point that attracts our attention is that Mr Villares puts the international blockade as a formula for democratizing countries that violate human rights. Living to see!, left asking for international blockades. But this proposal would deprive the population of those countries of the beneficial effects of the so-called "sport diplomacy". One must remember examples like the one in Berlin in 1936, with an Olympic hero, an African American, Jessy Owens, becoming the great triumphant of the Olympics in the very heart of Nazi Germany. We think these things are very valuable. The PP defends the right of our athletes to compete in any country and with greater strength we will defend their right to denounce any unjust situation that is found, with complete freedom and with the support and support of one of the most consolidated democracies in the world, Spain. And so we shared the brave attitude of Ana Peleteiro, who came to compete with Doha and denounced the discrimination that women suffer in Qatar. [[Applause]] And, of course, we defend Vero Boquete's right to denounce that celebrating the Super Cup in Saudi Arabia is a prize to the aggressor. What we do not defend is the hypocrisy exercises of socialism, which before the siege was elected, the election of Saudi Arabia, refused to broadcast the Super Cup on Spanish Radiotelevision, but, by means, signed an agreement with the Royal Spanish Football Federation to spread its international promotional agenda, including this event. The signer is the Secretary of State of global Spain, also known as the author of Mr. Sánchez's resistance manual. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago shows a document before the House.]] The PP has been working together with other parties for many years for real equality and we are willing to follow that path, but we are not going to accept certificates of good conduct on the part of a left that bases its self-proclaimed moral superiority in a permanent exercise of dismemberment. Ladies and gentlemen, full menu! Today they gave lessons of feminism those who spent the money of the unemployed on prostitution, those who whipped women journalists until they bled; those who rode contradictions like they financed you on television an autocratic regime that requires... [[Mr. Pazos Couñago shows a document before the House.]] [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u88	Silence.Oh, my God! Quiet, please! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, Mrs. Santos, I'm not responsible for that comment... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I can't call an order to a deputy because he makes use of a comment that has been made. How will I call it the order? You're protected. I can't call order to anyone who uses it... I can't. And Allah is All-knowing, All-Wise. Don't ask me. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Santos, that's it. No, I'm not ashamed. Mrs. Santos, the discussion is over. Silence! Mr. Paz, continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u89	Yes, when Mrs. Santos permits me. I repeat, those who would whip women journalists until they bled, those who were riding contradictions like financing you on television a regime, the Iranian, which requires the presenters to cover their heads with a cloth here, in Spain, because the Ayatollah pays and the Ayatollah sends, Mrs. Santos. [[Applause]] Today we are told of democracy by the defenders of Cuba de Castro, the defenders of Venezuela de Chávez and Maduro, the defenders of Nicaragua de Ortega. Today, people who envy the Spaniards who lived in Venezuela are distracted by human rights, those who asked for Europe "a little of that warm Latin American wind that leads to so much boredom", and those of "Chávez lives, the struggle continues", and those of "Chávez, I swear, we will vote for Maduro." Today we are accused of totalitarians who celebrated the Centenary of the Russian Revolution, because there must be something to celebrate in a regime that has caused more than 100 million deaths worldwide. By the way, Western Europe recommends banning public display of its symbols. Today, ladies and gentlemen, you dare criticize the agreement with Vox, which served to end the systemic corruption of Andalusia, the same, Your Honor, who are looking for a pact with Mr. Torra, the Catalan Le Pen heir to the corrupt convergence of 3 percent... [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u90	Silence! Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u91	...those who are looking for a pact with the most moderate Mr. Otegui, those who are looking for a pact with those convicted of secession. Today they criticize the pacts with other political forces who have sworn that they would never compromise with populism, because the end of populism "is Chávez's Venezuela, poverty, reasoning cards, lack of democracy and inequality," Pedro Sánchez said. Gentlemen, how drowsy! Canta dememoría! [[Applause]] I'll remind you of what they say, to see if you remember this, ladies and gentlemen: "We're neither left nor right, we're the ones below that go against the ones at the top." What a change he made! They're no longer the ones below, they're the ones on the side, the ones in the chalet on the side.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u92	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u93	They now embrace the corrupt socialist caste, with two presidents of the PSOE condemned for making political clientelism with 687 million euros of unemployed, the poor, the most needy. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u94	Quiet, Mrs. Santos...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u95	And what is your excuse, Mrs. Santos, that you have to look for this embrace to achieve a pact among progressives?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u96	Finish it, Mr. Pazos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u97	I'm done, president. But, man, come to me from the embrace to look for the pact among progressives...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u98	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u99	Look, ladies and gentlemen, the progressives are progressing what the pickpocketers are in the wallets. I wonder if you can be more cynical, and when I look at that bench I have the answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u100	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. Thank you, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u101	If you can!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u102	Your time is up. Thank you. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Villares. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Strong murmurers.]] Wait, Mr. Villares, wait. Wait for the spirits to follow. A little quiet, please! All this is going to be at the expense of the schedule. You can't talk to a person about this exchange you're having. Mr. Vega and Mr. Cal, be quiet! They're always the same. Silence! I always shoot at the same side! They're always the same. It's just something...! You have to change them from the ladder; otherwise, it'll be impossible. Silence! Mr. Villares, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. He makes me, for moments, sad, and even I feel some compassion for Mr. Pazos in his intervention, for the frivolity with which he has dealt with a subject that is so difficult and so complex. I'm sure, in addition, that you don't feel everything you said from this rostrum. Some things do, but others I'm sure I don't. Because we're talking about something that doesn't have complexity, it doesn't have complications for people's lives. We're talking about things that cost people their lives. And if you want to formulate another kind of initiatives that go in another way to defend life — and I say no more rights, but life, which is the first of the rights — please present them and we will be willing to discuss them and approve them. But trying to divert a debate that is as important as this, where there are people — there are people, no women, because we are talking specifically about women's rights, women's lives —... because it seems to us that frivolization is absolutely unnecessary. You can win the vote anyway without having to say a few things. So they respect the word from the gallery of certain things, which is to return to essential contexts of the values that we all defend, including you, I'm sure. Well, with regard to the proposal made by the Socialist Party and its speech, we understand that what happens in the stadium of San Lorenzo do Escorial is not equal to what happens in Arabia. Just like any other situation among individuals is not comparable to a situation of structural domination, explicit, of the exercise of torture, of murder. Of course not, I know. So that's why I call to differentiate plans and so I also call to get back what is the original idea of this very initiative. We're talking about a complaint of cases that are so, so, so bloody and that they overflow any limit of what is acceptable to human beings that we're asking for, as Veronica Boquete said, simply not to be awarded with these competitions. We're asking you not to put them first, to be marked, to tell them that we can't accept this or to play. And that's why we're talking about it. We think it's worth looking for a meeting place around the defense of fundamental rights. We are aware — and it has already been said here since the rostrum — that football is a central issue because it is a symbolic issue which has immense emotional power, which has tremendous power of empathy generation and which also transmits a lot of normality. I want to end with two or three references to Amnesty International's latest reports on Saudi Arabia, which denounces how feminism, atheism and homosexuality are classified. And it is classified as a crime, in the particular case, of atheism, punished with the death penalty by the mere fact of a statement about one's own beliefs, like feminism and homosexuality, which can justify penalties that can end life in the most atrocious way possible. I want to recall again the memory of Nasrin Sotoudeh, sentenced to 38 years in prison and 148 beatings for defending women's rights in Iran. And I would like to remind you — and I also say that no one is afraid of being brave in this House — that the European Parliament issued in May 2018 resolutions on the situation of women in Saudi Arabia calling for immediate and unconditional freedom of all women's defenders and defenders of women's rights in that country. Here, in this Parliament, we are not going to invent anything today with this proposal or with the institutional statement that Amnesty International proposes. That resolution also called for a stronger response from Europe, from its institutions. We are a European institution, even if we don't have the flag of the Union there where the other two are. This resolution should serve as a catalyst for EU member states to increase pressure on Saudi authorities to put an end to repression against human rights activists and activists in the country. We are going to accept the amendment of the Socialist Party, because we want to seek a consensus today in this House so that a resolution can be unanimously supported and because it seems to us that, above all that can be said today in this debate, with other purposes that I fear are alien to what was the object of the proposal itself not of law, the important thing for us is that there should be a support for this House...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u104	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u105	...to this particular problem, and a concrete denunciation of this whitening attempt situation of what are the macho satrapies that exist today in so many countries of the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u106	Thank you, Mr. Villares. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out in Galician Union for the implementation of a catalogue of minimum hospital services in all Galician hospitals, as well as to avoid the loss of more professional and material resources
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u107	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion not of law, Mr. Torrado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u108	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. Today we have a debate on what Members who have read the example initiative, which is the Verín Hospital, will see. But it seems to us that it fits perfectly with the description of what's going on with all the comarcas hospitals in Galicia. It has to do with a health model issue. For us, the debate about the comarcal hospitals and services that they have assigned, and which allow citizens to have them at their earliest disposal, has to do with planning the structure of our health system. There are probably two models for the structure of these services. The People's Party defends one, and from the socialists we defend another, which has to do with a position probably not entirely antagonistic but rather quite discrepant. For trying to contextualize it, since the Government of the People's Party works at the concentration of services. The comarcas hospitals provide services for university hospitals, for the city's hospital complexes. And in addition to doing this horizontal concentration — as we might call it — there is also a vertical concentration that prioritizes some types of services, especially those of high performance, the medicine of recent advances, regarding the simplest medicine, of primary care. "Simpler" is understood in terms of "easier" It's the same cinema, but we can't prefer Doctor House than Family Physician. And that's basically the People's Party model. In any case, our proposal, our idea, has to do with services having to be closer. And this population structure that we have in Galicia, the population dispersion, this aging of what we've always talked about, but especially in rural areas, has to do with our proposal that services have to be more diffused, more dispersed. And we need to give more skills to comarcial hospitals. That is what I basically say — allow me to speak — the experts in primary care, in that document which circulates and which sets out some achievements, which basically speaks — as everyone could know, sure — of decentralizing services. And he talks about giving them, in the case of health centres -- so I say it's a parenthesis -- more competences and more ability to make decisions. We think the same thing, we think it's also a good idea in the case of hospitals, and for the same reason: so that comarcial hospitals have more decision-making and self-management capacity. It passes through Verín, passes through the boat, passes through Salnès or passes through Cee that, to request or to have some more material resource — the simplest even — there is a need to ask the older brother for permission. And the older brother, the big hospital, can even grant sometimes even a printer, for setting a very vulgar example. The People's Party prefers another model of concentration, which we now have, that with the existing health areas it no longer covered all the comarcas hospitals. The one in Verín, which is the case that we set the example today, was no longer in that dispersal, but yes those who had it, as in Valdeorras, in Lemos, in the Navy and Salnes, which were already lost these health areas in the last reform. And so now, with those seven, we've lost the capacity that the seven comarcial hospitals have more self-management capacity. And there it happens — from our point of view — that from there comes this model that ultimately has some direct repercussions. In specific services — from which we will speak now — too; but for example, also in others that are not those apparent basic services but are these in everyday life. From there comes the problem of hemodynamics, which, with the need to concentrate services, loses the ability to attend, as I think it happened in Lugo and Ourense — in these cases even talking about centres of cities in Galicia — that did not have that hemodynamics service and that arrived — if it arrived completely, that it is not even clear — through many claims and systematically denied by the People's Party until they were able to announce it in an election campaign. From there was born the pediatric concentration that is in progress and that the People's Party wants to implement through the decisions of the Government of the Union to concentrate pediatricians as the only solution to a much more general problem that would have some other ways of being able to be resolved — not entirely but with great progress —. Here comes our proposal for basic services, because basically what we're proposing is to guarantee or anchor services in rural areas. The big proposal of the People's Party is that of zero taxes. By transferring it to the issue of public health, zero taxes, which, worth redundancy, is absolutely a lie, unless they're going to not charge the VAT on the bread bar to anyone who buys it out of the cities. Because it's absurd to talk about zero taxes. It's a good advertising slogan, but any tax expert can know that zero taxes are little less than talking about. But, finally, here, the president can even tell that we have 407 more professionals, even though they are practically all of consolidation, that while he does that, if others say that someone is lying, they call us attention. And, in the meantime, from the table he laughs at the others. But ultimately, they can talk about what it is, but zero taxes — which is a lie, in fact, is a lie — would help not really do what we must do, which is to make it effective to, precisely, have a certain positive attention and discrimination towards that rural one. To translate it: we are concerned about the fact that, for example, speaking of Verín, the people who are in Castrelo do Val or in Vilardevós or in Monterrey have in a hospital almost an hour and a half. And it seems to the People's Party that people have the hospital in an hour and a half. But that's right, they take his taxes off so they can go to Ferrari. So it's a lot more about bringing hospitals to Ferrari or Harley-Davidson, because it's about it, making taxes effective so that services are in the rural field, and that's our proposal, that we have to have some positive discrimination with the rural area, and in particular in this case, with the county hospitals. In the example of Verín, which you will know, there are problems in some specific services. There are some very clear demands in the dermatology service or in the pediatrics service, and there is the possibility of anchoring services there, as we can anchor them in the other comarcal hospitals, which have to do with the most common functioning. It's not, of course, to take everything to all places because yes, nor to fill all the services of all the populations of Galicia -- that's not being proposed by anyone, and it doesn't even make sense -- but a catalogue of minimum services. What do we propose? We propose that there be some determined services, those that are most used, those that are most essential, those that have, of course, more natural to be in all places, that are anchored. What does "enclades" mean? Have the material and human resources to be owned by hospitals. More competition must be given to hospitals, more stable staff must be provided, and the staff of the services of the comarcal hospitals must be prevented from broken. Because in the end — you know the health-specific professionals who are here — the citizen who goes to the doctor one of the issues that helps you a lot is always having the same doctor. And this doesn't happen in comarcal hospitals, where often it's personal rotational. We already know there are some difficulties, as staff don't want to go. Well then we don't know how it happens with cops or teachers, who would probably prefer, at an early point in their career, to be somewhere else. But why does it happen to them? Because there is positive discrimination, facilities at the time of internal promotion, improvements in working conditions. And that's what you can do, it's in your hand. What's going on is that you don't want to do it, because the intention at the end is to convert comarcal hospitals into large outpatient clinics. It's a two-speed Galicia, also sanitarily. What do we propose? There is a catalogue of basic services. We, at the time of the debate of the Health Act, made a proposal, which was criticized because it was impossible to take this to comarcas hospitals. Well, it's funny, because to all the proposals we made from that service catalogue to Junta, it said I already had it in some county hospitals. So either the board assumes that what they're saying they have is impossible or they're actually using an argument that didn't make any sense. But, well, that's what we're used to. In any case, let's try to agree on a catalogue of services. What should it be based on? In those services that are most demanding. And obviously it's much more demanding a cardiology service in every hospital than some other precision medicine. It doesn't make sense, as we say, everything in every place, but rather a catalogue of basic services. Because it would allow our elders — especially because they're the ones who use hospitals most, especially comarcas — to have cardiologists, to have pneumologists, to have a trauma service, to be able to care for them, and that we don't have to live, as happens in some comarcas hospitals and also in the case of Verín, that people who have to be treated in traumatology and then in rehabilitation have to start moving to Ourense, which takes a lot of time. And that's what we can do. It's not everything in every place, but it's fundamental in every place. It's not everything for everyone, but we certainly have equity in access to fundamental services. It is basically a fairly logical principle in the distribution of services: that basic and fundamental is in access to equity for all. And then, what's more specialized, what we need to be more specialized, is obviously not going to be everywhere, but we must facilitate their access in any case. But if we consider this basic service catalogue, what is the basis of the proposal basically? It's not to say they are, because if one enters the websites or meets the resolutions or meets the declarations, all the services are everywhere. What's a service in a hospital? You have your own staff, that your staff are there, that it's not personal that you go only Tuesdays or just Thursdays, and for some of the county, and that there are others next week. Because people also demand that they be the same professionals. From that, we believe that it is possible to do so, to provide hospitals with certain self-management capacity so that they have their own professionals and so that those services, precisely those services, may be with staff who know the population better, who knows the environment better and who can have more continuous attention. From that we can offer a much more equitable service and, instead of talking about zero taxes for rural people — which is also a lie — we can talk about basic services for rural people — which is what we are now not talking about, and in the health sector specifically. Taking advantage of the possibility that it may be voted in favour, or that we can speak of this catalogue in the future, or at the most present, and in order to draw it up among all, we call for the vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u109	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u110	Thank you, President. Good day to all and all. Well, the health model of the German Government is clearly seen today as an example of dismantling what had to be a single service and a public service. Media and resources have declined for the entire population, but where the abandonment is most strongly seen is in the appropriations that existed earlier in the rural environment. The comarcas hospitals, of which Mr. Torrado spoke here, are suffering enormous and brutal dismantling, and are recentralizing means that were previously closer to citizenship, with the disorder that this causes, among other things, as regards mobility of people, displacements, accessibility to services and the increase of economic costs for these displacements, etc. Clear and real examples — and here I ask the honourable senators, especially those of the People's Party, that please do not deny us, because we are many of the wounded who suffer the cuts of the People's Party in rural health — are, in the central mass, the dismantling of services at the Valdeorras Comarcal Hospital and the continuing absence of the Trives pediatrician. Now it adds to the lack of a doctor in Teixeira, which exemplifies the extermination to which the policies of the Government of Feijóo throw our districts. Because the lack of investment in health has often increased the demographic downturn that confronts the area itself. During the summer months, in the county of Teixeira, they had a doctor two hours a day. We're talking about an era in which their population triples, because my optional one covered the holidays of the Sil Stop Doctor and Chandrexa Complainant, considerably diminishing attention to the populations of these municipalities. This is a new step in the elimination of health in rural areas, with examples that add up to the usual lack of pediatricians. In Castro Caldelas there is only two hours a week on Tuesday, usually replaced by a head doctor to cover absences; or in Trives, where only Thursdays go to the health center, also two hours and not every week, since it is often ill and it is low and it doesn't cover the squares, on vacations they don't cover the squares, with which many families have and we have to take the children to Maceda or to the Street when they are sick. And we also have to add to this the continued dismantling of Valdeorras Comarcal Hospital in terms of the loss of services in urology, preventive rehabilitation and cardiology — we also have to add dermatology — as well as serious surgical problems in the pursuit of surgery, if we do not directly eliminate surgical interventions themselves, if we leave them below minimum, because there will be only one active surgery left out of the three that we had before. Just as it's going to happen with the trauma service, by promoting that for any intervention the citizen must travel to Ourense. And from O Barco more than an hour and a half ago. The Hospital de Verín, also named him here Mr. Torrado, is being subjected to cuts in his own attention in recent years. In pediatrics, the 24-hour guards are not always guaranteed, with dates where our attention is drawn directly to Ourense, with more than one hour of travel and economic cost, and but the child or child who goes sick, that this is often not quantifiable. There have been changes in dating in cardiology in recent months, fearing users that this service will end or that it will end and be derived from Ourense. As for the one who no longer reaches the doctor alone, the kitchen service, which is already outsourced, has the same concessionaire company for the kitchen as the one for the coffee shop, sharing personal. At the moment, it's also planned to go out of the contest, and the new dealership would have to subrogate the coffee shop staff, but not the kitchen staff, with which there's concern about these jobs. As for the anesthesiologists, there are also only three of the four squares that existed; one is low and not covered. And there are few janitors. Mr. Torrado said very well that, of course, Junta tells us that all services are everywhere. Yes, but how are they, in which hours they don't attend and how do they treat us? And that's why the zero tax on rural equal was better than we didn't have those zero tax that sells so much to Junta, but that we did have the same services that other people have in cities. Last year — this was a real case — a father went to put a hepatitis vaccine on a child, went to Trives pediatrician. But the pediatrician wasn't there that day, so Maceda was mined. Maceda arrived and the vaccine wasn't there. So he had to go back to Manzaneda and the next day he had to go to Ourense to put a vaccine. So he lost two whole days, and it was a case like the ones that are giving us all the time in the countryside. So we, from the Joint Parliamentary Group, from En Marea, have defended this initiative. We're going to vote in favour because we think we have to have a unique, public and universal health. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u111	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u112	Good morning. A fundamental objective of a health system that really had the objective of having the patient at the center of their attention would have to be to guarantee equity in access, that all Greeks and Greeks, in the case of Galicia, have the services we need for healing, for health protection, and that we have them close and accessible. And that's not enough with the official speech of the People's Party that all the Greeks and Greeks will have at the end of the legislation or a new or torn hospital and a new or torn health center. That's not enough, what it's all about is that these centers also have the resources, the means, the necessary professionals, to pay attention. And what it's about is not that the lack of these resources means getting there or not arriving in time, avoiding sequelae or that these sequelae are very high. It's about the difference between health or non-health, and even in many cases between life and death. During the debate of the amendment of the Health Act, which approved the People's Party alone, we warned by active and passive warning that the model was in the direction of diverting the attention of the population and the progressive dismantling of the comarcal hospitals. Well, the reality is going to be tense, and we can talk about the Navy, where the pacemakers were done earlier at the Costa Hospital and now at Lugo, which is 100 kilometers away from this hospital — with its revisions and its stack changes, which need to be done in Lugo. The surgical interventions of trauma are deriving massively from Lugo — I insist, 100 kilometers —. And because of the lack of sufficient staff, many of the childbirths with some difficulty are already derived from Lugo as well. And the same has been true since the Verín Hospital. We can talk about Monforte, where they've been waiting for more than a year for a digestion, where these specialists are replacing themselves with internal medicine doctors because of the lack of these specialists. We can talk about Salnés Hospital, where the natural delivery unit has been eliminated; neurodiatry, andrology, cardiology and neurology are only for some neighbors and neighbors of the region, not for the rest, only for the neighbors of Vilagaría and Vilanova. We can talk about the boat -- the cardiologist already consults in Ourense, and there's no rehabilitation. And indeed, in Verín, with pediatrics, with cardiology, with dermatology, they have been having problems for months. I mean, we're talking about that, of course, there's no fairness in access when there's a lot of people in our country who, depending on where they live, have some services or don't have them. Regarding the People's Party trap of saying that there are many professionals who don't want to go to these comarcal hospitals and so on, we all know that it's invented how it is done to equip and make attractive these destinations: with plus, with more score for selective processes or for transfers. It's just that it's already invented, the question is to want, what you can't use it as an excuse not to provide professionals. And then there are certain specialties in which there are enough professionals and they don't equip themselves. We are currently debating some professions in this Parliament in recent times, such as occupational therapy or speech therapy, in which non-equity throughout Galicia is total and absolute. There are hospitals where there is no logo, absolutely no logo, or where occupational therapy is equipped with professionals in a way that is more or less random — we don't know what the criteria for this are. And in these cases we don't know what's the reason that a person who has acquired brain damage or who has an stroke because he has no right to be treated by a speech therapist or an occupational therapist because he doesn't exist — even though they're in the service portfolio and it's then an obligation. We can talk about this going on at Salnes Hospital, that there's no speech therapy or occupational therapy, and there's practically no such thing in any of the county hospitals. There's no speech therapy in Ourense in the hospital, all over the area. The reasons? Well, randomly. We can talk about pediatrics. Why is there no pediatric surgery at Ourense Hospital and you have to move to Vigo? There are certainly some unjustifiable lack of equity that makes Galician people, depending on where they live, have some services or others, or that they have absolutely none. This is solved with political will, wanting to provide the population of these resources. Now, of course, the People's Party is not on this line. And of course we will support the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left Joint Group, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u114	Thank you, President. As a preliminary matter, and with Mr. Torrado's permission, I am a communist, militant and leader, and I am absolutely proud of my party and my military. And I want to move in this Parliament that we hear this morning absolute disgraces. [[Applause]] What matters to Mr. President is not the content of the t-shirt, because he and I know we don't agree with that content. What matters to you is that in this Parliament we can have freedom of expression and that communists, socialists and nationalists can express themselves in this Parliament, because they consider all this to be theirs. [[Applause]] And I'll tell you something. You should be a little more...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u115	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u116	...you should be a little more humble...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u117	Silence! And let's get to the point. [[Strong murmurers.]] Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u118	No, here I was allowed to speak to other Members by moving absolute shames and I was quiet. I'll intervene! You are here and should be a little more humble, because communist militants and other anti-Francist militants have endured forty years of repression and dictatorship. Be humble and thank you for sitting in a democratic Parliament! [[Applause]] And I'm telling you one thing -- and I'm going to go to the point already -- I have no problem expressing my ideology. I'm absolutely proud.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u119	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u120	Here those who have been trying to run away from Vox are the lords and ladies of the People's Party. And I'm telling them something else -- and I'm done with this.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u121	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u122	Here it was slid in the previous intervention which should be banned from communist symbols. Watch out, because that's where the fascism enters. You're getting close to the pelagic plague that's invading Europe. [[Balbordo.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u123	Silence! That's the question, Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u124	Be careful about this, because our country is going to regret it!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u125	That's the question, Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u126	Yes, thank you, Mr. President, I'm going to go to the issue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u127	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u128	I'm going to go to the point because, of course, the issue of non-equity in health services is an absolutely important matter...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u129	Quiet, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u130	Do you mind, Mrs Prado, respecting democracy and speaking shifts?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u131	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u132	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u133	Mrs. Prado, silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u134	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u135	The lack of equity...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u136	Quiet. Come on, please! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u137	The lack of equity in the health system is a problem. We've got a government that's carrying a whole legislation transferring that this is going to be the rural legislation and yet it's keeping some comarcal hospitals that have less and less services. It has been explained here and it has been the result of debate in the Committee on Health and this plenary session in this House. It's an important element and I think here is an example that is correct, which is the Verín Hospital. Last week we were also gathered with the workers and the workers of the Ourense Hospital Complex, and we were already told the difficulty that even existed to care for our own births at the Verín Hospital. Because, like that pediatrician who has been extended to three times retirement is no longer in a position to serve that service, there are absolute difficulties. This is an example, but it is an example of a lack of equity. And in the end, what happens is that people who live in rural areas because they've always lived there or because they want and decide to live there have a problem with access to services. And, in fact, the province of Ourense is a paradigm of the elimination of services. We could talk — that we have already done so, and not only in hospital care but also in primary care — about the absence of enough matrons, the absence of logos — if you have been named here, I think it was the voice of the BNG. In other words, there are a number of elements that are being moved, on the one hand, from the amendment to the Galician Health Act and also from the loss of areas, but also from the beginning of the application of replacement rates and cuts in various services. It seems reasonable — and this proposal from the Socialist Party has already come to the debate and we have already supported it — to move that, at least, if you make a prediction of the health services of those who can enjoy the citizens of Galicia in all the municipalities in which you live. At this moment, the reality — this sad reality — is that, by waiting lists in some places, or because services have been deteriorating or disappearing, there is no fairness in our country. And we also have an obvious issue that escapes from the health care system, but it has a lot to do with, which is the absence of territorial vertebration, the absence of transport that also facilitates displacement to some health centres. And, therefore, there's a very high-level pending subject within the Health Council, which is trying to work to correct this gap between rural and urban. By the way, urban services are obviously also deteriorating, but what brings us here today is an element in which there is a lot of difference between rural and urban. I'm done because I don't have any more time. It seems to us that this plan is designed. And we believe, moreover, that if the People's Party were smart, it would sit down to do this job even if it was just because next year there's autonomy. And it's also really good to consider changing the current service structure that the health system has. Thank you. [[Applause]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u138	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Mrs. Solla, it seems surprising that you don't share what I was wearing on my shirt. I don't know if you're sorry but I really can't understand it. [[Mrs. Solla Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] And, of course, I think we're smart in the People's Party, don't doubt it. At least there are some people as smart as you. Mr. Torrado, you immediately disagree when you finish your initiative. He says the services you ask for are contemplated in hospitals. So what do we want that catalogue for? And many cases the opposition voices and voices didn't do to him, because obviously none of them referred to the catalogue of what you're talking about. And, Mrs. Prado, internal medicine doctors are specialists, they don't replace specialists with internal medicine doctors. Internal medicine doctors are also specialists. [[Murmurs.]] Well, we repeated a debate that we had last February in connection with the Valdeorras Hospital, which today is referring to the Verín Hospital, with the difficulty that exists for covering certain squares. In the February debate, I said — as I am more convinced every day — that the change in the territorial structure of the modification of the Galician Health Act was beneficial, and that is really what is allowing the services of these comarcas hospitals to be covered in many cases. In that debate I referred to Teruel — Teruel, capital of the province — where the citizens had to do 350 kilometers to Zaragoza and return to be treated with dermatology, rheumatology or otorrhinolaryngology, and where they had multiple problems in a number of specialities. And one of the measures that the Aragonese Government has taken — which is not the People's Party — you know what it was? Create joint contracts to work in Zaragoza and Teruel, both hospitals. That was a solution that was adopted. According to the Aragonese authorities, the problem exceeded the autonomous community. And President Lambán blamed the situation for the lack of professionals. And I could cite many more examples. Look, all this is the double-sided hemerothecist: Asturias, Andalusia, Catalonia and Extremadura, with primary pediatricians to cover hospitals; deficit of specialists in comarcal hospitals; lack of doctors; coverage of specialists by professionals from other health areas. This, what happens in all these autonomous communities, is it the fault of President Feijóo? Is it the People's Party's fault? No, because he doesn't rule in those communities. The Ministry itself stated, in a report delivered to the autonomous communities in January this year, that "the public health lacks 4,000 specialists." In addition to the problems of primary specialists, there is a shortage of anesthesia, urology, radiodiagnosis, pathological anatomy, general surgery or trauma, among others. And, ladies and gentlemen, the situation at the Verín Hospital isn't beyond what's happening in the rest of Spain. And what is the reality today of the Verín Hospital — what was Mr. Torrado's initiative referring to? Look, pediatrics is covering up with the daily shift of specialists from Ourense. Two interinternity squares were summoned and deserted, no one presented himself. There was an interim dermatologist who asked for the transfer to another health area, exactly with a contract identical to what he had, identical. He went to another health area. It is called the square, and with difficulty to cover it. And how is the subject of dermatology being solved? Well, with teleconsultations with Ourense Hospital and the invaluable collaboration of the local family doctors. Traumatology has up to four specialists today and it has been summoned — or is being called — to the fifth interim square. And palliatives, which are also mentioned in the initiative, are working with the same internal medicine professional for years. And what did the Council do to solve that problem? For the Council asked the Government — for example, for pediatrics — to convene an extraordinary MIR of pediatrics, which has been refused. And we also ask for the removal of the replenishment rate. Nor did he know more, nor did he appear in any of the Socialist Party's or Podemos' program. We're not talking about the health replacement rate. Those would be real solutions, Mr. Torrado, and not your content of the catalogue in which you have insisted since the debate on the amendment to the Health Act with that cut and paste amendment, which included issues such as allergologists, clinical biochemicals, neonatal intensive care and obtaining and implanting tissues in all comarcial hospitals. Listening to him today, it seems you're also going to demand the creation of hemodynamic units in all comarcal hospitals. I don't know. Of course, a catalogue like what you proposed at that time — or even if it was more reasonable than yours — would not at all solve the problem in the face of the shortage of professionals in different specialities. I don't know if, as a necessary measure — and what you ask for at your third point — you would ban the transfers of the staff working in the comarcas hospitals, or if you would force specialists to join these difficult-covered squares. That would, of course, be very Bolivarian and consonant with their new companies for the future government. Instead of "exproving" you'd say "incorporate." In many cases the shortage, as I said, is being resolved by the amendment of the Health Act. I don't know if you're going to fix the problems of Greek health with 1.13% that increased the budget in last Monday's debate. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Group is in favour of any measure that can help to address this situation, but with real solutions: the elimination of the replacement rate, the approval of extra-Community doctors or the amendment of the Specialist Training Decree, to encourage the incorporation of professionals into difficult-to-cover squares. These measures were put on the table in the interterritorial councils, but the change of government from the motion of censure has caused these issues to disappear from the agenda. You work in this direction and urge Government Sánchez to move forward in these measures. They'll help improve public health. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u139	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u140	Thank you, President. Taking advantage of the interference with the debate, let me do one. I'm not a communist, but I read Bertolt Brecht in his day, and it seems to me a good appreciation of "when they come for one they come for all." And there are people in this country who come everywhere. [[Applause]] You need a sensible right! And they're still in time, they're still in time. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I would like to thank the support of the groups who expressed it and disagreed on some question that Mr. Núñez Centeno said. First of all, we need a good otorrino service, a good otorrino service — and surely also logos to teach us how to talk and explain better. It is not a matter of incorporating all services everywhere, and we have said it all the time. And it's not about saying they're already there, because that's incoherent. It's not about that. It's about equipping hospitals with specific personnel to ensure a basic service catalogue. For example, if we have cardiology, neuro trauma, rehabilitation... by the way, if there's a problem incorporating allergy into some comarcal hospital, we can talk about it, but let's start by talking about it, if it seems like an aberration to have allergy in a comarcal hospital, why Sergas says they have it in the Marine Hospital. It's just that it's incompatible, to pretend to laugh at a parliamentarian who says that we have to make a catalogue of minimum services and that they say, "You're proposing allergy in comarcas." [[Murmurs.]] But if you say you already have it! But, well, they keep repeating, because they wrote it once, which we proposed yesterday — Monday — an incorporation of 1.13% — I think it's the number they invented. Well, it's more than twice, but, finally, it doesn't matter what we can say. If you don't mind letting me finish... [[Mr. Núñez Centeno utters words that are not perceived.]] And set the example of Teruel. Look, let's take Teruel's example, because, when there's a citizen perception that there's a loss of services, things happen like supporting parties that defend local localities or territories. From there, for example, it may be — I think it may be — that parties are born that claim an explicit defense of Teruel, for example. Because they understand they have no attention. And some citizens vote for them. Some reason you must have! And, yes, I agree that the Ministry says there are no specialists. Do you know what the last minister of the People's Party said? That there was no problem with doctors in Spain. And now you're complaining, it's that the Ministry gives us the reason, because it says there's 4,000 left. But it's just that Dolors Montserrat said, there's no need for doctors. There's already a discrepancy. So, since we have discrepancies, we defend that there are no two-speed public services. And if we defend this catalogue. Of course, with staff to make it stable. It's not about having pediatric neurosurgery in all hospitals, but about having cardiologists in all hospitals. And it is not military hand—to see if we are able to debate seriously. How do you cover the police, civilian guards, teachers? Are they subject to a Bolivarian system in Spain so they have to go to the comarcas? Are they subject? No, no, no, no. Why? Because they have some positive discrimination in terms of working conditions. They pay professionals well, they don't make 15-day contracts, they don't have to go to justice to see how their face looks saying they hire "fraudively." Because we hire fraudulently people don't want to go! And that's the problem, that we're submitting health to fraudulent recruitment! And so, for example, we can say that there's allergy in the Navy and come here laughing at someone proposing to do allergy in a comarcal hospital. You're just a pimpampum yourself! You have no idea what they're proposing! They're criticizing things that the board says it has just because we propose them. And that's called sectarianism. [[Applause]] And I go back to the beginning: when you work in sectarianism, you forget the reasons, and when you forget the reasons, things happen...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u141	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u142	...as it is said that public services "me, very, very" but in the end, when we have to bet on public services, we already know what happens in health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u143	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular, at the initiative of Da María Ángeles García Míguez and seven other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation and the fight against gender violence, as well as the demands to be made by the Central Government in this regard
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u144	There are amendments from the Joint Parliamentary Group, the Nationalist Block Galego and the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[(G. P. Mixto, at the initiative of Mrs Paula Vázquez Verao, through her own voice and in the light of Rule 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendments to this proposal no (10/PNP-004346) Amendment No. The following text must be added to the end of point 1: ", with schedule and budget plan for its development, promoting meetings with associations, experts and social agents involved in the fight against this Lacra to incorporate their approaches and experiences into the Plan."Amendment # At the end of point 2, the following text must be added: ", especially with regard to trafficking in women and girls, the main victims, increasing the funds of the Union for promotion of equality campaigns in the municipalities."Amendment # At the end of point 4, the following text must be added:" by transferring to Parliament, within a maximum of three months, a report on the number of tables set up and their degree of effectiveness."Amendment # 4. Add.You must add a point 6. with the following text:"6. To submit, within a maximum of 3 months, a specific report to the Galician Parliament on the development and execution of Goal 2.3 of the VII Plan of Equality between Women and Men (2015-2020) concerning the integral care of women and children victims of trafficking."Amendment # 5, add.You must add a point 7. with the following text:"7. Impulse specific training in the area of trafficking in persons for the purpose of sexual exploitation among all agents involved in their treatment and eradication (Justice, Forces and State Security Corps, Health...)."Amendment # 6 add.An 8 point must be added with the following text:"8. Create public shelter resources for victims of trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation."]] [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block (BNG), at the initiative of Mrs Olalla Rodil Fernández, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal (Doc. # 58344)Amendment of amendment Amend paragraph 1 of the resolution with the following wording: "1. To develop Galicia's first Strategic Plan against Trafficking for Sexual Exploitation After Update of the Report: Exploratory Study of Trafficking in Persons in Galicia 2013 and of the Protocol on Prevention, Research and Treatment of Women Victims of Sexual Exploitation (2012).The Plan should include, among other issues:- Action protocols which clearly define the actions and responsibilities of the various actors involved in the identification, care, support and support of women in situations of prostitution and trafficking.- Specific training directed to police forces as well as all personnel directly or indirectly working with women in situations of prostitution and dealing with sexual exploitation.- Include a temporary planning of actions and measures that integrate the plan; indicators and mediators that allow their monitoring as well as the verification of their degree of compliance. - Include a temporary schedule of actions and measures that integrate the plan; indicators and meters that allow monitoring as well as verification of their degree of compliance. - Budget.Addendum amendmentAdd in the actions addressed to the Galician Board as point 4a)]] the following text: "4 bis). Increase the number of aid to entities and organizations serving women in situations of prostitution and victims of trafficking for sexual exploitation by 2020."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u145	To formulate the proposal has the floor to Mrs. García Míguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u146	Good morning. Just to make it clear to you, Mrs Solla: yesterday, 86 years of the 19th November 1933 historic, the year in which we women in this country could have the right to vote. The Socialists opposed this right, the women's vote, and the Communist Party of Spain also opposed it. And what I was saying... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please, let me talk.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u147	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u148	And what the socialists and the Communist Party of Spain said at that time was that women are hysterical; with which, lessons of democracy to us, not one, lords. Not one. [[Applause]] The Galician Republican Federation — which I also imagine will meet you at the left-hand bench — proposed that universal suffrage and that the fact of women being able to vote would be allowed after menopause. So thanks I think it's none, and lessons in equality, to the People's Party, not one. [[Applause]] To begin with the subject of debate, which is a very important issue of whose approval in this House are pending many organizations and many specialists, I want to begin my intervention by making a thank you; a thank you to all people, to all the collectives, to all the entities working against trafficking, sexual exploitation and prostitution in our country, both in Galicia and the rest of Spain; to the Galician Network Against Trafficking and specifically to all entities like the Acque de la Coruña, the Amaranta de Ourense Foundation, Aliad Ultreia de Lugo, Association Faraxa de Vigo, Caritas Lugo, Caritas Ourense Alumar, Ecos do Sur da Coruña, Doctors do an important work within the clubs doing affective-sexual education—which seems to be done here nothing—and that are also entities that are subsidized through the Union of Galicia with over four hundred thousand euros. That's also important: knowing that they have the Government of Galician Unity in their hands. I continue because I don't want to leave anything behind: the Oblates of Ferrol, Amener, Oblates Santiago, Vagalume and sociologist Silvia Pérez Freire, who have transferred to us their wish for this initiative to be approved. I also especially thank Ana Míguez, at her moment President of Alecrin, one of those crazy "very stringed up", as Carmen Avendaño always says, the president of Ergue you. Ana Míguez walked through the streets of Vigo at night with a van helping women and fighting first-line prostitution at times when making visible the problem of prostitution was not well-seen and was not so fashionable at the social level. Nowadays much progress has been made, but it's not enough to end this fence and that's why we're here. And as a researcher at the University of Vigo told me yesterday, society is not mature enough to fight prostitution. We often carry out initiatives because they are social claims, demands from many groups that move politicians, public representatives. But in this case we are ahead, in this case we are going to advance the needs that society itself is showing, and we are the politicians that we are going to take one more step. He recognized this professional, this expert at the University of Vigo, who since the Government of the People's Party began pioneering measures in the fight against trafficking and sexual exploitation. Then I'll report a little more specifically what I mean by this. Since the year 2002, from Alecrin, they have made this reflection that I think is our responsibility to all of us. Mrs. Rodil, pay attention, that this is very important: "Woman or woman, only chance has prevented you and I from becoming sexual slaves and our body from being marketed or sold to the best bidder." [[Murmurs.]] I want to remind and send a rush from the Popular Group to the president of Faraxa, who, after exercising prostitution, as she herself reports and reports, has helped and fought both in clubs and on the floors and on the roads to give many women a chance to find a new life, and many of them have found that new life. She's a brave woman, recognized by all the Greeks and recognized by the Castelao medal in Galicia just two years ago. To the actress, writer and director of audiovisual media, Mabel Lozano, for visualizing and introducing human rights into a world that may seem so fragile and hypersexualized. Thank you very much, Mabel, for your work. [[Applause]] The Apramp Association, known for its work throughout the country and the Vagalme entity, as it does not! Rosario Carracedo Bullido, a lawyer, would know the Socialist Party well because his organization, the State Platform for Women's Organizations for the Abolition of Prostitution, of which he is responsible, is part of the Association of Progressive Women. You don't know her, Mrs. Blanco. Well, the truth is, it's worth meeting her because her approach is fundamental. [[Murmurs.]] Silvia Pérez Freire, professor at the University of Vigo, a very involved person, with a doctoral thesis awarded by the Government Delegation as the best doctoral thesis of the past year against macho violence. The thesis indicates some conclusions that I think are very close and that we should highlight. He's talking about normative sinks — from here our work — and he's talking about the lack of a clear position as a substantial part of the problem. We have a clear position, which tells us that we should focus on the victim's attention, with which future the Galician Union is committed. This is something that is being done and will continue to be done. This thesis also speaks of the prevention measures that must be carried out and of the need to discourage the demand for prostitution. We cannot, ladies and gentlemen, look elsewhere; we are here to try to solve social problems as important as prostitution, trafficking in persons and sexual violence. We must stop being part of the problem to be part of the solution. So, I encourage all groups to take a step forward, as the experts ask us, and as yesterday the foreign prosecutor himself said, who corroborated that there was a lack of legal action to address the problem of sexual slavery. And that's why we're here. If we talk about legislation, which is the basis for dealing with this reality that we have before us, I think there's a lot of progress but they're still very small. It was in 1997, with a law by Mr. Manuel Fraga, a People's Party law, when prostitution was first collected in a normative document in our autonomous community. Many years ago, but you took the step so important that you took that moment; a small but very important step. It was in the German law of family, childhood and adolescence where people gathered and sheltered the deterrence of begging, delinquency or prostitution in children and children in our country who were in a very complex situation. And it was in the Spanish Law of 2004 for equal opportunities between men and women, also approved by Mr. Manuel Fraga, where prostitution was collected for the first time in a normative document. It is very important to note that in 2007 in our Galician Law against gender-based violence are mentioned, in some specific section, within its article 3, in the forms of gender-based violence, sexual violence and sexual abuse. And there was a regulatory change in 2016 to include trafficking and sexual exploitation as a form of gender-based violence. That is not the case — as you well know — in the Organic Law of 2004 of comprehensive protection measures against gender-based violence; that is not the case, a legislative amendment has to be made. We're waiting for Mr. Sánchez to consider forming a government and stop just waving around and putting himself behind the banner. We are waiting for you to work where you have to do it: in the legislative reform that the State Pact so recommends. [[Applause]] Experts indicate that in Galicia we are innovative for different reasons to report to them: The VII Galician Strategic Plan for Equal Opportunities for Men and Women 2017-2020 contains specific measures for care, training, prevention and integration. There are agreements with different entities; there is, on a pioneer basis, the development and application of protocols and also a Greek reception network for all and each of the people who want to report. To finish, ladies and gentlemen, with the approval of this non-law proposal, we face the indifference of when we pass the roads and see clubs with bars in their windows. We don't know if it's to protect the house from what's on the outside or to water down the women and girls inside. With the approval of this non-law proposal, ladies and gentlemen, we can look into the eyes of all these women who are on the roads, on the edge of the outskirts of our cities, our people, semi-trailers... we'll be with them by hand...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u149	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u150	...with Brazilians, Africans, Eastern Europeans, transsexuals, Spanishs, wherever they are, they'll have the Government of Galicia next to them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u151	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, in spite of your progress, from the People's Parliamentary Group we want more; we want you to join us, we want units and we want you to have a high level of vision. Leave your partisan acronyms...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u153	Thank you very much, Mrs. García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u154	...on one side and let's go in the right direction against treatment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u155	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u156	...of prostitution and sexual exploitation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u157	Thank you very much. Thank you. [[Applause]] For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Verao has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u158	Well, I want to start with a comment. Review the Journal of Sessions of the Courts and you will see that the Socialists did not vote against the female vote; they voted in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u159	Mr. Vega, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u160	I begin by pointing out and appealing to what we have, sometimes, as a society; and is that our country has been vanguard in the recognition of trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation, against women and children, as a form of gender violence. This amendment quoted in 2016 specifically included in our law the trafficking of women and children for the purpose of sexual exploitation as a form of gender-based violence. Already the original wording of the law collected the trafficking of women and children for exploitation purposes, but it was specified more in 2016. We add to the thanks of all the associations and professionals who work directly with victims of trafficking. As for the causes, and since 94% of the victims are girls and women, it is obvious that there is a question of gender, a structural cause of machismo; but also other elements, present in the proposed institutional declaration that moved us on trafficking and that we agree, such as poverty, climate change or migration. But we have to go a little further, don't we? — and see what happened, historically, to this tremendous crime of trafficking in persons for the purpose of sexual exploitation. In a way, in history there has always been treatment for the purpose of sexual exploitation, but the dimensions of the phenomenon that make it into the slavery of the 21st century take place when the brutal deregulation of capitalism has taken place since the 1970s. This is a fact evident both by the consideration of human life and commodities as well as by the effects of the inequalities that the international trading system causes. So the territorial destruction of the poorest states, with the consequent migrations and the trafficking networks that form up against this deregulation, is one of the causes, for us, of the exponential increase in this crime. It is also clear that, with the fall of the Berlin Wall, the accelerated transitions from Eastern Europe to the service of European capitals promoted the conversion of that border previously called "steel of steel" into a chain of trafficking in persons for the purpose of sexual exploitation. This seems to us to be a rigorous historical explanation, it doesn't need to be a communist, nor is there anything wrong with it. The relationship between trafficking and sexual exploitation with the brutal deregulation of capitalism over the last few decades seems to be quite evident to us. Behind the trafficking -- the proponent also said -- there are stories of stolen childhood, traumas of life, true stories of terror. We would support this initiative — if we did so — even if our amendments were not taken into account. It is important to draw up this German plan to combat trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation, but also recalling that there was a case here that the People's Party and the Beijóo himself considered that he did not have much concern about it, in which the leader of Youth Farmers was head of a plot of trafficking in women for the purpose of sexual exploitation. It's necessary that awareness leads to all the phenomena that occur. Our amendments have nothing to do with prostitution. In his own initiative, in writing nothing speaks of prostitution. We could open that debate, and we considered it important. In fact, in the past legislation there was a very interesting debate about prostitution, which we will rescue, and there were agreements in that sense. But our amendments are essentially going to put deadlines for this strategic plan and to raise funds for it; to increase these funds — amount to redundancy — with specific campaigns in the municipality; to make a report on the number of interinstitutional coordination tables, which we are very late. And I say, we would support this initiative regardless of the tone it had later had in its reply, because it must be remembered that in this plenary we are in agreement, but the tone of the People's Party's initiatives was to compare Podemos with Vox; accuse the BNG of not condemning terrorism; the whole opposition to giving it to the right; we in a debate accused us — as opposed to the law of RedMadre — of not wanting disabled and vulnerable women to have children. So, if we appeal to consensus, you don't move from it. And precisely...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u161	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u162	...to deal with it for the purpose of sexual exploitation, which particularly affects foreign women, neo-machist speeches and racists even more vulnerable.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u163	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez Verao. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u164	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. The acronyms of my organization take them with me all the time. I think it would be an absolute hypocrisy that we have renounced what our political projects represent and our ideologies represent, and I think I've said it on other occasions. I'm sorry if what we're asking is the very existence of those political projects and those ideas, of which we should be proud, of which you represent, and I at least of mine. [[Applause]] We add absolutely to the gratitude of the entities working in this country, from many and many areas, in aid, support, support and intervention with women in situations of prostitution or women in situations of trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation. But what entities need most is economic resources, material resources, human resources and, above all, training to meet a complex, polyedral reality, crossed by multiple variables, and that I think you can't just vent in a simple gratitude. This was about the debate that took place in the previous legislation. This is a matter which has already been raised — not going much further — by the sixth, where there was an agreement at that time by the Equality Commission to adopt certain political and regulatory decisions that would allow us to intervene on that reality — I insist — as complex as that of prostitution and that of women in situations of trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation. We agree that you have to act and intervene in the public administration, and all the agents who compose it, to end this reality. We're going to focus on what we're talking about on this initiative, which has to do with trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation, but above all for it to end up being an accomplice as it has been many times. I come from Lugo, Lugo is crossed by a reality as was the case of Carioca, in which an absolutely corrupt and complicit network, for example, by state forces and security bodies that were absolutely connected to those sexual exploitation networks, and which still remains in the trials and has not been resolved entirely. That's why it's important to form, so it's important to have resources, so it's important to have clear rules. I don't agree there was a normative shuttle. By the year 2007, it was not considered as a form of male violence to deal with for the purpose of sexual exploitation, both women and children, and in fact, until today, there has been very little normative text, I say no law, that addressed this situation. It is true that there was — it was going to begin to explain our amendment — for example, an exploratory report-study of trafficking in people in Galicia in 2013, which was done with the Board of Galicia, financed from European funds, which made an initial approach to that reality so complex, so polyedral, crossed by so many variables, as is the deal in our country, and never again did anything from that study. One of the issues called for in the conclusions of this study, in 2013, is precisely that strategic plan of what we are talking about today. It is signed in 2010, for example, a protocol between the Galician Administration, the Galician Union, and the Prosecutor's Office that is renewed with regulatory changes that took place in the state framework in 2012. We propose, and we follow it with the hand held to reach an agreement, which is absolutely necessary for us to try to get as close to that reality as possible and to the reality that we have today, in 2019, in our country. We agree that this strategic plan is needed, but this plan has to include action protocols for all agents involved in this very complex reality, from the forces and bodies of security, people working abroad, even, for example, the entire health area, which is one of the most important spaces for the detection of situations of trafficking and sexual exploitation. I'm finished with a last question, which is the amendment of addition that we tabled and again focus on those aided entities and organizations that care for women in situations of prostitution and victims of trafficking. You were talking about the year 2019 being 450,000 euros. No, it was 449,997. And in 2018 it was 34.282 euros more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u165	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u166	Aid for these entities has been cut between 2018 and 2019. We want to increase these budgetary resources for this year 2020 because we need this: training, economic, material and human resources.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u167	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, you have the floor to Mrs. Pierres López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u168	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Miguez, it's important that when you talk about history you first know what you're talking about. The right to a female vote came out thanks to the vote of eighty socialist Members and Clara Campoamor's proposal. And we're not going to deny that some of the Liberals in this country also supported him. That's the story, be fair and not twist the story. And if you don't know, we recommend the reading of the book Socialist Feminism by Maria Cambrils, with a prologue by Clara Campoamor. [[Applause]] We welcome, in any case, the fact that you are interested in remembering today the anniversary of the female vote, and would also ask you to do the exercise of reminding you that today 40 years ago the death of the Franco dictator; a milestone that gave rise to Spain's entry into democracy, the most hopeful stage for this country. [[Applause]] In any case, let me start by making clear the clear and firm position of the Socialist Party in the struggle for the eradication of trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation, as well as the abolition of prostitution. And it surprises us that today we are defending this, it seems that with the same spirit on the part of all the groups and yesterday, in the face of one of the violence that is one of the causes under sexual trafficking, such as economic violence against women — I insist yesterday — the measures proposed were rejected and even vamulated by the Group of the People's Party. Absolutely incomprehensible, and not because this group says so, but incomprehensible, because the women who shared their stories with this group during those days didn't understand how the government group might not share the commitment to their drama. As it may be that at the request of articulating measures which are in the hands of this government, as it has done precisely with other collectives, it does not agree to contemplate them with them. For us, it's hard to explain, but I understand that's going to correspond to you. The Socialist Party, as a party — I repeat — is deeply feminist, deeply convinced of the need for an equal society, we do not want a society in which women are dominated, submitted, cosified and, of course, marketed. We want free women, free women, without being prostituted or exploited. So always, from the responsibilities of opposition and government, we've been working against the scourge of human trafficking. Thus, the last socialist government has approved the first comprehensive plan to fight against trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation of our democracy, addressing the problem in full, addressing it in its transnational dimension and putting the defence, support and recovery of the victims at the centre. In addition to this, it also approved in 2011 the first framework protocol for victims of trafficking, in which it laid down the necessary coordination among all actors in the fight against trafficking; in 2010 the reform of the Penal Code; and in 2011 the adoption of the Foreign Regulation; all steps to strengthen the instruments of struggle against trafficking in human beings. Since socialism we aspire to a society — as I said — without sexual exploitation, that is why we believe that it is necessary to change the social model, of domination and inequality, which makes it possible for prostitution, in order to reduce demand, awareness of society that buying prostitution services contributes to the establishment in our country of mafias that profit women, to whom they have kidnapped their rights. It is necessary to create a climate of social rejection and zero tolerance for sexual exploitation. This was stated in the report on the integration of women's human rights and the gender perspective of the United Nations Special Rapporteur on the human rights of victims of trafficking, Sigma Huda. Demand is one of the root causes of trafficking in human beings, and this must be one of the main objectives, reducing it from awareness. And that demand, Mr. Pazos, Mrs. Míguez, you don't know about party complaints. Remember that with you and Mr. Granados we know all Spaniards the existence of whore volcanoes, as well as with Mr. Jaume Matas and his team we know the interest of the PP Whaling Government for narrowing ties with Russia at the alterne Rasputin club. [[Murmurs.]] I insist, the demand and the use of prostitution must be reprobably reprobated.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u169	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u170	By the State Government they've already started...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u171	Silence! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u172	...in these months the work leading to the adoption of that comprehensive law against trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation and also prostitution. This future law will include appropriate mechanisms for the prevention and persecution of trafficking. It will avoid advertising services of sexual content and strengthen social protection services and programmes and comprehensive recovery of persons who have been exploited...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u173	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u174	...with special attention to minors. It's over. For this reason, for all that is already under way, and beyond the amendments we have tabled, which seek to clarify or add objectives already initiated or also provided for in the State Covenant, our group will support this initiative, on which we have firm convictions, without hindrance. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Joint Left Group, Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u176	Thank you, President. Honestly, lessons of democracy of the People's Party, none, because you come here to talk about democracy and mention the Fraga...! The problem is that they haven't in any way broken their ties with frankness and these ties conquer, today, on the pacts with Vox's extreme right... [[Murmurs.]] [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u177	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u178	...because they don't understand democracy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u179	Quiet. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u180	...they want us to get women, communists, independentists, migrants, socialists, all those who understand that they're not like you, all those. That's their way of understanding democracy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u181	Quiet. I'm already trying to put order, but it's complicated. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u182	They get very nervous, but honestly...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u183	Peace, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u184	...before we start talking about this, we have to talk about the unfortunate speech that we had to listen to today by President Feijóo, because it was regrettable. The truth is to try to appropriate the voice of most Greek women... is a totally machist comment that should correct — they have the opportunity now to come to this rostrum. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u185	Quiet. Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u186	Of course, macho violence is a political problem! Of course it's a political problem! What I don't understand is how they want to take away the importance of the feminist emergency we live. Not a partisan, politician. [[Murmurs.]] Sometimes they have difficulty understanding concepts. Of course it's a political problem! And women have been putting it right in the center of the political sphere for a long time. But what are we going to expect from this government, when they don't even talk about topics that specifically affect women can name us? The same government that has to extend the application of inclusive language! Man, of course, it's hard to believe they're going to do it when we have these representatives who to talk about women name them all, and it wasn't once or two, nor only today. Today we were clear about his hypocrisy when we heard his intervention, because, after he was all day yesterday denying his agreements with Vox, Mr. Pazos finally acknowledged that yes, that there are agreements with Vox to make us move forward in Andalusia against corruption. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Just going to the subject that concerns us and its tremendous inconsisteence, and just to give you two examples. In the case of Carioca, which has already been mentioned, why didn't they act as a particular charge? Why are they looking the other way in the Carioca case? Oh, surprise! it turns out that all cases aren't similar. Or why did Mr. Feijóo wish Mr. Miramontes luck, accused of financing a network of exploitation of women, of trafficking in women? It's the same People's Party that in this same gallery, when we came to ask him... I would ask for a little silence, because, if I were on the other side, there would already be three calls to order. [[Murmurs.]] Since I've been intervening...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u187	Peace, silence. No, he accused Mr. Miramontes. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u188	When you have your turn of words, you come here and you talk, because if you were on that side of the noise today on that side of the People's Party, there would already be five calls to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u189	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u190	But I accused the People's Party of that?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u191	No, no, no dialogue, no dialogue please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u192	I said they wish you luck to a person accused of dealing with women, and that's right there, it's public, in the media, I don't make it up. And we can also come here to read Mr. Counsellor's speech when we ask him about this.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u193	Mr. Paz, I call you by order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u194	All right, well, I'm glad because... And we have to say that despite the fact... and of course we want to welcome the work that many associations do, but the Administration is not doing enough on the subject of trafficking in women, which is nothing more than the slavery of women. Although there are many international mandates, many guidelines, not enough is being done. The figures for granting asylum, for example, are totally low, and we believe that until now there has been no real commitment from any government on this issue. And when we talk about trafficking in women, we also have to point out the double morals of the People's Party. The moral double of the People's Party is -- I repeat it -- to deal with people who are insulting, with people who are going against people only because they have another place of origin, with migrants. They're doing this systematically. And the concerts, the increasingly taller ballads, or looking to the other side with the deaths of the Mediterranean, that's also the double morale, and coming here to say they care about migrant women when then all the time they're making these other issues. And we have no problem in supporting this non-law proposal because, unlike you, if we believe that the non-law proposal can serve something, we will support it, the problem is that we have no kind of confidence that you will apply what you yourself approve, because — and only as a comment — are using this concrete date to whiteen the discourse you are taking and the measures that the People's Party makes. They use an initiative to whiten out everything they're doing, and, frankly, after seeing the whole thing, it became very clear that, frankly, no kind of commitment to equality, no kind of respect for women. There are offensive comments against many women in this country. Comments remain in this plenary session. In this plenary you've seen for the first time the real face of the People's Party. It makes them very nervous that they get the subject of Vox because, in fact, it makes what they really are visible. Just like they're nervous about frankness. It makes you nervous because you also really see what they are.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u195	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u196	That's the real problem.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u197	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Author group of the non-law proposal, Mrs. García Míguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u198	Good morning again. The summary is clear, bochurnous show. What we've just given the opposition groups right now is a booze show! We're not going to come here to give meats from good feminists or bad feminists, saying it's you who defend women's rights. [[Applause]] We are greatly surprised to have heard nothing of the biggest plot of corruption in this country, where members of the Government of the Socialist Party of Andalusia spent money on the public money of the unemployed, who both fill their mouths, in prostitution, drugs and alcohol. And we don't listen here at all to a single criticism. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] And if they voted that women could vote, it was dragged, but opposed to the debate considering it was not the right time, since women at that time were very influenced by the church and that wasn't good for the Republic, gentlemen...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u199	Quiet, please. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u200	Of course, Mrs. Quinteiro, who's coming here... the feminist emergency is that an escort from We can ask Mrs. Irene Montero to force her to take a lift, mechanics and family chauffeur. He said to Podemos' escort: "I was ordering to bring the dinner, the food to her, to Paul and to the dogs." [[Protests.]] With which I should make some reflection on what the feminist emergency is... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Maybe they don't know that in the case of Carioca the Board of Galicia has made custody of many judicial evidence and protection to many victims of pimps. The truth is, the summary of their interventions is very clear, and they have not met the needs we have in Galicia regarding trafficking and the victims of sexual exploitation. I think the Socialist Party has had a very important opportunity here to denounce, reject and condemn and seek forgiveness for society as a whole for the great plot of corruption its party is facing with the coalition of its government partners, Podemos and the Nationalist Block Galego. They become accomplices and lose all credibility to talk about equality and all the work to be done on gender-based violence. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u201	Thank you, Mrs. García Míguez. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u202	We proceed to the votes of the non-legislative motions. Close the doors, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Now I'll ask, I'll ask in the votes. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago asks for the floor.]] First I'll read... No, when they get here. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Is it related to that? But why is it? Why does the regulation require the floor? What's the matter? Give a voice to Mr. Pazos' chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u203	In order to ask for a question of order under Article 76.3 for the imprecisions expressed about an intervention of my own, Mr President, in which it was mentioned that I was referring to the possibility of prohibiting ideologies or questioning the contributions of democratic communism to the arrival of democracy in Spain. I want to reassure the person who made such statements. It's not true. We recognize the contributions of democratic communism. Today the president recognized them in his intervention. We simply alluded to the celebration of the Centenary of the Russian Revolution and the Resolution of September 19 of this same year of Parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u204	No, no, quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u205	...European, which I quote literally, maintains that Russia remains the biggest victim of communist totalitarianism...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u206	That's it, Mr. Paz, it's over. It's over, it's over. No, no. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] That's it, you don't have the word. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Paz, you no longer have the floor. We're in the vote. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] You don't have the word anymore. Mr. Paz, you don't hear him. You can't hear him. Mr. Paz, I don't want to call you back to order! [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, but I told him I was done. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's it, it's over. It's over. Time's up. I thought it was over. Thank you. Time is like this, it's over. Thank you, thank you. [[Laughter]] It's over. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] We begin by voting on the proposal from the Left Joint Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Ms Luca Chao. I have a note here, and forgive me because I may be confused with these things. You'll understand that this is confusing to anyone. I'm going to ask. I am here that the amendment of the Joint Parliamentary Group is not accepted and that the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group is accepted. So I haven't been so wrong yet. [[Assentment.]] We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. The Joint Left Group, at the initiative of Da Luca Chao Pérez and two other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Council of Galicia in connection with the introduction of affective-sexual education in education. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u207	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Gonzalo Trenor. Amendments are not accepted. Do you accept the point vote, Mr Trenor? No, no, no, no. [[Refusal.]] It does not accept a point of vote. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Gonzalo Trenor López and eight other Members, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government in connection with obtaining Community funds for the project of dredging and regeneration of the Burgo River, as well as the actions to be carried out for its execution. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 67; abstentions,4. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u208	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. Xosé Luís Bará Torres. There are no amendments, but the PSOE has asked for a point-by-point vote. Do you accept the point vote, Mr Bará? [[Refusal.]] No, no, no, no. Then we vote as you are. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the German Government and the demands to be made by the Central Government in the area of housing. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 38; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u209	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo. The House's services make me a compromise proposal, do you know all the groups? [[Assentment.]] [[Mr Rodríguez Rumbo asks for the floor.]] What do you want the word for? Do you accept a point vote? Which ones do you want to separate? Or point 1? [[Assentment.]] First of all, we vote on point number one. Vote for the transactioned text of point 1 of the G.P. Non-Law Proposition. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the situation and future of the shipyard of Barreras, of Vigo. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. This point number 1 is therefore approved unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u210	Let's vote now... how many points are there? I don't know how many there are. It's to say the second or the rest. Well, the rest. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, except point 1, at the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the situation and future of the yard of Barreras, of Vigo. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u211	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas. There's a transaction here that brings me here and they know. It also seems that the vote is accepted by points. So, first of all, it would be voting points 1, 2(e) and 2(g)... No, I'm sorry. I don't understand this letter. [[The President declared the name of the letter in Spanish.]] No, I'd say... well, then I repeat: point 1.1, point 2.e) point 2. of Galicia and sub-paragraph 4 within that paragraph. [[Laughter]] [[The president draws my letter in the air.]] Vote on the compromise text of points 1.1.2(e) 2.(g) and 2.(g)4 of the Proposal for a Non-Law of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government and the actions to be taken in relation to sexual violence. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u212	We now vote on the rest of the points. Voting of the compromised text of the Non-Legal Proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, except for points 1.1, 2(e) and 2(g) and 2(g)4, on the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government and the actions to be carried out in relation to sexual violence. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u213	We now vote for the Joint Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Luis Villares. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is accepted. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Mixto, at the initiative of Mr. Luis Villares Naveira and three other Members, on the demand that the Government of Greece make to the Central Government in relation to the sending of sporting representation to events organised in countries that deny women any of the rights recognized in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. This text is therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u214	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Julio Torrado. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia for the implementation of a catalogue of minimum hospital services in all hospitals in Galicia, as well as to avoid the loss of more professional and material resources. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u215	Finally, we voted for the People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Maria Ángeles García Míguez. I don't know if there's a deal, deal or accept the amendments. You'll say. Yes, give a voice to Mrs. García Míguez's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u216	We have reached a compromise on all groups and therefore I would like to thank all of you for your work to reach a unanimous agreement by Parliament on this subject against trafficking in sexual violence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u217	If it gets us to the transaction, perfect. Thank you. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Ángeles García Míguez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to trafficking in human beings for sexual exploitation and the fight against gender violence, as well as the demands to be made by the central government in this regard. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u218	Finished voting. Open the doors, please. We continue with point 5 of the agenda, of interpellations. Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and two other members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to poverty and social exclusion
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u219	Mrs. Blanco has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u220	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Welcome, Counselor. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the 20-N - we cannot from this obvious group - and we have 40 years of the dictator's death. But today is also the Day of the Rights of Children and Girls, Counselor. And we, since the PSdEG, in the wake of the resurgence of xenophobia and racism that we are living in our country, which in many cases refers to this new term coined by the RAE itself, "aporophobia", concerning the disrepair with the poor, we want to show our rejection of those extreme-right political forces that stigmatize and even criminalize unaccompanied minors. We would also like, Counselor, who today, taking advantage of this day and this attendance, had shown the rejection with which it has happened in some of these centers in the past few weeks. Today, as I also told you, we asked you about the state of poverty in Galicia. We recently know two reports that are alarming to us: the Caritas Foesa report and the one on the Welsh Network against poverty. These reports tell us that there are reputes of the AROPE rate, which rises one point over the previous year, and that there are currently in Galicia more people about the year 2008 who charge less than 300 euros a month; it is exactly thirty-four thousand more than in 2008. It also rises the number of people who are in severe exclusion, those who are going through the worst. And one thing that makes us aware and curious is that those people who are integrated, or are in such a weak way, or rather so precarious that the Caritas report itself alerts that these people, nearly 300 thousand Greeks and Greeks, in the face of any kind of economic crisis, could also fall at risk of poverty because of the lack of that social mattress that we have claimed and demanded on so many occasions. This is, in short, because of these precarious jobs, the instability of work on many occasions, which causes it not to be — as I told you — a very deep crisis so that all these people are added to the already one in five Greeks and Greeks who find themselves in that situation. Employment is one of the dimensions that most affects poverty to fall at risk of poverty or social exclusion. Having employment today is not a guarantee of being outside this collective, more than 40 percent of the Greek homes that are socially excluded have at least one person, one of their members incorporated into the labour market. Not only the job, it's also the housing. There are in our autonomous community five hundred and eleven thousand people living in situations of insecurity, with moisture, with smells, with succidents, and about three hundred and sixty people with disabilities living in a home with architectural barriers. But the problem is that we're not going the best, as the President of the Galician Union said today, who even claimed that social policies are the backbone of his government. We believe that this spinal column is gone, that we are going to cost below and without brakes, because, for example, there are today about the year 2013 excluding the housing one hundred percent more Greeks and Greeks according to the Caritas report itself; there is today in Galicia compared to 2013, we are not comparing to 2008, but to 2013, more people living in situations of insecurity, with architectural barriers, with serious deficiencies in the construction of their homes, in degraded surroundings or in conflict zones, or even in situations of stacking. We want to ask them what they're doing to reverse this situation, these very serious housing problems. The most extreme case of exclusion for housing is "senfogarism," says the INE survey on care centers and services to homeless people. The 2018 survey reveals that the average expenditure in these centres in Galicia is more than thirty percent below the state average. You launched a plan or published -- let's say -- a care plan for homeless people on the horizon of the year 2023, launched it or published it much later -- as it is usually customary -- than announced. There is currently no single dwelling in Galicia in the Housing First program, which is called Living First. Precisely because in order to bring these people out of the risk of poverty and social exclusion, priority should be given, before any other kind of intervention or action in the social environment, to offer a housing, contrary to what has been happening so far. In this program, a vanguard and pioneer, Galicia is at zero. But, of course, how are we going to be vanguards, how are we going to be pioneers if we don't even do the duties that contemplate the laws of our own autonomous community? And I refer to that development decree of the Law of Social Inclusion — Counselor, I see she smiles — which came with almost five years of delay. You smile but that has brought serious consequences to the Greeks and to the Greeks, administrative obstacles, problems of perception of this income of integration for people who resided in the same home, to reconcile that income with precarious jobs in the worst economic crisis we suffer. Discoordination between administrations, without you so far had given a single explanation of what was due that delay and had not even asked for forgiveness. And so long to finish with a risk that is not enough or worthy, which remains excessively bureaucratic, that does not guarantee perception with low wages, which remains of the lowest counties of all autonomous communities in Spain — the second lowest —. Besides, it's an income that's not reaching all the people who need it; there's a small volume of application for these minimum incomes, which are far below the state average — which I want to emphasize is already low — as reflected in the Ministry's own minimum income report of 2008. In the case of Galicia, it's only 7.2% of the population on the poverty line that's receiving these help. They place us practically at the queue — the tenths of all autonomous communities — four tenths below the state average and, in addition, a lot of distance from other autonomous communities like Navarre and Euskadi, where coverage reaches sixty-one and sixty-six percent of the worst people going through. And the number of risk-perceivers—despite that repeat of the AROPE rate that I told them at the beginning of my intervention, these alarming data we're seeing in recent months—is coming down. There are forty-seven municipalities in our autonomous community where no single risk has been requested. In 2018 there were five thousand eight hundred requests less; the year with fewer requests since 2013. And we want to ask him: do you think they're not asking because they don't need it, Counselor? On the contrary, from the Spanish Government, we have responded to this increase in the rate of poverty with more integration and more social justice. Since we arrived at the Government of Spain, we have put in place measures aimed at reducing that rate of precariousness, poverty, exclusion of the most vulnerable groups. I don't have time to report them all, which is a good sign: the rise of the minimum wage, the rise of pensions, that decent employment plan, and we're also taking steps to put in place a vital minimum income; one of the geared towards this goal is the improvement of childcare benefits in charge. These are measures on many occasions contemplated in those objectives that come on the 2030 Agenda itself. In short, Madam Counsellor: six years of crisis and four years of economic recovery have only as a result more social fragility in Galicia; there are more Greeks and Greeks — in spite of what the President of the Union says — on the weak edge in the face of the abyss of poverty. Because employment policies, housing, but especially the policies of the department that you are managing, that of Social Policy, have been at least ten years of service. It's been ten years since, as you're seeing with the results we're getting, they've ended up being bread for today and hungry for tomorrow. Madam Counsellor, in addition to answering — and I would like to repeat it again, finished as my intervention began — the questions that have been reflected in the initiative and those that I have raised during the intervention, we would really like to hear a clear rejection of these xenophobic and racist positions today, but above all that apophobia that we have seen in recent weeks by those who are already their government partners. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u221	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Reply by the Social Policy Advisor, Mrs. Fabiola García Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u222	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Blanco, good afternoon to all. It is true, Mrs. Blanco, that today we commemorate the World Day of the Rights of Children and thirty years of the Convention on Children. So today I had the great fortune and the great honour to share with more than 300 children in the administrative building of San Caetano, which is the central headquarters of the Government, but also the headquarters of all the Greeks and the Greeks, this very important day in which they are the protagonists. Any administration that wants to be really useful to citizens must always count on the necessary sensitivity and understand and deal with situations of need that some families live. The fight against social exclusion is one of the main priorities of this government, and that's why the Greeks and the Greeks now count on seventy-three percent more funds to combat poverty than a decade ago. We speak of a hundred and twenty million euros by 2020, and this — as I always say — does not mean that all problems are solved, because unfortunately today there are still many families living in dramatic situations. It doesn't mean we can keep our arms crossed either, because today we still need to keep working for the people who need it most. But I think it is necessary to have this fact as a starting point: funds for social inclusion have practically doubled since 2009. Reports such as that of Foesa — to which you refer in your question — fulfill the necessary role of keeping us always alert to work. But as you well know, Mrs. Blanco, when we talk about social inclusion, there are a wide range of indexes, a wide variety of statistics that need to be used very strictly and precisely to ensure that the image projected for society always corresponds to reality. For example, among the data from the National Institute of Statistics, in the Life Conditions Survey, "severe material deficiency" is the indicator that measures situations of most pressing need, which best correspond to those of the population that is understood to be poor people. If in 2016 4.1 percent of the population was in severe material shortage, in 2017 it was reduced to 2.4 percent, and in 2018 — the last year of data — it was reduced to 1.6 percent more. We are talking about the fact that the worst of the population in Greece has been reduced by 60 percent in what we have done with legislation. And also — to always put the data in context, as I said — compared to 1.6 percent of Galicians and Greeks who are in a situation of severe material shortage, the Spanish average is at 5.4 percent. The situation of economic stability and also of political stability enjoyed by Galicia directly benefits the people most in need. So let's hope that the turbulence of those who anticipate when we look at Madrid doesn't mean a worse change here in Galicia. I give you more data, Mrs. Blanco, in this case, from the Galego Institute of Statistics, from the last joint survey to homes, corresponding to the third quarter of this year: the number of homes with many difficulties to arrive at the end of the month has declined again to 5.2 percent; a drop of more than three points from the previous quarter, and the best result from the entire historical series. I repeat: this doesn't mean it's all done, but it does mean there's never been fewer families that go through it before to reach every thirty-month. We continue, Mrs Blanco: AROPE rate, based mainly on the ratio of economic poverty. This indicator — of which you have also spoken — is always to be taken with the necessary caution, because it consists mostly of the volume of people lying below sixty percent of the average income at the national level. This means that it harms the communities that have a cost of living less than the national average. For example, in Extremadura, a community governed by its party, the AROPE rate is 44.6 percent, but this doesn't mean 44.6 percent of the premieres don't have to eat. The AROPE rate in Galicia is quite far from these figures: in twenty-three percent. And it's a much better data than was recorded in 2008 — in a context of economic kindness of budgetary generosity — when the AROPE rate was above twenty-five percent. With twenty-three percent of 2018 registered in Galicia, we are also three points below the national average. I could continue to give him more figures and more data than they illustrate, fortunately, that more and less are the Galicians and Greeks who are going through the worst, but I would also like to leave time to refer to all that the Galician Union is doing to continue to reduce social exclusion rates. The number of beneficiaries of Galicia's social inclusion income is falling because, fortunately, fewer people need this help: 15 percent less than at the beginning of the legislation. Investment in Risk triples what the Socialist Party Group was doing, and by 2020 it will be in addition to sixty-four million euros. This year we passed a decree of enormous importance to improve the conditions of access to the Risk, and very especially to make it easier for its perceivers not to be a perception of life, but to find a job as soon as possible. And for that, two new steps were introduced: the insertion stage and the transition stage to employment. The insertion process, with a complement of about 200 euros for people who continue to be trained and who continue to do work practices. And the transition to employment, which allows people to find a job to continue to perceive a tiny portion of the risk that serves as a bridge for their necessary incorporation into the labour market. And these accounts are not unconditional, but, in order to access the two new stages of the Risk, the perceptive person must take on the commitments and his intention to get out of this situation. The latest data we have leads us to an optimistic content: more than one hundred and fifty people have accepted the conditions for access to the insertion process and about three hundred people are already progressively leaving the Risk to get to a job contract and earn a salary. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia is moving forward, and the people who need it most are benefiting from these advances, but of course we must continue to work always to bring social well-being to all the Greek homes, without exception. And that's why we'll always continue to work and we'll always work, in coordination, of course, with the rest of public administrations and also in collaboration and in permanent contact with the entire associative tissue, to continue to strengthen our network of protection and support for the people who need it most. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u223	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u224	Thank you very much, President. I don't know, Counselor, if you with that of the turbulences that come from Madrid refers to what happened the other day of the president of Vox de Madrid at a juvenile center in Seville calling them "manadas" for children and children. She's your partner, Counselor! I don't know if the turbulence refers to that, to their attitude, to calling these children helpless. I don't know if you're referring to these turbulences, which are the ones coming from Madrid, because we've made it clear -- and I repeat again -- that we completely reject this kind of behavior, and you have the opportunity to do it here today. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Counselor, it is very good that you today join with 300 and I peak—I don't know how many—children and children, but it would be much better if you were to protect with your attitudes, with the attitudes of your party, with the children and girls who most need it, putting a real health cord to those parties that foster and even attack and march those children. It would be so much better than the gesture you did today. Because with regard to these unaccompanied minors, I want to remind you today that the Government of Spain, for the first time, is going to give a break to the autonomous communities of EUR 40 million. Yes, Galicia is going to be four hundred twenty-six thousand euros. I'm saying this because the advisor is saying that we are very supportive, but he's going to do it with the money, with the government budget of Spain. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u225	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u226	By the way, autonomous community that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u227	...of course, as is logical, it receives less than the southern communities; that's logical. But also those of the north, Counselor; less than Cantabria, less than Navarre and less than Euskadi too. With regard to developments in the rest of the country, I am going to quote textually what the Foesa report says: "The negative evolution of exclusion indicators makes the current situation in Galicia, in comparison, somewhat less positive than that observed in Spain as a whole. In that sense, Galicia abstained from registering significantly lower rates of full and significantly higher integration of precarious integration, a model of social integration that is weaker than in Spain as a whole." You didn't say a single word, not a single word, talking about housing, even though it's a dimension of the dimensions that worries social entities the most. We also asked him about this. Let me give an example: this RehaVita Plan that you make available only to the municipalities of less than 10,000 inhabitants — when we all know that there is a tremendous problem in the suburbs of the cities — with a budget split that has dropped to the two hundred thousand euros this year in which only nine new municipalities of our autonomous community and in which only thirty-four homes have been set in motion. As for the Home Care Plan — which I imagine leaves for the second shift — at that point in the strategy it is said that Galicia will actually start housing first. But it says "thirty" until 2023: they don't reach one per month in four years. And I'm going to tell you that Autonomous Communities already have this program vanguard and pioneer implemented, according to INE data: Andalusia, Aragon, Asturias, Balearic Islands, Canary Islands, Castile and León, Catalonia, Valencian Community, Madrid Community and Murcia Community. Some already have almost as many as you're going to do until 2023. In the matter of housing, I also asked Mrs. Pierres the other day how was the subject of public housing, and it turns out that the number of applications increased last year at the rate of two thousand five hundred. How many did you do to Galician Union in a year? Eight. They didn't even cover the demand for a single day and left the demand for the rest of the year empty. To consider a success that the risk budget is multiplied by three, indeed, a genuine insult, Counselor. Because, in fact, people who perceive it for being socially excluded or at risk of suffering increased, according to official data in the last ten years, by almost one hundred and fifty percent, Counsellor. How will the aid for social inclusion not be increased if there is a greater return to poverty? With regard to the transition from employment to employment — do not come here to assume — there were three hundred people who joined; an budget in two months of EUR 50 and four thousand, Counsellor. I don't think it's to come here to pull rockets with the first results that we have of that development decree, that law that arrived five years late. It's a failure, too, because Risga itself is not working. Only 16.1 % of those who came out of the Risk Preceptor List had another economic resource. In the face of its failures, in the face of the failure of the social policy of the Government of Galicia, of the Government of Mr Feijóo, to overcome this fragility of social integration — not only do we say so, who are saying and recognizing themselves — in the next plenary session we will come up with proposals from the PSdG to put in place a real strategy of fighting against poverty...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u228	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u229	...and social exclusion. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u230	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Close the gap, social policy advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u231	Thank you, President. Mrs. Blanco, as I pointed out in my first intervention, we'll continue working from the German Government as long as there's only one person in Galicia who's going through it. [[Applause]] But yet, more and more data makes us more optimistic. I remind you now: we are Spain's second autonomous community with less population in a situation of severe material shortage, the number of homes with many difficulties to reach the end of the month dropped to 5.2%, the best result of the entire historical series of the Galego Institute of Statistics, the AROPE rate of Galicia was 23%, a figure better than 25.1% that was registered ten years ago. You're also talking about child poverty. That there are families with children and children without the necessary income to live is something that, of course, concerns all of us; and we work, of course, to respond to all these situations. A body as authorized to speak about childhood as is Unicef — which you also know — says that we are the sixth autonomous community with fewer children, children and adolescents at risk of poverty and social exclusion. But despite this, there are still families in Galicia that have great needs; that is why, Mrs. Blanco, to me, the truth is that I am quite indigested that the Central Government would cut us precisely this year four hundred thousand euros of funds for the fight against child poverty. Yes, Mrs. Blanco, your socialist government! Four hundred thousand euros! Yes, he cut us off from the fight against child poverty. [[Murmurs.]] The Central Government therefore knocks us out; it doesn't give us, it does. And therefore, Mrs. Blanco, the German Government does not forget or will never forget the homeless, whose needs are absolutely urgent and also priority needs. As you know, this year we approved the first Homeless Persons Care Plan in Galicia, which is focused mainly on securing a roof from which they can start their reintegration process. Mrs. Blanco, the housing first is not a program; the housing first is a perspective from which the Galician Union is acting. And therefore, among the main measures of this plan is the provision of a hundred dwellings serving as a starting point for their social support, and multiplying by four the number of public squares in social inclusion centres. You say no, but the first eleven squares are already enabled in the center that Father Rubinos has in the city of Coruña. And in the coming years we will, of course, continue to move forward in this line. [[Applause]] In order for the efforts of the Galician Union on inclusion to effectively reach the people who need it — that is, for the hundred and twenty million euros that we invest in 2020 to multiply its value — the involvement of all the social entities in Galicia — which we are always grateful for their work — is essential, and the involvement of the municipalities is always needed. That's why this Homeless People's Care Plan was designed by the hands of Galician social entities and municipalities and I always thank them for their full involvement and willingness. That is why in 2020 we will double investment in social inclusion aid for the municipalities and launch, too, a record call to social entities. And in the same way, Mrs Blanco, today too — although we face some aspects — I would like to thank the Socialist Group for the resolution we adopted during the debate on the State of Autonomy for updating the Single Social Agenda. Because it was through that very consensus that we managed to trace the roadmap that led us to the social inclusion data that I referred to in my first intervention. And it will also be — I think — through that consensus that we will always continue to fight inequality over the next decade. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u232	Thank you, Counselor. Da Carmen Santos Queiruga and four other members of the G.P. Group of the Left, on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to the situation of the judges of violence against women
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u233	Mrs. Santos has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u234	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Rueda, we've been talking about budgets for three days and we've been talking about three days, in particular the last two days, about the situation of women in our country and about the situation of violence and all the cases arising from all the proposals and all the measures that must be taken and about the legal commitments that we have to take that which we are actually committed — beyond the bonds and minutes of silence — to fight against male violence and against inequality. Of course, I say with regret that I believe that many of the members of this House have not been up to this debate, since they have made statements, attacks and distortions about such serious issues that they should certainly be ashamed of us as Members and Members. But I'm not going into this; for me this debate is very serious; I'm not going into the noise and lack of respect for the victims and women, talking about things here that nothing has to do with the issues that we have to deal with. He agrees that we are bringing these initiatives here today, even though we are not limited to presenting these initiatives and questions on the eve of November 25th or March 8th — despite the fact that these are fundamental dates for claiming and centralizing the problems of women and the inequalities and the ill-treatment we suffer. But yesterday you, Mr. Rueda, had an appearance in this direction too and explained a number of existing and other measures that you want to implement as part of the development of the Covenant against Machist Violence; some measures that we consider as necessary as fair, but that always need to be accompanied by sufficient resources. And so we always try to increase budget splits so that we can fight against masculine violence and inequality. That's why my partner yesterday explained very well, despite the accusations of the spokeswoman of her group, how she worked all over and deeply in the work of the State Covenant against Violence Machist. Knowing precisely these works and the depth of these works, we abstain, because, as you will know, to implement the state pact and the measures proposed there, to those who were committed, there are no resources. And you yourself have quoted something about the exclusive judges in macho violence, which cannot be carried out. And that's why we're going to keep insisting on it: that pacts without resources cannot be carried out. We regret that you have expressed precisely that lack of resources; because since your group — you and Mr Feijóo — demand, and we agree, the seven hundred million that Galicia owes to the Government of the State. But we do not want them to claim the resources they have to provide for that State Covenant in order to carry it out, and the measures they have committed to that State Covenant are being put in place. In fact, that's where it's collected that it has to interfere with the judiciary. And this Judiciary had already announced since July and studied how to extend the judges of gender violence; because it is not just a question of Galicia, but of the whole state, because there are thirty cities that have no specific rooms for crimes and assaults against women. So, for us, it is clear that this must be the case; two years after the State Covenant was adopted, a report was commissioned to determine, depending on the burden of work, how many judges of the criminal most should assume these powers in each capital according to this Council's note. The president of the Observatory against Domestic Violence and Gender has made the content of this report manifest. And also the need for specialists to judge sexual assaults and that it is a change that needs to be made and that the main judicial authorities ask for it on macho violence, including the president of this observatory himself, after the sound discrepancies that existed in the various courts, for example in cases such as Manada's, that in the first sentence — as you know — was considered a "sexual abuse." This did not change until the Supreme woke up, three years later, that it was a "aggression" with a young girl, who was raped in group by five men in a clearly intimidating environment. That's why the existence of specific judges is fundamental. What's the situation in Galicia? At present there are forty-five judicial bodies with competences in violence against women and on women, in all the judicial parties of Galicia, of which only two have exclusive competence, as you know: the Coruña and Vigo. The rest have shared it with other instructional functions; in cities they are mixed, instructional and instance in villages. Our political position is clear: we call for the specialization of judicial bodies — beyond the data that indicate the need for a greater dedication of existing ones — where the workload, according to the parameters of the General Council of the Judiciary itself, is significantly more than 100% structurally. And we don't just say it ourselves: in Galicia we're going wrong; we're going bad despite the claims that exist in the street, in associations and on the part of women. The Dean's own compostal judge who took possession of his office a few months ago — Mr. Andrés Lago Louro — said that Santiago needed an exclusive trial of gender-based violence involving Padrón and Ribeira, and explained that it was absolutely necessary to have him. Textual quote in an interview in La Voz de Galicia: "If we give him the importance to give him, he said, because it is very important, it cannot be that today a court of instruction must, apart from all other crimes, bring gender violence. It is not viable, not at least in Santiago, beyond statistical data, because justice is not a statistical data, it is an end that it is only to improve society and that the citizen receives an adequate response, and in a court like mine it is very difficult to do so, with all the other causes on top." He explained that for this reason he proposed to create in Santiago an exclusive trial of gender-based violence, just like that of the Crown and that of Vigo, which you know all the collapsing and all the problematic that has been with the substitute judges and which must be the trend, and there are no possible excuses. That's why we asked you, Mr. Rueda: Has the Council of Galicia dealt with the demand to the central government to increase the courts of violence against women? When, in what terms, what was the answer? Just as the 700 million claims, did they claim this? Then, beyond the facilities and the exclusive courts, in those judges who are not exclusive, there are other specific aspects that we also want to point out, and where in Galicia we go very badly, which are the situation of the judicial facilities. He knows that we are presenting initiatives and asking questions in these areas on repeated occasions, not today. The judges know that they are places where fundamental moments occur in the process of reaction to the victims of the violence of both the women and the minor children. This is where the complaint is made; on many occasions, it is where judicial ratification is made; the obtaining of relevant information from declaring persons in any procedural condition; the investigation of the fact; the exploration of the victim; the development of the process with the projection of all institutional guarantees; the material realization of the rights of the victim or the victims; therefore, it is necessary to give full attention to the judicial spaces, so that they are true spaces of security, trust and protection for the victims and if they can recognize and exercise their rights. Inaccurate facilities you know they cause very significant adverse effects on the criminal and social proceedings, and you can also produce double violence against victims. First, the fortunate encounter, though predictable, between the victim and the aggressor or the aggressors in the judicial facilities, in the hall, in the entrance, on the stairs, causes fear, panic, feeling of coercion, which the Administration has to avoid. That they compete at the same time in space and in the same room, the victims and the aggressors are something that you have to take into account the Administration to put the physical and architectural means in order that this doesn't happen. There can't be a double situation of violence against victims; it's a situation that also determines a second victimization of women and minors and unnecessary suffering. And in this, Mr. Rueda, you know we're going very bad. We don't have any sad biombos today in the judicial facilities to be able to deal with this double violence and these situations that can't be brought to trial by the victims and the aggressors. It is obliged that there is a part of the facilities of each judicial building which ensures the safe and unmixed transfer of victims, aggressors and the rest of the people who are there at those facilities; that waiting rooms and judicial facilities are conditioned; that there are even videoconferencing system reporting rooms that allow the interaction with the room where the complaint is made without the need for direct visual confrontation. Can you imagine how you can feel? You were talking yesterday about the last victims, who in many cases had a previous complaint and were killed in terrible, horrifying murders. How can the victims feel with their assailant next door, maintaining a visual contact or hitting them through a corridor? Imagine the horror that can be? That's why we asked you, have you taken any measures to join Galicia to improve the conditions for the protection of victims in the judicial units and what are they? Because the constancy we have is that we're going very bad. And finally, there is also the staff of the complementary services of the Immelga. You know that on countless occasions the situation of the eventuality of this specific support staff, which changes permanently, every six months are changing, that gives psychological care and emotional support to the victims and that they cannot continue their work because this temporality, this eventuality, prevents it, and is something of a pure common sense. And the last question, did the Government of Galicia take any measures to improve the working and training conditions of the staff of the women's violent judges, to increase staff and to the Immelga?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u235	Thank you, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u236	Thank you very much, and we're still in the replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u237	Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u238	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, you used to say at first — but I think you did, I thank you very much — that you wanted to make a constructive intervention, and, therefore, with regard to women victims, it seems very good to me, and I think I have to do what is my duty and what you ask me to do. He asks a series of specific questions in his inquiry, and between this turn — if I'm able — and the next one I'll try to answer to everyone. Of course, it's a relevant matter that you bring here today, without any doubt, the attention of the victims. Besides, it's an integral attention, since they're victims and they don't report it, and they're not even fully aware. We spoke yesterday in the audience to do everything possible to bring the complaint and break with that situation, and from there begins a path that for a long time has been very painful, which is already for the circumstances they suppose and for all that implies, but our obligation is to try to make it as easy as possible, to accompany them and to make their life as easy as possible from that moment on, and often give them a second chance. That also logically implies everything that has to do with — which I understand is the object of this interpellation — the phase related to judicial proceedings and the judicial field. So I'm going to try to answer, within the spirit that I said yesterday, in addition to the first year and a half of full implementation of the State Covenant and the resources that it implies, trying to listen and try to improve wherever it is necessary, without giving it more importance than what it has to correct and improve on the march. In this sense, I want to take this appearance and all that Parliament brings. Frankly, I'm telling you that I've heard some interesting things here and some things that I think you're not so clear, so I want to give you the data so that they're meridianly clear, or at least try. As for the first one, you ask me, with regard to the creation of gender-based violence judges, if we move Parliament's agreements and Galicia's concerns to the central government. Given the situation, in fact, there are two exclusive, other mixed, and then they are divided between the different judicial parties — the many judicial parties in Galicia — the competences in the remaining courts. It is true that there is an agreement here — you have read it literally — "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Council to request the Government of the State to increase the number of judges needed in the field of gender-based violence, in a manner consistent with the Joint Committee with the High Court of Justice". You know that every year... sorry, not every year, because for years we have not, we have claimed that it was always, that it had been given every year; there have been years that we have not been offered since the Ministry of Justice the possibility of creating new judicial units in Galicia. Whenever we were offered, all offered to us, we said yes. And we also said that if any autonomous community -- as it was -- was not willing to take that expense some year, that we would, of course, do it without any problems. But you also know that the system we follow is to agree with the highest representatives of the judiciary in Galicia, within the Joint Commission, those bodies that are most priority, within which there are many priorities. You said that justice -- the dean judge of Santiago and I also said so -- is not a statistical issue. It's a question of statistics too, to try to give the best service and the most efficient, but also of more things. Here we meet those who know the most about this issue, who are the representatives of the Joint Committee of the High Court, and we try to reach consensus on the needs. He said it because in Santiago you know that this year a social judge was created that was also very necessary. What are we doing and moving us to the Ministry of Justice? Of course, we need to improve the judicial units that deal with the violence of the macho in Galicia, but we want to take another step and that these units are comarcasized. We don't understand why today there has been resistance in the previous governments, and there is still in this, to comarcaly these judges, who would pay exclusive attention to the victims and allow, of course, to speed up all the proceedings that are carried out in these trials, and that we don't have to share, as is happening now, in other judicial units with matters that nothing has to do with. So we are what we say, that we allow comarcallization. What I can assure you is that, immediately, I am sure the representatives of the High Court themselves in the Joint Committee would put these bodies as priorities. We will therefore continue to insist that this comarcalyization be allowed. Because the argument that has been made so far, if it is that at some point it has been given, is that this would force women to have to make geographical displacement beyond their place of residence, but I think that sometimes they are very small displacements, you yourself cited Santiago's case to meet the entire area of influence, and with a small displacement, would serve for all these matters to be dealt with in an exclusive, specialized trial and, of course, much more effective and much more rapid. That's what we're moving about, and we don't understand why today it's not comarcaly. The new President of the High Court of Justice has made demonstrations saying that he agrees with this comarcalization, that he will do everything possible to get him to go ahead, and of course he will have all the support of the Galician Union. I was wondering, secondly, about the measures to improve the conditions for the protection of victims in the judicial units. I was saying we're really bad. Of course, it must be improved, but I think it's been quite, very advanced at this last time. I'll give you some data. You know we're on a big building legal infrastructure plan. These, of course, already carry the proper dependencies so they don't cross aggressors and victims — I agree that this is a terrible circumstance to be avoided — but our plan of minor works, which is sometimes not so much talked about because it's covered by large investments, is taking that very into account. In the same year, apart from works in the large buildings, in which they are being done and in which they are finished, actions — I say — have been made of separation, to have suitable facilities to ensure this separation, in the courts of Orders, Bande, The Boat, Verín, Cambados and Marín. We're also working in a waiting room in the Viveiro judges, who would also do this function. In total there were 14 performances this year. We want to do 12 next year and 12 the next year, and so we end this situation that is being done right now in all the judicial parties, where right now they're taking care of, until there's this comarcaalization, the issues related to the violence of the masculine. So I think you're doing a lot. You said there wasn't a sad biombo. No, no, there are works already done in many judicial units and they are going to be done in many more, and of course I can assure you that, whenever some sort of interim measure has been claimed as a biombo, it has never been missing, and the Council of Galicia immediately handed it over. But what needs to be done is these permanent works and, of course, that's what we're doing. So we've improved a lot. I can assure you that we are much better than other autonomous communities, and that in about a year and a half, we will try — two years at most — that these works are being done in all the judicial units of Galicia. There are other measures, in addition. There are organisational measures. You know that simply with a certain organization of the judicial organs these crosses can be avoided. Sometimes, simply - understanding that it is not the ideal - with this coordination, while not finishing these works, many times one avoids these kinds of situations, which I agree are terrible. Then we're also moving very, very quickly on the Justice Path Plan. More video conferencing systems are increasingly installed. They're already in all the judicial parties, but we're trying to install them into more judicial units, and that's going to allow many times there's no need for the victim's displacements and, therefore, that he can make the statement without having to physically go to the judicial body. We are also moving forward in the hall [...]. You know that this is a very important novelty, especially I'm talking about when you have to declare minors and, especially, when they are cases of male violence. We already have it in Ourense, we are riding it in Santiago and Lugo, and, of course, the new buildings in Pontevedra and Vigo will also take it. I think this is an important act. All of this — I have to say — with my own funds. I said yesterday, and I am once again expressing our non-conformity today, and we are going to continue to claim that in the State Covenant against Gender Violence if we are allowed to do works for this kind of facility. We're not asking to make brick for brick, as if we were told. They're fundamental works, you recognize them yourself. It's the object of this interrogation and it doesn't make any sense that, from now on in the central administration, I don't know who exactly, you're saying you don't see this type of investment as a priority or necessary and therefore you can't allocate money from the State Pact to make these infrastructures. I also wondered about other measures: psychological guard shifts, victim care offices... I'll try the second part of my intervention to answer none of your questions. The third, labor and training conditions of the staff working in the courts of violence against women. We are making a special impact on the specialized training of the staff of the Justice Administration, especially those working in these trials, in the specialists, of course, in the mixes and, in general, in all. In this year 2019 EGAP offered 277 squares for face-to-face training activities and 400 for teleformation. We have also just signed an agreement — EUR 40,000 — with the schools of lawyers and another with prosecutors — EUR 40,000 — to give them specialized training in order to relate, in their professional development, to victims of violence. In addition, as a result of the agreements that ended last year's strike, we have a pay supplement that is given exclusively to the workers of the judges who are dealing with gender-violent issues. Of course, what I can tell you is that, within the distribution of general resources, the material and personnel needs of the judges who attend to macho violence are always given priority. The evidence is that we now have 16 extensions of the day in these trials, which are about 50,000 euros a year. So I think you're doing a lot of things. I agree that there is a lot of way to go, but be sure that, within the attention of the victim, everything that has to do with attention within the judicial procedure, which depends on the Council of Galicia, we have to do it, we are doing it, and we continue to do more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u239	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u240	Thank you very much, Mr. Rueda. I also want to thank him for the seriousness and tone in the answer, because I think in three days he was playing, he was playing. There are several questions you've answered in which I believe we have to do some punctualizations. First of all, thank you for recognizing the reasons why we were unable to vote in favour of the State Covenant; for a state pact without resources, in macho violence, is wet paper. It's good that you recognize it, it's fine, because that's the reality, and the deep work in that state pact is what they showed. You yourself are acknowledging that Galician judges, above all specific ones, are victims of this lack of State Covenant budgets against Machist violence. You say you're critical of the state government. We too, in matters where we have to be and in priority issues. But we do not see — I repeat — that they insist on requests, beyond you do not understand why the Executive and the Prosecutor's Office are not concerned about providing this budget allocation; that they condemn it as the deficit of the 700 million that Galicia owes us. We would like the same consistency, especially when there is so much agreement in the Joint Committee, specific judges and bodies that are about to give the debate, to explain the situations we have and the importance of having these specific judgments, which we are wrong in Galicia. You know, from previous interventions in our group, that we are in favour of comarcaalization, with which, nothing to add, we agree. Look, there are things we can agree on! We're also betting on comarcalization. Yes, all the small improvements that may have existed — as in so many cases — do not justify that the social demands of women that are seen on the streets every March 8, November 25, and every day are not being covered. As for the things that have actually been done, I'm going to quote a few, and I'm also going to point out to you deficits that are very serious and that must be taken into account, and I ask you to answer because — just like the staff of the Immelga, who has not answered what you think and what they will do about the temporality of the staff of the Immelga — precisely the psychosocial services of the Immelga have on numerous occasions denounced certain issues such as, for example, that there is only one specific report room for minors in Ourense, not specifically welcomed for cases of violence, but used for that. And we should move forward in that multifunctionality in the rest of the cities and villages. The specific children's room in Pontevedra -- he talked about the works, and in this case there's a new building being finished -- he knows it's equipped with toys and educational resources approached by the employees, by the workers, to create a climate of rest for the minor, not by the Administration; it's a personal initiative of the workers who are there. In Pontevedra, unfortunately, the works did not consult with the psychosocial services of the Imelga for the performance of that infrastructure, with which for us, for our group, it is not well done. Experts need to be consulted so that things are done as best as possible in caring for the victims. But we do not lose hope that the regulations, Mr. Rueda, will be observed. Ferrol. Complaints about installations are generalized where male violence is referred, in the waiting places — the common ones — to victims, aggressors and witnesses — which you know perfectly well that it is. And as legal operators report, in cities where there are separate physical units — which you named — security measures related to regulations are not always complied with; for example, the victim's waiting room in the Lugo Instruction No. 3, between archives and files. Then, in the town trials, complaints are even more widespread because of the insufficient infrastructure supply, although many of them were built or reformed in the middle of the 1990s ahead and at the time of approval of the security block regulations. But that's no excuse or the exigencies of your compliance. I'll take the case of the biombos. Is it true that there are some courtrooms and courtrooms, as in the Coruña, where there are biombos; but, do you know what happens, Mr. Rueda? That a microphone is requested and the cable isn't enough. You ask for a wireless micro and you say you can't bring it in because there's no money to buy batteries, and eventually you have to buy them too. Do you think this is normal? You think it's normal? And it's not a case, it's usual. So these are powers of the Galician Union; this is not a question of the State Government; it's not a question of what you might be profiled with. That is why we, year after year — and this year too — have increased the demand for resources for fighting, preventing and protecting violence against its victims. And you know that here we approve issues together, like when we approve the demand, at least, of exclusive judges of gender-based violence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u241	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u242	...—end—in five cities where they don't exist. That exclusivity — I repeat — was also requested when one hundred percent of the workload was exceeded. And with regard to calling for support judges for gender-based violence in the Vigo and La Coruña halls to unravel, he has reached agreements, but they lack the contonence, Mr. Rueda, they lack the contonence. And the things you're dealing with, in the direct protection of those already existing rooms, here in Galicia are not meeting expectations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u243	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u244	...and the needs of women and victims of male violence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u245	Thank you, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u246	I'm sorry to tell you, but that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u247	Thank you. Close the question, Mr Vice-President and President-in-Office, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u248	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Santos, I suppose it was very difficult, in the end, to agree and you recognized that the situation has little to do with what there was not too long and even with what there are in many other places. I understand your attempt, but don't put words or interpretations in my mouth that I didn't say. I have not come here to recognize that the State Pact... — we are very grateful, we have always said — designed by a government of Mariano Rajoy and transferred the charges by a socialist government, with Pedro Sánchez as president. It was necessary, and we all agreed less than you, that they didn't vote in favour. He set out and came up with a lot of resources, which were very necessary and which had not existed before. Therefore, the Government of Galicia — I have said it every time I had occasion — we believe it was an important step forward, although we believe there are things to improve logically. I'm telling you, it doesn't make any sense that they don't let this kind of work so necessary; other things too, but today we're talking about the works in the courts to ensure the greatest security and privacy of the victims. They say not absurdly, they say not without any explanation, and we keep saying that that doesn't make much sense. But I don't mean, at least, that it's a failure because they didn't come money -- they could come a lot more, we would agree -- but I think the situation is very different before the pact or now. So you may have an opinion, but I have another quite different in that sense; me and the Government of Galician Union. And then something else. I don't think it's good to make an anecdotal the general rule and say that everything is a disaster because there are no batteries. Look, there's been some very important breakthroughs in new technologies as well. I don't doubt that what you tell me is a specific case, but don't tell me that nothing works in the courts because there's no money for batteries. I think the people who work there recognize that there are a lot of things that can be improved, but generally, the improvement is very important, and much more in new technologies. So I don't think it's a good tactic to make a timely situation -- I don't want to call it anecdotal -- the general rule to say that nothing works, because I give you a list, I think it's quite long, of actions that have been done. I could do what other autonomous communities are doing, where you rule, by the way, in the coalition and where you are saying that, while the State Covenant does not allow you to do works in the courts to separate victims from aggressors, nothing will be done. We do what we do is demand that this change, and in the meantime, do it with our own funds. So I think it's a little unfair that you say it's all a disaster for this kind of anecdote. The court building in Pontevedra is about to open, we wait for the first occupation license, it still doesn't work. So I didn't quite understand what you told me about consulting the Imelga. By the way, on the question of the Immelga, all the staff of the Immelga are in the relationship of jobs; psychologists are already incorporated into the RPT — in the relationship of jobs —. I asked for the data when you told me because I was very surprised, nothing happens, but you don't have the data right. Social workers, who are of the latest incorporation, are also in the RPT. It is true that there are two places — namely Ferrol and Lugo — where they could not be covered in a stable way because there were no volunteers in the workbags. But, let's go!, temporality, once they're in the job relationship, it decays by itself. So I'd tell you to update that data to get a view of things as they are. Really, Mrs. Santos, we're making a very important effort. We have this very clear, now that we have these resources, so we would like to see more opportunities opened up so that we can invest them well within the State Pact. I think you can do important things now, and we, of course, will continue to do them. In the turn of psychological guards, 500,000 euros, are precisely for when a victim will report and will have to go through all the traumas that involve the development of the judicial procedure and even the physical stay in the buildings of the judges. I'm perfectly aware that this impresses everyone, and much more women in that situation, and I think it's a very important thing to have a psychology professional dealing with them. It's $500,000 a year that we're dedicated to that. Social workers, who advise them and advise them on all the resources they have at their disposal, who will be in the victim care offices, along with psychologists, who are in the PPT, and with the officials of the Justice Administration who pay the Galician board and who are also in those offices -- 14 professionals in the 7 offices that exist -- I think it's an important effort. Better, of course, but also important. And you're getting better — to finish my speech — and in a completely constructive spirit, I'd say, to be completely consistent, you should look at the amendments they tabled to the budgets. In the amendment to the whole of it, they take 100,000 euros to the general address because they invent revenue and transfer other shares; 892 million euros plus they put in. Do you know how much they spend on justice and, therefore, when they would devote to these measures that tell me it's urgent that the Council of Galicia take and that we're not taking because we don't put enough resources? Sky, Mrs. Santos. Sky! And in the amendments to the articulate—if the amendments to the whole of the world if these details were to be made—they are taken from the Directorate General of Justice 1.9 million, from which an important part has to do with heating, electricity and water consumption in the trials themselves; current and material expenditure, that material that you claim to me, is withdrawn. They also remove an important part of the works we're doing to modernize the buildings. And of the money that they take away from Justice, they don't devote a single euro to everything they're asking me for, they send us -- it's true -- to a German Plan of Historical Memory and to the promotion of Greek in the Administration of Justice, but to these works to serve the victims in the courts, they don't even dedicate a euro. So a little coherence here too, so that we all get along and move forward, it would be very important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u249	Thank you, Vice President. Da Maria de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and Da Luca Chao Pérez, from G.P. Left Joint Group on the Policy of Galician Union on the Care of Student Diversity in Teaching Centres
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u250	To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u251	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Counselor. Allow me first of all to express our heartfelt condolences. Having said this, and trying to have at the moment the maximum empathy — which you use repeatedly —... empathy is not only practiced, it is also learned. There are countries like Denmark in which children aged 6 to 16 have a weekly hour of empathy, and the results are splendid. You, Counselor, from my point of view, lead the most important Councillory of all the councils that a Government may have. Because there's a reality, and it's that, if all society goes through a common space, that space is school. And the school will be -- and this is today's theme -- an inclusive space, because exclusion only generates conflicts. So, you have a challenge, a huge challenge. It's a complex council, it's a board that demands a lot of responsibility. We believe that, if there is any challenge, some crucial element in any Government, this is the theme of inclusion. It's a matter of absolute priority. Attention to diversity is complex, as we have said, and you're supposed to be studying the framework of action of the new paradigm that marks UNESCO, of action 2030. What's the policy? I'm going to change the argument because it's been a long time and this explanation has been postponed, and I'm going to focus on six points: a political plan, because we're talking about education policy; a legal plan, because we're in a legislative chamber; a committee control plan, which has the obligation to report on compliance with UN agreements; comparison with other countries; that experts say; and what changes are needed. I'll reduce the questions to two or three, because some have already been answering them throughout their appearances. First of all, what is your policy? We know that you have a policy that is fundamentally oriented to mercantilism, they want to do business with everything. Concertation in Galicia is 30%. What do you say? That we have the most inclusive education in the state. And not only do you say so, does Mr. President Feijóo say so too. We have the most inclusive education in the state, and this is based on? We believe that using this sentence, this propaganda slogan, has an unfounded real purpose. Why do we question this statement? First because law enforcement is not an option, it is an obligation. Second, what empirical methods of research have they used to make such a statement? Are your arguments — as your predecessor said — the Pisa 2015 report? He's in question. His argument is that 90% of students are educated in ordinary schools. Look, just assigning students to regular centers does not guarantee inclusion. What guarantees inclusion is the genuine participation of these children, on equal terms with children without disabilities, in all aspects of the school system. This doesn't happen in our community. And fewer are left empty of meaning and they eliminate means, as the families of many centres in Galicia claim. Besides, they don't meet the demands that all unions unanimously request. Have empathy, talk to the unions, talk to the representatives, talk to the families, please. Because asking for 18 hours of secondary school and 21 hours of primary school isn't a whim, it's also directly related to attention to diversity. Time is needed, and the guidance departments need equipment to work. And the teams are designed to have people from scientific areas, from the field of training and guidance, also from linguistic areas, but they're not really working that way. If we have the highest level of inclusion across the state, one of two: or very bad are the other communities, or it doesn't fit the demands. With regard to this, Counsellor, you know better than anyone in this House, but we must all know that inclusion is not a political option, it is a political and legal obligation. Why do I say that? Because we have a frame. The first rank of laws is the Constitution, right? The second at the level of education, with regard to diversity, marks the UN convention, the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. In the legal rank, it is to be respected, both by the state and by the autonomous communities. We have that obligation; it's not an option; it's an obligation; we know it very well. And they're rights. That is why we say that we have a decree — very well — and we have protocols — not so well, but that is the subject of another interpellation. With regard to the law, this legal framework, Decree 229/2011 of 7 December, has nine articles, and the first one has to be changed, is obsolete. Why? Because it is collected there that inclusiveness and equity are principles. And what does the second hierarchical law say? They're not principles, ladies and gentlemen, they're rights. And if we talk about rights, this is very serious and binding, it's overwhelming. Even though this convention has been signed since 2008, it's been eleven years and there's a lot to do. So, please don't be so triumphalist, you don't boast so much of something you have to do, which is to fulfill inclusion, and act and modify the necessary articles, because even if you're subscribed to and vigilant, even though you're part of our legislation, you have to gradually convert centers, for example, of special education. Slowly, not from night to morning, but we've been eleven years and this doesn't change. With regard to the committee which studies compliance with persons with disabilities, he made a very harsh, terrifying report. At the general level, Spain is one of the countries that explicitly suspends, so that Galicia is the best in the rest of the communities has a very relative value. They're talking from this committee, and this committee has a very serious impact, it's not ballad. He's talking about a clinical model, and by the way, the last high-capacity protocol goes through that clinical model, Counsellor, and this goes against the UN guidelines. He speaks of approach and failure to comply with human rights. He's talking about serious violations, systematic violations, the right to inclusion. I don't make anything up, just read the documents and break the laws. He speaks of limited progress, he speaks of lack of training and training. Compared to other countries, it must be said that even Italy was a pioneer, England, Belgium, Sweden, Denmark. I could double-check how the Danish system works. Denmark, which has 5 million inhabitants — which could be very similar to Galicia — has a system in which children with special educational needs — exceptionally — are segregated — are all included, even in the United States. There's a lot of international comparative data: no one should be parked. We say there are also analyses and valuations. I recommend that you read the report by Marta Medina, who talks about centers, management structures, professors and care measures. It's revealing and bright. We say we need to make necessary changes. I number six very quickly and I leave the questions to you to give the answers you want, and then we keep talking. Reasonable adjustment. German observatory. We've transferred our powers. Change the decree to fit into the UN's considerations. Perform the transformation process. To really advance, don't be so triumphalist and seek improvement. Advance to inclusion. Remove...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u252	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u253	...—end—the territorial differences and, of course, include families and students in decision-making. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u254	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Response from the Education, University and Vocational Training Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u255	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Mrs. Cuña, for your condolences. That was the reason for the adjournment of this appeal. I also have to thank you for considering the Education Council as one of the most important, because it considers inclusion as a strategic line not only of the Council, but of the Government of Greece. I fully agree that inclusion is not a political option. We could talk a lot about empathy. There is practical empathy, learning empathy, innate empathy, social empathy, cultural empathy and even idiosyncrasic empathy. Probably, in the Nordic countries of that country, they have very little. In any case, as an expert in child psychology and education, I'm not a supporter of ad hoc programs to teach such important things as empathy. Let's get what we're dealing with. As you also said, to answer the question, I'm going to sound a little repetitive, because many, or almost all of your questions, have already been reflected and explained when I spoke of attention to diversity and inclusion in the start-up appearance course and also in the budget. In any case, with pleasure, because I also agree with you that inclusion is not a political option, I will try to strengthen some ideas regarding the Council of Education's commitment to diversity and inclusion in Greek education. It is therefore a commitment to a proper attention from the student group, and in particular from those who have specific educational support needs. From their explanatory statement and their intervention, of course, it remains in evidence, that for you attention to diversity and inclusion is only possible with more resources, both human and material, or more hours. No matter the effectiveness of those resources, no matter the model, no matter the organization, no matter the adaptation to the changing situation in the system. Of course, your position is legitimate, but I think reality is much more complex. Resources are necessary and fundamental, but they can't be the only tool, because a model is needed that also takes into account the constant adaptation of legislation, pedagogical and methodological innovations, and the formation of the teacher's set and also families. And however they repeat over and over again the contrary, the reality is that Galicia has a model to address the attention to diversity in the whole of the German student who includes a regulation, both state — and you alluded to — as autonomics, which I think goes beyond what you mentioned; a regulation that we are also updating, as I have already stated. Resources, both material and human, that have grown in recent years, despite what you say about the cuts. Furthermore, Galicia has one of the best educational guidance networks that it works, ensuring that all educational centres — regardless of their type — contain with this service, either internally or externally. I'm referring to specific guidance teams. In addition to legislation and resources, innovation, through the design of instruments such as educational protocols — those protocols that concern them so much — and the prize of inclusive good practices. And finally, training. Training for diversity, to provide an educational response to the needs of the student, through the actions collected in the annual teacher training plan, which is one of the work lines of the training projects in centers. This approach contributes to the fact that German education — I feel it costs them so much — is the most inclusive of Spain. And President Feijóo didn't say it, neither did I, nor did the Council say it, reflect the data. According to the latest statistics from the Ministry, Galicia is the autonomous community with the highest percentage of pupils with special educational needs, and this is not a qualitative data, which is also mentioned as 92.7% of students with special educational needs. I have just arrived now from a secondary school where there were students in the classroom, with special educational needs of all kinds, absolutely integrated. Actually, this doesn't mean it's all settled, it doesn't mean that. There may always be some new cases, some different cases of students and students of different difficulties, of different pathologies, who need attention. The reality is that when this case is detected, with psychopedagogic and non-clinical criteria, although there often has to be a clinical diagnosis in certain types of disorders -- we're always talking about psychopedagogic evaluation -- the Council acts and pays attention. You want to know if adequate and balanced schooling for students is guaranteed with specific educational needs in public-funded centres. I insist, with public funds. We're talking about 70% of public centers. You were talking about 30%, but you have to talk about 70% of absolutely public centers in Galicia, and also about quality and excellence of public education. The answer to this question is known, clearly and clearly, except that it would be interesting to deny reality by confusing everything on the part, which in classical logic was not too advisable. I mean, the reality of the system with timely cases before being treated. It is guaranteed because this is the way the regulations that the Educational Administration must comply with — and I agree, it is something legitimate, it is not a political option — both in the Organic Law on Education and in Decree 229/2011, so this attention to diversity is regulated, which is precisely that decree. And I insist — as I have said in this House — that we are now updating it, because of course there are things that need to be updated over time. This Greek decree was undoubtedly a model regulation because it meant involving everyone in the development of the potentials of each student and also in the promotion of an inclusive school, and it served to provide an adjusted response to the educational needs of the student through ordinary measures and extraordinary measures. I insist on ordinary measures, because I think it is very important to talk about ordinary measures. The student's schooling procedure is carried out according to that established by the corresponding legislation, always starting from an initial evaluation by the specialist teams and taking into account the results of it to adjust the educational and educational response to the needs of that student. But it often distorts opinions and interpretations that discredit that procedure regulated by current legislation. It is not something that responds to the view that on a case you can have a family or a group, you must respect the work of specialists — I think it is very respectable — who study with perspective and rigorously each situation; you must follow a regulation and you must respect technical assessments. There are different forms of schooling that are possible: in regular schools, special education centres and combined schooling, which is producing very good results. One or the other is identified or prioritized in the search for quality education and personal and social development of the student, taking into account many criteria. First, the principles of normalization, inclusion and equity. Second, the personal circumstances of each student or student; resources that are needed and those that exist in the centres; psycho-pedagogical reports and dictates of guidance services; and flexibility and reversibility. So it's clear that there are a number of criteria that are seriously making quality education and the development of students with special educational needs a fact. I also want to highlight basic vocational training programmes for students with specific needs for educational support, because they allow them to continue this academic or professional course in the centres. And we've come to another subject that you put on the ground and that they're very interested in, which is the topic of protocols: the existence of protocols for attention to diversity, the improvement of coexistence and the prevention of school dropout. It's a lot and we don't have time to quote them all; it's a lot and we'll add more. I want to highlight those educational protocols that are at the disposal of educational communities. These documents cannot be understood as plans that set out action programmes to be developed with a temporary character, but must be understood as a set of rules and guidelines to guide and guide intervention. I insist, it is not true that everything is done, there may be punctual circumstances and particular circumstances, but the Administration must take on that double task, on the one hand, to act globally and with a model of attention to diversity and educational inclusion; and on the other hand, to solve those individual cases at the moment they appear. Therefore, the Educational Administration is in constant contact with the educational centres. The Council provided the education system for the most professional therapeutics and hearings and languages, exceeding the minimum amounts collected in the Personal Catalogue Agreement signed in 2007 between the Bipartite and the trade unions, and we do not consider there to be any cuts. It is clear that the work of control of the Government is necessary, but perhaps they should reflect on themselves in the face of serious criticism and the claim of weariness to political action, most citizens prefer, perhaps, more rigor and more positive work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u256	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u257	Rigor is what we ask, and empirical studies too. Counsellor, of course we have rules!, of course it is a matter of politics! Let's say it's thank you for complying with a law doesn't mean there's no political models! Our model is quite different from yours, just very, very different. And when we say your model is a mercantilist... well, I'll bring another interpellation that affects you directly, because the model that is expressed in the high-capacity protocol -- in which you are an expert -- is the Renzulli model. Tell us what relationship you have, for example, with Mr. Renzulli, without going further, so that we have the clear things. You're talking about rules. The first norm is the Constitution; the second norm, the international treaties; then would be the state norm and then Decree 229/2011. Look, the international treaty is of the year 2008; our decree is of the year 2011 and it's already obsolete. It's all right to tell us they're trying to update, there's a ray of hope there. Regardless of what Galeano said, that sometimes hope slips through the pocket below depends on the hour of the day, this is a very crucial hour, and I'm not talking only about theory, I'm talking about practice. Seventeen years ago, the first hippo, deaf student from Ourense had no recourse. It was his mother — a brave mother — who brought us a suitcase with directions, because in the centers we didn't know well how to meet those needs. If there were theoretical studies, but there was a lack of practice. We talked about the first girl; she wasn't yet the language of signs considered proper. Look, Counselor, it's not always easy to raise and educate nonverbal children and to know how to help them. What happens is that the difference in our decree, which recognizes the principle, recognizes it as a right... Don't talk to me about combined education and good results. In Portugal, this neighbouring fraternal country, they have 1% of students with special needs; not only with educational needs, but with special needs, which also reaches children with ASD, children with Down syndrome and children with cerebral palsy. These children have the right, right! to be in ordinary classes, absolutely right, and those are the steps we have to take. One thing is that we have a different political model. We demand a non-commercial model, and public education is free in all its dimensions. And another thing is that you have a model of doing business with everything, with health, with education, with whatever. Nothing to see. But international rights are binding, that's what we meant. And then you just said there's guidance equipment in all the centers: it's a lie. It's a lie! Schools that have six and eight units don't have orientation departments — you know — have so many departments shared in centers. Those not up to six units are registered. The Labor University of Ourense has Seixalbo adscribed and has adscribed Marinemansa, to set an example. As for the specific guidance team, Madam Counsellor, there's a provincial specialist, and the sensory specialist in Ourense -- what a chance! -- it's a vacancy, an unmet place. Children and children who are particularly concerned about us, the most vulnerable, are those who have widespread developmental disorders, and they are the ones who have to care most, especially children with problems of psychosocial integration. We don't have to expect them to adapt to us, we have to adapt to them because they have rights; and because if we go to their world, instead of forcing them into our own, we will move forward in an inclusive society, because in teaching is where the social inclusion of the future is forged. And he's not covering his staff. And then, in relation to the students, if we talk only about TEA, and we talk, for example, about the province of Coruña, you tell me: there was more than in the Bipartite. Look, I'm sick of references to the Bipartite! We're talking about today, about the present and the future, because today there are seventy children, who were born this year, of generalized disorder. So, if there's more children where I've been teaching for 40 years, ladies and gentlemen, I'm not talking about theory alone, I'm talking about real practice, and I'm knowing cause.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u258	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u259	And we had an Asperger student who questioned the evil of the Burgos parricide because they agreed in the same center. All the teamwork that had to be done to raise awareness and not to be judges, to create inclusiveness, to understand, respect, tolerate and include is very large, and you cannot focus only on the volunteerism of the professor. The teacher has the right to a permanent and up-to-date education.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u260	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u261	Well, I'm still not...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u262	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u263	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u264	Closure of the interpellation, adviser of Education, University and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u265	Thank you, President. Mrs. Cuña, I come to this House as an education advisor, my previous work path is temporarily in surplus. The Council goes to the Welsh experts, national experts and international experts to advise on all the issues that affect Welsh education, and usually does so with the seriousness of his research and his academic journey. And as much as they repeat over and over again, the reality is that Galicia has a model to address the attention to diversity. You mean there's no model, but there's no model. A model that addresses this attention to diversity and which includes legislation — we return to the same points — both state and autonomous. We're not looking at it, we're doing that update. It's not a kind of medium-term forecast, it's something that's happening in this present. And also resources, both material and human; innovation, through this design of instruments; training in the care of diversity, to provide an educational response to the needs of the student gathered in that Teacher Training Plan; and also one of the work lines of the training projects in centers. And it is not a minor issue — you mentioned it again — the existence and operation of the educational guidance network, because it ensures that all educational centres contain this service. Everyone has this service, regardless of whether there are shared guides, but all centres have this service. This global approach contributes to the fact that German education is Spain's most inclusive, and — I repeat — I don't say it or the president of the board. But we're dealing with a complex matter that requires a lot of sensitivity in dealing with it, I'm aware. We've got a way along, we're still engaged and we're facing new targets and new challenges. We are aware that Galicia, maintaining and enhancing what works, must update its university educational model for 21st century citizens. That is why I would like to remind you that in this course we will renew our commitment to attention to diversity and inclusive school, and we will activate — you spoke of 2030 — this strategy of inclusion, Educlusion 2025, with the update — I would like to stress — of the legislation on attention to diversity, also favouring the schooling of the student of specific educational needs in regular centres. Of course it's a right, and it's also a freedom of families to do so. And we will promote the specialization of special education centres in their face as centers of attention to special educational needs and as centers of educational resources. We will draw up a formative shock plan — we are already doing it for people who are specialists in caring for diversity, the first performances, the first sessions, are already finished — directed especially to the collective of caregivers. We aim with that academic and professional specialization of agents who intervene in attention to diversity. We intend to create networks of assistance between them, share knowledge and good practices and build among all a model of attention to diversity, with the involvement and collaboration between Counsellors, centres, associations and families to strengthen inclusive culture and improve attention to diversity in the teaching of Greek; and, in addition, this annual call for the award for good educational practices, which visible and recognizes the most powerful experiences in creating the culture of inclusion in educational centres and promoting the participation of the educational community. Finally, we will allow the student who has some type of special educational needs, also needs of support, to start in everything else that others have at their disposal. We think there's already a way. One of the last initiatives is that they also start in some sport or sports activity and that they can participate in the various sports competitions, so that we will train the professor responsible for physical education that he attends. We don't have any kind of hidden commercialist interest, I can assure you. And our collaboration with the entities and associations, mainly from families that have children and children with some kind of difficulty or with some kind of special need, is a clean collaboration, a constant collaboration and a collaboration that I think is becoming more and more frequent. We've already held two meetings with the entities and associations, and I think they're also thanking you in a very explicit way. So nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u266	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the session until 4:30. Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u267	Good afternoon. If you like, we'll continue the session with the last of the interpelerations. Interpellation by D. Julio Torrado Quintela and by Patricia Otero Rodríguez, of the G.P of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Greek Government in connection with the extraction of Berberech in the rivers of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u268	To make an inquiry, Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u269	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. In this accumulation of successive plenary sessions that we have seen, I think we're going to change a little to the third of the issues that are being dealt with. We have raised a question of interest today — which has to do with a more comprehensive analysis, although starting from the current situation — and which has to do with a question on which we believe that we can agree on some evaluation and probably disagree on some other matter of planning. Today we want to talk specifically about the production of the Berberecto and from a question that is obvious, and it's fine today. It can always be better, but it's fine. This is of interest to us because it allows us to do an analysis without trying — and we will surely succeed — to go to the short race and to the minor issue. You know, I'm also a supporter of doing that short-lined game sometimes, but I'm going to try to make a little more global rating. And we say today goes well because the data -- even though it's missing at the end of this year -- points to a good number, apparently not equal to the best data in the last ten years, but yes within the best, right? In any case, there is one question that we would like to evaluate, which is this variability and this diversity of data that has been offered over the last ten years. We've used ten years, and it's basically nothing but a decade, which is a reasonable period. But obviously we will talk, in particular, since the entry into 2012 of the problem of Marteilia, which probably affects most of the data, if not everything practically, and conditions the whole extractive process in recent times. From our point of view, there is now of course a good situation, but we believe that in some way there has been a certain erratic performance of the Council. And we point out that we said it: since 2012, basically at the end of 2012, that it was when the problem was born in the Arousa River — in the backs of the Ulla, focused on — that it extended to other areas, rather to the south, and there was a volume problem of extraction and the problem that you really don't know what's going on with that product, that the impact of Marteilia begins to cause a considerable loss of extractive capacity. The sector that depends on this product, or on this set of products, but in particular the Berbecue, is affected by two questions: one, because it has no product to extract and sell; and two, because there is no forecasting capacity about what happens. We, above all, are going to this, to ask you what we believe is not done properly from our point of view. We already have a debate in the Committee on Fisheries and knowledge that the Council defends its performance, it couldn't be otherwise. But we have some discrepancy, and especially in the perspective of what's going to happen. That is our approach: what do we know about what is going to happen? or what can we predict to provide the sector with something we will surely agree on, which is the ability to plan within the natural instability that this medium has and that this sector has? Because within all the instability that you can have, if we can make that predictability easier for you on average. As we said, the data was certainly erratic. And on one occasion we discussed the situation in the Commission. From our point of view, denial and lack of self-criticism were great. There is a certain investigative power, quite interesting and quite good, in Galicia, but not fully addressed, but many times used only the arguments they argued that the Council was not guilty. The Councillor's not guilty of the arrival of Marteilia. We already know that, if we accuse her of that, we will end up assuming that it is Pedro Sanchez's fault, too. But we're not at it. It's not the Joint's fault. Our suggestion is that once the performance appears, it was certainly erratic because there was no ability to offer a real explanation of why. It's probably not possible to do so globally, because -- you know it better than I do -- it's a field where sometimes 100 percent explanation is not possible, and less in this case, than you, in particular, are very knowledgeable. But, in any case, we do believe that the sector — and so they are moving us these years — has not had a direct response, nor have they been able to get long-term planning. Probably what they got was, as it happened to us, a negative sharing of reports, sharing of global information. And we even had some situations in which, if the price of the collection was increased or the overall volume of the price obtained by the beer in Galicia over a year, it was celebrated. If the kilograms were increased, it was celebrated. But, on a market issue, many times the price increases means they decrease the kilograms, or vice versa, in natural terms. Curiously in this case it didn't even have to be that way, because other aspects come in, like the quality of the product, which can be derived even from the place where it is collected — because depending on where it is collected it will also have more quality or less quality — or also that the product will be different depending on who the final recipient is. So, reducing the whole assumption of criticism to which at a given time, a given year, there are more money entered or more kilograms collected shows to us a lack of self-criticism — at least in public — of the situation. We assume that this is sometimes part of the parliamentary debate, but it is actually the final move that the sector has not had that impact it should have. And so he's been a little desperate and unprotected in the face of a situation that is building up on other problems that we've discussed on other occasions, such as the downsizing of extraction permits in recent years. Now we're under the 4,000, when this government received a situation, in round numbers, with 6,500 extraction permits in Galicia and promising to exceed 8,000. They got 6,500, promised to go over 8,000, and we're under 4,000. I know the argument, too, of course. I know where we're going to discuss this point, but this is the cold data. But by closing this parenthesis, the reality is that, with that unforeseeableness and the variability of action, they did not offer the sector a stable plan to work. And we think that's important. So once that debate has passed, we do not share that there was a great predictability — and the Council assumes that yes, legitimately, from its point of view. And we see that the data was erratic, because if you find the data, you see that point below was 2014. I think I remember that the collection data had a raise in 2016 but they went down in 2017 and went up again in 2018. And in that absence of predictability and in that inability to plan in the long term because they offered various solutions: first, let's say, get everything you could before you got any more trouble; then let it accumulate and see if it was recovered; then don't know what to do. And people, who live many times a day, because they have to have a predictability capacity, which is what the self-government must provide. In short, that change and lack of predictability leads to a difficulty planning, planning investments, even making a small personal or collective planning of some of them would be confirmed in the medium and long term. We think, once this debate has been over and taking advantage of — I insist — that the situation now seems good, our doubts, our questions, about the forecast they have, about whether the Council forecast is going to be positive, with the natural variations that may exist but positive, if it is not going to be, and therefore must be alert to the sector that the situation may not go well, and that there may have to be a period of still extreme caution, or whether we can simply continue to debate how the thing goes at every moment and one day boasts of one thing and another but not to give any answer because we really do not know what is going to happen — which is what we perceive that there is now but that it would be the most problematic situation. We rely on the ability of researchers that the Council has and the research centers with those who work, universities, especially the Greeks, with those who work. But we believe it is important to share some of the information and to be able to give stability to the sector in the forecast of what they have to do. So, taking advantage of the moment that goes well—also to try not to be accused of going to the details of things that go wrong—we wonder what's going to happen in the future and what forecast they have on which way to go, or what situation we're going to be not at the end of this year that we're already ending but in the coming year, and in all the medium and long term as possible. There's nothing else for now and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u270	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. The sea councillor, Mrs. Quintana Carballo, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u271	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Torrado, as you well say, we agreed to say that adventure what the behavior of a species in the marine environment will be is, at least, complicated. Make medium and long-term forecasts in this respect may be adventured, but even in the short term it may be too. So let me signal our aversion to conjecture that can be ruined by multiple factors. In this situation, we can look for a potential number of catches that could be made in the wake of the different plans and the number of people in them. But going further we could fall into a mistake for multiple causes. Among these causes are many of the variables that affect the extraction of the Berberect, which we can sum up on four big issues. The first one is marked by the rains and the arrival of fresh water to the seafood banks, which is sensitive to the level of salinity of the waters where the berbechecho is found, and consequently to its growth and viability. The second, inserted into the currents and wind regimes, which directly affect the blooms and which lead to the marking, by them, of three fundamental factors on this issue, such as food supply, the presence of toxins that force closures, or the rise or decrease of water temperature. The third may be marked by the presence of predators or pathologies, which, if they may not be mortal, may increase their influence by other factors that affect this species, which is one of the potentially most affected. And the fourth, and that's why it's not less important, is that it's delimited in the previous volume of extraction that can affect the recruitment of new Berberect cohorts and directly define existing players for the next year. However, allow me to be cautious and, therefore, do not look for the future, but if I am to be affected, as you explained in your intervention, that we can see what it was like this year and consequently see how it will possibly go toward the end of the year. During the period from January to October 2019, more than 2,250 tons of berbeech were downloaded into the deep Greek strips, a figure offering economic performance around 15 million euros. So we're 33% over last year for these same dates, and we're over 44% on average, as you said, in the last decade. In the same way, we paid a 34% of the billing figure of the last exercise by these dates, while this figure rises by 78% over the average billing rate of the last ten years in the same periods from January to October. So, with these figures and the lack of consolidation and addition of the November and December data, we almost reached the data of the full year 2018, in which 2,482 tons of extracted product were added, and almost 15,5 million euros in billing. I mean, we're at this point in time of what was all last year. This data seems to provide a new support to the general consideration of recovery of this species in many areas, which is a matter of public knowledge and which is perceived not only in these figures. However, I don't want to hide that this species has crossed a negative line in recent years, with a general impact that has even led us to count figures that haven't reached even 50% of this year's production. Among the factors that scientists give to this situation, there are several, among which is the strong presence of rains in some years, the emergence of marteiliosis, which has reduced resistance to low salinity episodes, or also the high quantities extracted in previous years. For all this, I don't want to do triumphalism here with a figure this year, which, if they're good, they have to be consolidated and strengthened, so we have to work on a line of multiple measures to deal with an impact of multiple factors as well. And that's why we're working on issues, as you well know, such as the regeneration of unproductive areas. More than 13 million square meters have already been recovered for shellfishing thanks to the 9 million euros invested in 255 projects that were developed by the confrereries themselves. In the second aspect, we work on rationalizing the exploitation of this species, as in almost all of them. We also work in the search for progress in the control and prediction of red tides and in the presence of toxins in general, in which the Alertox-Net Project has been working in the last few years with eleven partners from five countries, including the University of Santiago and the Intemar. We also work on looking for practical applications to avoid the influence and impact of parasites like Marteilia, where we are working from the top on three projects that add up to the year 2019-2020 almost 500,000 euros. But among those measures that I want to mention, the Cockles Project stands out for its specificity and dedication. This project which is funded by the European Union, through the funds of the Interreg Atlantic Space Call, brings with it a global investment of EUR 3.4 million. And, through this project, involving 23 entities from five countries — including the Cima, the Intemar, the University of Santiago and Cetmar, in addition to the Cambados Congress — it aims to achieve the goal of regaining production and the services that provide the Berberect to the European Atlantic regions. One of its seven objectives would be to focus on the adoption of berbeche cultivation procedures, to obtain a genetic improvement to produce hammer resistant strains, to try to develop cultivation procedures, to advance in genetic selection and in models of recovery of these species in banks. But there are still more questions to add to this project, because since the Marteilia parasite appeared in Berbecho in 2012, the Sea Council has worked to minimize the impact of this parasite and improve the production of the bivalve. In this sense, he planned a specific research action in 2013 and developed a broader research project, carried out by the CSIC and with the collaboration of the CSIC, with one of the objectives, such as knowing the transmission of the disease, a key issue to have the solution to the problem. At the same time, other research actions were carried out at the summit on the Berbek cultivation protocol, an issue that has not been developed until now. As the main objective of this work is to develop the cultivation of the species and the longer-term restocking of areas with hatchery breeding and the selection of resistant strains. But we must not forget that much of the performance of the Berbek is seen in the distance and not just in the banks. I mean the achievement, as you said, of a far-reaching upward economic valuation, which is being achieved. So, in this year 2019, the average price is about 20% above the average of the last decade, which refers to the positive evolution that leads us to have a higher volume of billing with a balanced level of extraction, since it is of no use to have large quantities of product if we do not properly value it, and of no use to take out large quantities of product if the only thing we do is to weaken the recruitment capacity of the new copies. We ran away, as you well said, from the bread for today and from the hunger for tomorrow, even though we went to make a remedy for that hunger. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u272	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor for the replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u273	Thank you, President. Well, Counselor, we agreed on the time-to-time analysis. We sort of figured out why we got here. We already knew what we disagreed about before, and we knew what we shared, because the data is the data. In fact, you say we're getting closer to last year's data and we're going to get over it, but the official data on the Council's own website says we're already on top, both in kilograms and in bulk, and this year we have the most expensive average price. That's it. You said we had to be careful. That's it! The highest predictability was until the end of the year. We're on November 20th, he's not long left. I mean, making a forecast for the next month isn't even such a huge forecast until next month. Even if today is a very interesting day, there's nothing left for the end of the year. It's true that you can't make a great forecast, but we're thinking that we'll know something or something the Council will know, or something you might love. We understand all the caution about not venture — as you said — and it's okay. But some forecasts will have to be made. Because we've had years of experience in which it greatly increased. I have the data: after a bad year 2012, 2013 worse, 2014 almost equal to 2013, in 2015 there was a big moment; but after that, it seemed that it could be the new appearance and that it was overcoming the problem, in 2016 there was a huge download. Of course there's no need to venture, but we want to know why. And it's the responsibility of the autonomic administration to give some answer. We understand that one can't answer 100 percent to the question, nor assure the whole situation, but if we understand that some answer must be given. We share caution, it seems good to us, but caution cannot be an extreme hermitism about what the situation is. Because, actually, what we're saying is that this is okay today and that we don't know how it's gonna go tomorrow. Something we should know, probably not a hundred percent. We know that, there's no problem, but some questions we must know. Because the final question is, what do we tell the sector? What do we tell him? We tell him, "No, look, you go today but tomorrow we don't know whether you're going to be able to go or not; and if you have to make some investment, you're going to finance it well, because we don't know if tomorrow is going to have to stay at home. The sector is fully aware — you know — of the variability of situations. But they need some reality, or at least something to hold on to. And we expect what more can be given to them than to say to them, "I know what? What do I know?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Because that shouldn't be the situation. Last year was fine, the previous year was fine, this is going even better. So it seems that the situation is good. But before we throw bells because we must understand that there are mechanisms, there are research mechanisms. The Council has good researchers. And I use it to remember a proposal that we made about the creation of our own institute that had brought together all the lines of research, that could accommodate collaboration with universities, as they have in Basquedi, for example, that they do a good job in that sense and that maybe they could give us more answers, better spaces and possibilities for work to researchers. But in any case it is another debate. But the question is then — since that fateful year of 2012 when Marteilia appeared, and since 2015, which has been the worst year — what we know. And it's already four, six years old, seven years old... because we can't be at the mercy of what the air says — in this case what the sea says. And, therefore, we thought about and recidivized on our question of being able to predict and know what's going to happen. With all due care, but with some certainty, because we need to give certainty to a sector that has complications — this has been discussed many times — and that it has a need to know what will happen in its future. And, therefore, we insist on the need for you to give some answer. They're already ahead, and the groups that will have to debate it, that our motion proposal for the motion is going to be to get data, or at least share the data. So far — let me claim — the Counsellor does not share any data, the investigations are never shared, the research reports that they have never made them easier. And we are going to propose this not for nothing, but because we believe that it is possible that, if you share the information, we are able, at least, to have some more information, which also has its resources to provide and to which often no help is required — only to some part of the sector and not to everything — is needed. But that of the conflict they feed in the sector is already fruit of another debate that we've had before, it's not debate to have today. But we'll go there, in addition to other ideas, about the need to share the information, which we hope will be at that moment, even if it's only at that point, shared with everyone. Until then, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u274	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. The sea councillor, Mrs. Quintana Carballo, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u275	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Torado, well, you tell me I'm not making predictions more than in the short term. And the forecasts that have been made in the shellfish field in Galicia since 1991 are made through the plans of exploitation — as you well know —. We approve the operating plans every year, and in our own plan they are said to be the forecasts of what can be obtained this year. Then go much further, you know it's complicated. Anyway, it's good for you to know that right now there's enough scientific documentation and work, through the area biologists and the technical assistance that is funded to all the confrereries that have plans for shellfish, such as to make predictions almost three years ago. And, therefore, the plans of exploitation, from next year onwards, will have a duration of three years. So we can already, in some way, confirm production forecasts over these three years. Now, I'm surprised you keep saying here that we've hidden information, that we haven't done anything, that we haven't reported the sector. Home!, I can tell you that Marteilia began to detect in 2012. Sorry, in 2012 he started detecting mortality and the causes were not known. And at the same time, a specific research action has already been commissioned to the research centre that is dependent on the Council, which has worked in collaboration with both the Higher Council of Scientific Research and the various departments of the University of Santiago. They started to work and we invested more than a million euros in different research projects, all led by the Council's own researchers — as I say, in collaboration with all universities and state-dependent research centres —. Today we can say many things: we already know what is the disease that was attacking the Berberetto; we have been able to move forward in which are the intermediate guests who use this protozoa to contaminate the rest of the Berberettos; we know that the sick Berberects do not contaminate the sans but they need this intermediate guest, at least one; we know that in the creek of Walls and Noia there is no such intermediate host and, therefore, there does not progress to disease; we know that in the river Anllons we do not have this intermediate guest and therefore also do not reach the information; we know and we value the impact in all the production areas of the Arousa River Berberect, the river of Pontevedra and the river of Vigo; we were able to make strains in principle resistant to this species. Unfortunately, after two years, we were robbed of the Berberets that were exposed to a beating and we had to start the studies again. But all this data — as I say — are known by all scientists, are discussed in all research projects. The Cockles Project, which is the Interreg project -- as I told you -- where researchers from 23 countries work, because it's even on youtube. I mean, I think you can't be given more publicity. If you want me to come here explaining one by one all the research projects, because I have no problem doing it. Scientists know it costs them a little while longer, while they don't have all the scientific work closed, to find out what preliminary results they have. There are some research projects that started in 2013 and we're still revalidating it back to 2019, 2020 and 2021, that is, scientists are still working. I fully trust the work of scientists, I know that the sector is talking to our researchers every day and that they have at least as much information as we have in charge of the Council of the Sea. If you want to know in detail any of these research projects that are under way, of course we'll bring them in without any problems. Because, of course, science is not done to stay in a drawer, but to spread it and to find solutions to the problems it has, in this case, the sea sector, which is what most suffered from the problem of marteiliosis, specifically in the backs of the eye. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u276	Thank you very much, Counselor. We move on to the next point, the question to the Government. Question by Ms Maria Ángeles Antón Vilasánchez and six other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the master lines that are implementing the Council of Education, University and Vocational Training for the formation of teaching bodies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u277	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u278	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Counsellor, the People's Parliamentary Group has asked this question because we believe that quality education cannot be talked about without the continuing and continuing training of professionals on which the system revolves. The formation of teaching bodies is a constant concern when designing, drafting and drafting standards and programs of any kind in education; understanding that it is one of the most outstanding factors in the system and deserves priority attention. This is reflected in national standards, both in the law of 2006 and in its 2013 amendment and in the Welsh legislation, with Decree 74/2011. And I'm going to refer to this regulation, because at the end of this autonomic decree Galicia has a new scenario on what to develop the educational training for teaching bodies, which I had a new vision, a new look, in the way of understanding the continuing formation. The decree sets three tools for the teacher service: A training service for teachers — creating a reference unit within the organisational framework of the Council itself — is responsible solely for coordinating the continuing training structures of teachers, as well as the promotion, management and registration of training actions. The Autonomic Center for Training and Innovation. This body, created by this decree, functions as an analysis of the needs of the teacher and the design of the annual training plans. Right now, if we've taken a look at the training activities from its creation to this day, we'll see how the CAFI collects social concerns, technological advances, the drive of innovation and our own concern: language, culture and heritage. And the third tool, as I said before, is the training and resources centers, which are the last and first link of the chain, because they are the units responsible for executing the actions approved annually in the plans, while they are the units that detect and meet the needs and demands of educational institutions. Thus, with these vimbies, the Education Council has formed the teaching bodies of the different levels of education in Galicia in the last eight academic courses. And I think it is appropriate to highlight here the sensitivity and commitment of those responsible for the formation of teaching bodies, which is as much as to say of the Council itself, by coexistence, inclusion and equality, transversal matters that will be present in all seminars regardless of their theme, as it is collected in the current plan in force. From our point of view, Counselor, the creation of these three tools was quite correct, because it is not possible to implement new lines of action in teaching without providing resources for teachers and centers. And here again, I have to stress the Council's commitment to the permanent formation of teaching bodies over EUR 7.2 million for the 2020 budget, which, as you recall in your presence, is the highest figure in the entire historical series; and the will and resources to implement strategies such as Edulingu, Eduxgal, Educonvives, or plans such as equality, libraries, or programs such as Project and program contracts. Counsellor, what are the future actions for training conceived from the Council?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u279	Thank you very much, Mrs. Antonio. Mrs. Pomar Tojo has the floor of the Councillor for Education, University and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u280	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Indeed, Mrs. Antón, a quality education system is associated with well-trained and well-trained boys and girls, for which it is also essential to provide teachers of all these boys and girls, and the management teams of educational institutions, are up-to-date, who are up-to-date to meet the needs, demands and challenges of the student. They know that from the Council, within the powers conferred upon them, we are committed to continuing training, so that we can enhance the learning of foreign languages, the acquisition of scientific-technical competences, equality and co-education, as well as the inclusion and vocational and professional guidance. Prior to each new school course, a new annual teacher training plan is drawn up, which arises precisely from the detection of the interest and demand for the training of teachers themselves, the results of previous planned activities and the real needs of the system. I take advantage of your question to point out that in the dawn of the 2018-2019 course training plan a total of 3,350 training activities, 8% more than in the previous course; and the 25,000 teachers and teachers trained, with 86,200 hours of training, 14% more. As in previous years, around 65% of this training was carried out in schools themselves to facilitate no displacement. So, on the subject, the most demanding lines are the didactic integration of new technologies, network collaborative work through virtual spaces of digital education, school coexistence and classroom climate, healthy centers, relationships with families and training initiatives in the STEM field; and, secondly, inclusive school, diversity care, and the scientific and didactic updating of the professor. In the field of teacher training, we have an essential premise: we must accompany the main educational initiatives with specific training for teachers and management teams. And so for this course 2019-2020 we continue to promote the permanent training of teachers and teachers from the Greek through educational centres, the CAFI and training and resources centres. I would like to highlight, in a special way, the bet on the continuing training plans of the teacher directed to public centers that provide primary, ESO and bachelor's degree. The aim of this initiative is to update and improve the professional skills of teachers needed to respond to current educational challenges, boosting their application and development in the classroom and seeking educational excellence and improving the quality of education and school results of students. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u281	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u282	Thank you, Counselor, for your answer. You'll allow me here to reflect and thank you. Thank you for the teaching bodies, because your involvement is more than demonstrated by your participation in the training activities, by the development of new teaching and thematic materials that guide the entire educational community, by your participation also in cooperation programs, even beyond our autonomous community; ultimately, by the objective of the Council itself: quality education based on inclusion, coexistence and equality. And the reflection, Counselor, is that teacher training is one of the subjects that have been on the political agenda for some time now. In fact, it was the well-known socialist Mr Rubalcaba who coined the term "Education MIR" in the political field to introduce in the debate the need to reformulate access to the training of the teaching profession, with the aim of improving the formation of teaching bodies — especially the initial training — since, according to various international reports, the qualifications of teachers in Spain are far below average. Since 2010 we've been listening to the need to change access to teaching, without the fact that we've been taking steps in that direction. However, in the electoral programs of the major political parties that have presented themselves to the recent general elections only those of the People's Party and Citizens specifically speak of an MIR system for teachers and a teacher's status. And it seems that it would be necessary for us to really know the intentions of each party, because, according to the Constitution, education is a right that regulates the state, so the process of access to education also has to be of the state, although it is then the autonomous communities that must execute, develop and evaluate the advance access. So, and finally, we would like you to comment on this issue, because, as we have said many times, teaching bodies are the cornerstone of the system. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u283	Thank you very much, Mrs. Antonio. For the Government's replica shift, you have the floor of the councilor of Education, University and Vocational Training, Mrs. Pomar Tojo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u284	Thank you, President. Mrs Antón, it is true that in this House the Council has on several occasions defended the idea that in order to ensure the proper functioning of the Greek education system, it is very important to encourage teachers and management teams to be up to date to meet the needs, demands and challenges faced by the student. We also strongly wagered for permanent training, the competence of the Council itself, so that we can enhance this learning of languages, the acquisition of scientific-technical competences, equality, co-education and inclusion, and vocational and professional guidance. But we must not forget that it is also important to ensure that future teachers already have a good initial education, as a step before access to their profession, to their teaching role. The teacher is a key piece in the training of the student. And I want to remember the OECD report that alerts you about your preparation. It ensures that 52% of Spanish teachers are not sufficiently prepared either in content or in pedagogy or in practice in the subjects they teach, according to the data in the TALIS — OECD report. This report also points out that only 48% of those who study to become teachers receive an initial education that includes the content of the subject they teach, teaching and teaching practice in some or all of the subjects they teach. That's why from Galicia we want to demand again the need to improve initial training in access to the teaching profession, and to analyze different formulas, such as the creation of this educational IRM or other alternatives, while articulating progress in continuing teacher training. It seems that at last — it seems — the state will have a new government. I take this opportunity to ask you, as I have already done by letter to the Minister, to deal seriously and rigorously with matters that involve a real improvement in teaching. From Galicia we appeal to the Ministry of Education to abandon the generation of unnecessary controversy and instead start working for education. In this sense, we call on the future Central Government to face once again the development of a statute of teaching, which takes account of the opinion of the autonomous communities and of course of the unions. Let us remember that, before the elections of April 28, PSOE, PP and Citizens proposed a statute of teaching. And, as you well said, PP and Citizens spoke clearly of an educational MIR. But it seems that the Socialist Party has limited it to reorienting and strengthening teaching training and access to the profession, research and knowledge of new pedagogical models among teachers. So we are fully in favour of retraining, once again, that possibility of a teaching MIR and substantially improving the initial training of our teachers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u285	Thank you, Mrs. Pomar. Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u286	The next question, 7.2, was removed by its authors and we moved on to 7.3. Question by Da Oolaia Rodil Fernández and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the performance that will be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the directions of the Galego Centre of Arts of the Image and the Galego Coreographic Center
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u287	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u288	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. Good afternoon to the councillor, too. We asked you today from BNG, Mr. Rodríguez, about the future of three cultural centres that are key to our country and that the People's Party has been dismantling for the last decade. We're talking about the Galego Drama Center, the Galego Coreographic Center and the Galego Art Center of the Image, which are currently found, in the three cases, without direction and which are still undergoing the budget cuts of the People's Party. In the case of the Dramatic Center, you set up the public contest to renew the management on 30 August, even though they knew from May that Fefa Noia had left office; in addition, a riot that occurs without the Board having listened to or heeded the demands of the theatre sector for the necessary re-founding of what it is — or must be — the badge ship of this country's national theatre. In the case of the Coreographic Center, they've been out of direction since October, when Mercedes Suárez stopped at his post. And he did it, in addition, among the harsh criticisms of the professionals of this country's dance, who denounced the inaction, the inactivity, with almost three years without its own production, without a plan of action for the arts of movement, with enormous opacity in rendering accounts and maintenance of incompatibilities that have never been justified by what was its director for many years. Similarly, the historical CGAI is beheaded. Guillermo Escrigas, who had taken on his coordination in 2007, retired this summer and Galician Union has not yet covered its vacancy. But the CDG, the Coreographic Center and the CGAI are not only headquartered, they not only keep their structure out of direction, but you keep cutting their budgets more and more. And the figures, in addition, speak for themselves. In the 2020 budget project, the budget of the Galego Dramatic Centre is cut to EUR 250,000. In the case of the Coreographic Centre they leave the budget for 2020 in only 50,000. And in the case of the CGAI they go from 175,000 euros — which was very little — to 132,000. What we ask you today is that the future of the People's Party in Galicia wants to give these cultural centers to the People's Party in Gaulza, if they're going to carry out this cut and, above all, what the future lies ahead for both the direction of the Coreographic Center and the CGAI. For now, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u289	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Rodríguez González, Councillor for Culture and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u290	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Mrs. Rodil. The truth is, I thank you for your concern and your interest in the Galician Agency of Cultural Industries and its production centers. Of course it's an interest and a concern that the Government shares. And we sincerely appreciate your asking this question because it will give us a chance. I almost even thought it was from our group. And I say it gives us the opportunity to announce that in the next few days, immediately — practically in the next few days — if you will publish the preliminary draft of the new statute that comes to regulate the Galician Agency of Cultural Industries, where you will undoubtedly find the answer to your questions. Why do we do it? Why are we proposing this new status? For a simple reason: unlike their idea and their message of dismantling, we are with a future project, we are with a project at a time of change and strengthening Agency. This change, this strengthening, wants to face up to and will certainly meet the challenges facing modern cultural industries. And I want to do this through a new statute that will harmonise, regulate and propose a new organisational structure, first, to adapt it to the various policy changes in recent years — for example, to the derivatives of the Public Procurement Act — and also to the changes resulting from the natural evolution of the sector itself. As you know, we are facing a very complex sector that in recent years is experiencing a real revolution and, with this situation, we must adapt the new organizational structure of Agadic. Well, these changes are taking place right now, and we're in the new structure. You have set here a series of casualties, lows for various reasons: by retirement, in the case of Guillermo Scrigas, or also by a professional promotion — which we are very glad about — at Fefa Noia. I'm going to tell you the news of the new status. The first is the creation of a new figure for the agency, which is the manager's figure. It is a very necessary incorporation that will enable you to coordinate all the administrative management — which is a lot — of the agency. The second is that the Galego Art Center of the Image, the CGAI, will be included within the Agadic structure. So far he was affixed, and now he's going to do it at the state level. With regard to this case, it must be said that, despite the retirement — as we have already said — of its director, Guillermo Escrigas, the centre has continued to function perfectly thanks to its very good professionals who develop their activity completely normally under the direct direction, in this case, of the director of Agadic. Another important change will also be the creation of a department to promote and support the Galician dance, on which the Galego Coreographic Center will depend, and whose main mission will be to promote the Galician dance through specific support programs to the sector.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u291	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u292	In short, we are faced with a change, a transformation, before a new statute which, without a doubt, can answer their doubts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u293	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u294	Thank you, President. I must admit that they never cease to surprise me, Counselor. First of all, what a chance the Galician Nationalist Block brought this question here today and you get out of the sleeve now the announcement of that new status of Agadic! I would first ask you who you are negotiating with because, before you bring this question to the plenary — as you can verify — and I am sure that this does not surprise you, we consult with the sector, with the performing arts, with the theatre sector, and we explained to you what were the accounts you intend to approve with the 2020 budget. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And, absolute surprise, they didn't know that budget cut. And we also voiced our concerns, our concerns, about this peeling of these two production centers and the IGC, and they didn't know that they were neither developing a new status for Agadic nor what contents would have that status. I believe that all people, both in the stage arts, theatre, dance, as well as actors and actresses in our country, as the Galician Nationalist Block itself is the first news we have. You recently attended the Budget Commission to talk and present the accounts for the year 2020, and one of the questions that I have insisted on from the BNG Group was what the future of both the CDG and the Coreographic Centre would be. And you didn't say anything if you were preparing any statute. What I think is that you just pulled this out of your sleeve now to try to find a justifiable justification, which is that they've been dismantling for a decade now both the Drama Center and the Coreographic Center, and that now what we see is that, after the personnel cut that has been suffering from the CGAI since 2016, you haven't even thought about changing your course. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And that is what is reflected in the budgets, in the accounts for the year 2020, which are — and finally, President — the shaping of the political project that the People's Party has.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u295	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u296	I insist...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u297	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u298	...will they commit that snippet...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u299	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u300	...or will they support BNG's amendment to increase these budgets?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u301	Thank you very much. The Minister of Culture and Tourism, Mr. Rodríguez González, has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u302	Well, Mrs. Rodil, you record -- if it's all right with this role you've done -- on November 11, 2019 this question. And you're almost saying that we're setting up a new status after your question. You should know that setting up a statute of an agency, of a public agency, is a project and it's a process that takes a lot of time; above all -- if we're creating new squares, because we just have to consult the public service, we have to make proper budgetary adjustments, we have to set up administrative levels, etc. Which I think you've been wrong about, and that's why I thank you very much for doing it, because you gave us the opportunity to consider the work being done in parliamentary headquarters. This is a work of change, transformation, an agency that is designed and oriented to serve the cultural sectors, cultural production, the country, and, of course, production centres that depend on it. I told you, we're going to create a new square -- in this case as a manager -- we're going to create a new dance department. Obviously you will have to assume, you will have to assume, that this is agreed with a very significant part of the sector. I don't know who you're talking to but you can be perfectly sure that this is talking to the sector. And I can also clearly tell you that in the case of the Galego Dramatic Center, we are in the process of selecting a new director. Why? Because the director who had ascended -- and we are very happy -- and this is a demonstration that there were good professionals in the technical direction of this service, absolutely good professionals. Light up! [[Applause]] Light up! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And, of course, we have to do it by following the procedures and we have to follow the processes and guarantees established by law, which I understand you support. [[Applause]] And in this case, with regard to the IGC, I'm also telling you that in the IGC, once the new statute is approved — I said it before and I repeat it now — we will proceed to the selection of its responsible. You'll understand that with a change in the agency's organizational structure, you have to wait for a new director's dowry. And the same thing happens in this case with the new dance department, which is going to be one of your missions to run the Galego Coreographic Center. Ladies and gentlemen, this is certainly a complex moment. There are many changes in cultural management, in cultural production, and this makes it necessary to modify existing structures and adapt them. That's why there's a new statute, which will be published immediately. And, of course, you understand that you've been working for a long time now -- not since November 11, as you might think -- you've been working in this field for a long time. And the truth is that this will be able to respond to a growing cultural industry that is constantly evolving and that, despite its deliberately catastrophic vision, I believe that ultimately the data and results are the most important. [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] There are very good professionals at these centers and they perform their work with complete freedom and always thinking about encouraging and creating the public, and empowering the Greek cultural industries.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u303	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u304	So it was done and so it's going to continue to be done with the new structure...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u305	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u306	...which will derive, and which will be published...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u307	Counselor, thank you very much. We moved on to the next question to the Government. Question by Mr Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and eight other Members of the G.P. Galician people, on the amendments approved by the Council of Health in the Galician vaccination calendar
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u308	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u309	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Vaccination is a matter of great importance to the health of the Greeks and the Greeks, because we must not forget that only a hundred years ago infectious diseases were the main cause of death in the world, even in developed countries. Vaccination is currently estimated to save 3 million lives each year. In recent times we are experiencing a serious situation for the public health of European citizenship. On the one hand, it's because of the activity of the anti-active groups, which are promoting campaigns against their use. Even some of the members of the European Parliament have become negative media stars by supporting these groups, groups with whom many scientists agree at all, who say that they are one of the three major problems that society must face by 2050. Today we read in the press as the Nobel in chemistry 2015, Tomas Lbabel, asked by these anti-active groups, says: "I think it's embarrassing, because vaccines protect so many children... If we go back a few years, the virus was a serious killer of children, or disfigured them. Imagining that this movement against vaccines is taking so much force doesn't make any sense." And, on the other hand, it also influences the true relaxation of society to certain diseases that we have created eradicated. The first woman who discovered the two vaccines, that of the feral cough and that of meningococcal B, also asked by this anti-activacin fever, said repeatedly that if there are diseases they don't know, it's because there's already someone who's been vaccinated before. And he said, "We mustn't forget this." We are aware of the importance that vaccination campaigns — as is done in Galicia — continue to be promoted in all countries, as it has been shown that, when coverage rates descend, diseases that are relegated again appear. We are aware of the increase in cases of infectious diseases, such as measles, viral disease that is usually benign but that in some cases may have serious complications and even death. In 2018 WHO launched the alert and demanded measures against countries at risk of taking decades of progress in the protection of public health. Apparently safe from anti-active currents, Galicia maintains high vaccination coverage that allow a good level of Community protection. Program coverage exceeds 95% recommended in most vaccines included in the calendar. And yet the alert is on. Even today, a outbreak of popes was detected on the campus of Pontevedra and the territorial head of Health of Pontevedra has activated the protocol. Galicia has a very good schedule, both for children and for adults, which is still under review, adapting to the changes that are taking place. That's why we asked him: what changes were approved in the Greek vaccination calendar? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u310	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. The health counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u311	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam. "The vaccines saved 1,500 million lives, not vaccinating is a crime," said biochemist Jules Hoffmann, Nobel Prize in Medicine 2016. Despite this, and as you know, vaccines are constantly being attacked from different fronts, and in different countries they are producing a rebound of diseases considered to be eliminated in our middle, as is the case with measles. He said that -- as you well pointed out -- this morning in the media Tomas Lbabel, Nobel Prize in chemistry 2015. So this year the World Health Organization has considered the doubts that are intended to spread about vaccines as one of the major global health threats. That's why we can't get the guard down, and since the Health Council we've been working on defending and improving the Welsh vaccination program, because it's a basic axis of our government action. And the bet is clear in the budgets presented a few weeks ago, which we expect to approve before the end of the year. It's 16 million euros for vaccination. I think it's an important and budgeted bet. In this sense, I want to remember some of the most significant features of these years, such as the approval and implementation of a new child's vaccination calendar and also the approval and implementation, for the first time in Galicia, of the adult's calendar. Among the latest developments, I want to point out that since June 22 we have replaced the bivalent vaccine against the human papilloma virus with the non-avalent vaccine, which increases the protection against cancers that induce this virus — cervix cancer, vulva, vagina, year, penis, oropharynx — and also protects against genital warts. We also expanded the risk groups that can benefit from existing vaccines on the market from July 22, for example, in the case of human papilloma vaccine it has expanded to new risk groups, such as people with HIV infection or who are in prostitution, men having sex with men, women with solid organs transplants, or hematopoietic progenitors. In all cases we extended it until the age of 45, extending the recommendation promoted by the Ministry, which in some cases limited it until the age of 25. We raised it up to 40 years. Investment in those vaccines increased by EUR 590,000 — compared to 2019 — by 2020. We expand and promote its use in people with immunodeficiency, whether primary or secondary. This same year, changes in meningococcal vaccination have also been approved, which will be implemented in the next month of December. The tetravalent vaccine, which in pre-adolescent population of 12 years, will be used, will replace the current vaccination with the monovalent vaccine against serogroup C; and will expand the new W and Y strains, which are beginning to grow in Spain, as they have already done in other European countries. So we're still working on improving this vaccination schedule, both child and adult. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u312	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u313	Well, thank you very much, Counselor, for your answer. Once again we confirm the concern of the Health Council for updating and improving the vaccination calendars in Galicia, closely following the evolution of population coverage and expanding — as you have just said — the risk groups that can benefit from existing vaccines on the market. Fifteen days ago we read in a newspaper that rotavirus is the main cause of acute gastroenteritis in children under five years of age, and that the risk of complications increases among premature babies. Do you expect the Counsellor to have any vaccination guidelines for this virus? And to finish, since we are engaged in the influenza vaccination campaign, it is also present in the media these days: "The Valencian medical union criticizes the lack of influenza vaccines and criticizes the lack of health forecast." He said: "The lack of influenza vaccines in almost all health centres in the Valencian Community requires appointments for a month or a half, and has criticized the lack of forecasting of the Health Council for the consequences that may lead to for the population at risk." And I'm not going to talk here, of course, about the disappearance of the flu vaccines in Andalusia. Of the 27 million euros, if we relate it to yesterday, because I don't want to talk about it. I mean, despite the criticism of opposition groups, we're lucky that this doesn't happen in Galicia. There are flu vaccines for all citizens and we have a stable government that is forecasting and fulfilling its duties and work. I'd like to ask you, Counselor, this second shift if you've made any changes in this vaccine for this 2019 campaign. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u314	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. The Secretary of Health, Mr Vázquez, has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u315	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yeah, the truth is, we're happy because this year's influenza vaccination campaign is going better than last year's, with the increase in citizens' participation. But besides that, if we improve the quality of our vaccines with vaccines of greater immunogenic activity. Since last year we used for the first time in Galicia, in children under 15 and pregnant women, a new tetravalent vaccine that incorporates a second strain against the influenza B virus above the three that brings the triviral vaccine that up to that time was used. And in this 2019 campaign, apart from expanding the vaccination campaign one week longer, we also generalized the use of tetravalent vaccine in cell culture to the entire population between 15 and 64 years old. This vaccine minimizes the risk of changes in egg-produced vaccines with respect to virus A H3N2, thus ensuring better correspondence between the vaccine and the strain against which it is intended to protect. The use of the adjuvant vaccine has increased, which leads to better immune response in people over 65 years of age. Until this campaign was only indicated for 75 years and, as I say, we went down to 65 years. And also the improvements introduced in the case of anti-gripal vaccination logically lead to an increase in budget, which is around EUR 1.3 million for all of this. In this month of November and after its approval at the Public Health Commission of the Interterritorial Council, we introduced the vaccination against rotavirus in premature children born from the 27th to 32nd week of gestation that are clinically stable and have no contraindication. It has to be said that the number of premature babies increases year by year, and therefore it is very important to protect against a virus that has a high mortality rate and that we can have them vaccinated against it. I also assumed an increase in the budget of EUR 150,000. The Greek calendar is one of the most complete in the world, and logically we will continue to work that way for, year by year — as I say, with coordination with the Ministry of Health — to be able to increase not only the number of vaccines but also that immunogenic power. And we continue to work, as I say, in conjunction with the Public Health Commission — we are not going for free — and with the Galician Commission of Immuno-preventable Diseases to continue to improve the protection of the population of Galicia through vaccination, either by introducing new vaccines or by expanding indications. In front of unmanned Europarliamentaries, we followed scientists, as we said at the outset, such as Jules Hoffmann or Thomas Lmodal, or also the World Health Organization. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u316	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Paula Vázquez Verao, G.P. Mixed, about the date Sergas planned for the end of the guide uniting protocols for the approach of a gestational or perinatal death in Greek hospitals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u317	Good afternoon. We are in November 2019 — something also evident from this cold voice of those who speak to them — but the fact is that on this date a unified protocol in Sergas is not yet available to address gestational loss and perinatal death. It should be noted that the Board had committed itself to having it in the first quarter of 2019 — and I quote Sergas' Deputy Director General of Health Care. It would be an approach to perinatal and neonatal death. But we must also point out that we are already ending the second decade of the 21st century and are still demanding means and protocols to address these types of situations. It's true that it has recently been seen much more, thanks to the feminist movement, the association of women and professionals also of the Greek health itself, all that has to do with the claim of health care to the most "humanized" management and delivery, centered on women and their physical and emotional well-being. Therefore, women who have suffered various situations of gestational or perinatal loss have bravely moved publicly — we want to make it clear here — their experiences, which in many cases were absolutely traumatic and because, essentially — analyzing the cases — of ignorance and lack of protocols established to address this complex situation at the psychological level. And depending on the hospital he played, it happened one way or another. According to INE data, the state produces an average of 4.5 perinatal deaths per 1,000 births. It's true that it's one of the lowest rates in the world, thanks precisely to those scientific and medical advances, as well as massive vaccination. But even though the rates, both perinatal death and gestational loss, are low, the case is that they hide stories of women who have suffered true situations of terror, traumas that take many years to overcome and that they need psychiatric and psychological help -- and even there are those who are not able to overcome it in full life -- and who could have been avoided on that extreme level with good attention at the time of loss. We're talking about situations in which in a routine control a dead fetus is found, about the lack of knowledge about how to move that question and transfer it abruptly; about neglect such as not explaining to the woman the process that will take place in her body, whether a cesarean or a vaginal birth, and what implications this has; the tremendous cases of women who have had to face an expulsion process from a dead fetus by sharing spaces, rooms, with women who were in her normal labor or even with women with newborn babies; situations of not receiving information about how to make the donation process or about the possibility of extracting breast milk. Finally, they are a series of situations that, with clear and trained protocols, could have been avoided and which psychologically operate in many women as a real torture. We're not talking anymore about the need for that subsequent psychological follow-up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u318	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u319	The thing is, we asked him...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u320	Thank you, thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u321	...when the protocol will be and, above all, how it will develop and by what means.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u322	Thank you. The Health Counsellor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u323	Thank you very much, Mr. President. From the Health Council and the Galego Health Service we want to respond to health problems that occur throughout the life cycle of women in an integral way promoting the physical, mental and social health of all Galician women, and improving the quality of care provided. That does not mean, under any concept — as the honourable Member seems to have transferred — bad generalized attention. I don't agree with anything. What we want to avoid with protocols is precisely the variability of cases, and of course we are. The World Health Organization, WHO, defines perinatal death as the loss of a child from week 22nd of management to the first seven days of life. Spain produces 4 in every 1,000 births, according to the National Institute of Statistics. Logically, a low frequency doesn't mean that it's not an important problem for us. Yeah, and that's why we're dumped in improving this attention. We are aware that the existence of a specific action protocol in hospitals that give birth will help people who suffer from perinatal death and, as I say, will reduce the variability of the outcome. Few circumstances are harder to live and harder to explain that the death of a child, and, if it occurs in the perinatal period, the difficulty to express pain, find an explanation and understand it may even be greater. Therefore, since the Health Council and the Galego Health Service, we consider it necessary to develop a guide to care in the process of death and gestational and perinatal pain. This guide will clearly improve the quality of care in this painful process. The guide aims to homogenize professional care in these cases, provide useful tools to professionals involved in care in the process of gestational and perinatal death, provide information for more humanized attention that favors an affectionate and empathic environment to help women, couples and families accept a hard, very hard reality, and enhance women's autonomy in decision-making by providing real, quality information about therapeutic options, management to perform, documentation to implement and ultimately make a planned and shared effort based on value exploration through the meetings shared between professionals and patients. In addition, it will facilitate the continuity of care between primary and hospital staff and prevent disorders resulting from pathological and chronic duel problems, and as soon as they appear, give them timely support. These are aspects, all of them, that will undoubtedly help to improve assistance when these sad moments occur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u324	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs Vázquez Verao's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u325	Well, you didn't answer me when the guide was going to be, which in theory was going to be in the first quarter of this year. But we agree. It is precisely that it is essential to avoid this variability of situations. We didn't say that this situation had been extended, either, but what we said is that, when given, these are tremendous situations for those who buy that guide. It's fundamental and we want to know when it'll be available. But they also buy resources to develop it, and in this sense they can support a partial amendment by the People's Party to the budgets in which we demand resources precisely to develop it. Because training is also necessary later for professionals, it is necessary to increase the ratio of matrons and masons, because we are one of the lowest levels in the OECD — we don't speak in rural areas — and we need to increase mental health resources. And what seems to us to be significant, and even disappointing, is that in 2019 we have, for a decade now, a retrograde law that has been approved in this House, a series of associations for psychological care to vulnerable pregnant women who are contacted through Sergas, anti-abortist associations, and that we don't have a protocol to approach gestational loss and perinatal death. It's disappointing because these associations -- there's no more to read their pamphlets -- put on the same level a spontaneous abortion, a gestational loss, than a voluntary interruption of pregnancy. It's delusional and cruel in addition. And, therefore, we wonder when the Union will be at the disposal of the Greek hospitals, the whole health system, that protocol. Because there's a lot to be done in the care of women. It is not enough to pass that absolutely retrograde law and supposed protection of maternity, that protocol is needed, to eliminate situations that may be considered by obstetric violence, to depathoize natural processes and to address women's health in a personalized way. By the way, also in relation to that postpartum depression, we have to include the postpartum depression test in women vulnerable to this one.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u326	Thank you, thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u327	I mean, we're in a situation where in 2019 it's allowed to contact vulnerable women with anti-abortist associations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u328	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Thanks, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u329	...and we still don't know when the protocol will be.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u330	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u331	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is, it's curious that, in the face of a positive fact like the elaboration of a protocol, what comes out is that kind of criticism. And he's talking about depathology when he's talking about delusional ideas. Delirium is a pathology, it is a symptom of certain diseases. I don't think it's serious, we must respect each other's beliefs and values. I don't think it is necessary to enter that debate. But if I have to tell you that, in order to make a guide of these characteristics, it took longer time and time than originally intended. Because it is true that, if we listen to the honourable Member, she could make the guide this afternoon. You have all the knowledge, you know everything, and then the guide would be made. But we believe that not only professionals should make this guide. This guide must be made by professionals, but they must be patient associations, they must be, as they are in this guide, also involved people who have gone through this harsh reality. And that can't be achieved in a parliamentary afternoon. You get it in months of work. So I think it's more important to make a good guide than to have a guide. We want the best guide possible and we'll get it. And, as I say, he's going to introduce himself. The question, the only question that mattered to you, was not so much what there is, what must be that guide, but when it comes to it. Well, look, it's going to be presented on the XIII Perinatal and Reproductive Health Days, which will be held at the EGAP next week. Exactly on the 26th afternoon, this guide will be presented, and will then be published on the Council website. Logically, we're going to run a knowledge campaign between professionals, associations and citizens in general for knowledge. I would like to highlight and thank him for his participation in his development as professionals of all categories that may be involved in the process of perinatal death care. This working group included family physicians, pediatricians — both primary and hospital care — psychiatrists, psychologists, physicians specialists in Xinecology and Obstetrics, patients and professionals who experienced this situation, technicians from the Primary Care Sub-Direction, psychologists, primary and hospital care monitors, primary care nurses, etc. Furthermore, for the first time — for the first time we have done so — this document has also been sent to the Council of Bioethics in Galicia, which has given us some aspects that need to be taken into account in order to improve it. All those who have made this document possible want to thank you, because it is a silent document that seeks to improve existence at a very difficult time in the lives of people and families who suffer it. Protocols like this follow the line set out in the Humanization Strategy of Health Care of the Health Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u332	Thank you, Counselor. Da Eva Solla Fernández and Da María de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda, from G.P. Joint Left Group, about the number of workers and workers in the different categories that will be turned and in the global calculation the new kitchen service of the University Hospital Complex of Ourense
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u333	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. The question you have in writing says, "What will be the number of workers and workers in the different professional categories who serve in the new CHUO kitchen by turn and in the global calculation?" We know, and you too, that this question has been brought many times to this plenary but, above all, to the Committee on Health by the various groups of the opposition. However, despite this situation and that this is the situation of the current kitchen, in which, of course, there are still accidents at work, in which there are rats, and where workers and workers have to disemploy their role in absolutely unacceptable conditions in the 21st century, you continue without opening the kitchen. But for more problems, as they've already reported, and besides if you've asked about this chamber, you plan on the kitchen staff a reduction in the number of troops, mainly in what you have to do with cooking pins. You deploy a new kitchen model and instead of waiting for it to run and then evaluate the need for staff in the service, so if you have moved, there will be a reduction. You said here in an answer that the staff wouldn't be reduced, but what we've got now is one hundred thirteen kitchen pins when they actually only work in service ninety-six, and only twenty-two of these people are in a condition of fixed workers. You have a high degree of precariousness, in addition to having a very high workload, which, of course, promotes the concentration of occupational accidents within that service. A service that prepares about a thousand daily menus and therefore has a high workload, which you think will increase every time they have decided to transfer the service offered right now at the Verin Hospital. At this point, with the new closed kitchen, with the current service inside an absolutely unhealthy kitchen, which is a danger to the workers and the workers, and surrounded by an outline in which the plates of the roof drop, which disassemble the ovens, in which there are pieces of the floor raised and there are stumbling blocks, Mr. Almuín, we want you to tell us not only when the new kitchen is going to be opened, but to guarantee us what is written, i.e., number of professionals per category, by turn and overall calculation. Because we don't want to be told that there's not going to be the same number of workers or that there's going to be the same number of workers, and that what that means is that the workers are but moved to another service.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u334	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u335	Good afternoon. The truth is, curiously, if it is true that there are already several parliamentary questions about the kitchen; however, at no time did they talk about the strong investment being made precisely in the Ourense Hospital Complex, and logically in the kitchen. It is that in the kitchen we are investing EUR 5.2 million, precisely because we understand that the kitchen that was up to this time was better. And that's why he's making that change. This change leads — as I say — to an investment of 5.2 million with the appropriateness of the different areas that allow the facilities to improve their proper functioning and compliance with electricity regulations, fountains, lighting, industrial cold, climate, sanitation, gas, fires, voice and data. With this new kitchen you will avoid the crossings of circulation, minimizing the hygienic-sanitary risks, improving the working conditions of all professionals. What we want is to shorten those deadlines. Of course, that's right. But that's not what we're talking about, it seems like we made a decision not to make any changes. We're making changes, and after the new hospital building we're going to go along with the master plan, and logically the kitchen for us is priority and we're going to try to correct it. As I said in the answer to another parliamentary question, the kitchen is still being managed directly by the Galician Health Service; it knows that there are other centers that are not. And not only will it keep all jobs currently performed by stable staff, but it will increase with the introduction of new jobs. In particular, we have created four new jobs for professionals entitled in Dietetics and Nutrition, which will provide security and safety and quality to the service, and also imbody a cook in addition to the current staffing. I insist: calls for post coverage are always carried out according to the applicable selection and provision regulations. And with regard to the current chef, there's no retirement forecast. So you don't miss out on squares, but instead you increase — as I say — with these four new specialists and a cook. The management presented a functional plan adapted to the new realistic and suitable kitchen but subject to negotiation. We need to take into account when we interpret a functional plan that cannot be equated with people, because to ensure presences are needed more professional than those of the total sum. On the other hand, we continue in an open negotiation process with trade union organizations, as could not be otherwise. On the 18th there was a meeting and on the 22nd, in two days, there will be a new meeting with the central commission to move on. By the way, I have to tell you about what happened last weekend, that the previous parliamentary woman in the question already said that there was an accident at work, if you understand that the breaking of a glass from an oven that didn't affect the outside, we understand that there was no implication to the staff. So I think we should stop alarming. Of course, we all have to try to shorten deadlines and we'll be able to do it as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u336	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u337	Mr. Counselor, the kitchen model and the high cost of the kitchen, you decided. A traditional hotline kitchen was cheaper, it was the one that the professionals wanted, it was the one that was asked by the union power stations and it was the one that was asked by the different parliamentary groups. So you'll know what the money was spent on. We don't know yet, because the kitchen still doesn't open. You should be informed about the work accident, because there was a fracture, and the theme of the oven is another topic. And there are serious problems, if you think it's normal for you to have a door in an oven, open a roof and people fall to the floor, which is what happened. So you probably don't know, you probably haven't informed him -- can I keep asking the question?, can we finish the full? -- surely, Counselor, he should be much more concerned about this situation. [[Interruption.]] And I repeat: a kitchen in which there are rats, and dead rats appear, and under those conditions there are making a thousand daily menus in the hospital. That's the situation, Mr. Almuño. And I asked a question that you have in writing and a very specific question. Dietists seem great to us because it was time to comply with that initiative that was proposed by Alternative Gaga de Left in the past legislation and approved in this chamber. But what we want to know is what's going to happen on cooking pins and what's the number of professionals that's going to be on every shift, because workers and workers aren't trusted, and they asked us to ask this. You said you weren't going to reduce staff, but -- I insist -- of the ninety-six pinches that work right now, only twenty-two are fixed, and therefore you, because you don't have a stable place in that service, could move workers. And that's the reality, and they could reduce the squares of those people who are in a possible way and who don't have that place on property. So what I want is for you to answer the question you have in writing: the number of workers per professional category, by shift and not global. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u338	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Close the question, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u339	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is, this is the first time the opposition tells me that we invest less, that it seems to you to be a lot of investment in the kitchen. I think it's what it is, and we know exactly what it's invested in because it's all published. Knowledge is very clear, they go to the recruitment page and they're clear, there's no doubt about it. And, of course, we're going to continue to invest more and more in health; it's so, even if they don't like it. Look: in the coming weeks we'll have an excellent kitchen that will have natural light, ventilation, air conditioning, machinery adapted to the needs of ergonomics, in order to provide a suitable work environment for our professionals. For the equipping of kitchen equipment, workers' health from both environmental and ergonomic conditions were taken into account in a particular way. It's going to be one of the best hospitality kitchens in the country. And, of course, I know you don't like it, but it's gonna be like this. Professionals who have held different meetings with the Power, professionals who will keep their jobs and, as I say, expanding even those jobs; the most personal, more specialized than we had so far, these four new professional positions entitled Dietetics and Nutrition but that of cook. A kitchen that will work in mixed line with alternating hot and cold lines. Once the processes for carrying out that constituted the essence and design of the kitchen plant were set up a central kitchen where they can develop the hot and cold online processes in a combined way to provide service to the hospital complex. The system provided allows us to manage our diets, micro-productions, allergies and the choice of the menu by patients, all of which are synchronized with the facilities, the kitchen architecture and the equipment that pursues the UNE 16070:2014 standard, on the cold line and the prevailing sectoral legislation. All of this without prejudice to the quality of the service or the quality of the food. I want to make it clear to you that what happened in the kitchen of the University Hospital Complex of Ourense that you referred to last week's plenary, it wasn't you, it was a lady who said there was a labor accident with an explosion in an oven. He tied the oven to the labor accident, and he didn't. Corrected immediately. So, I want to tell you that we're going to continue to work to improve the quality of service, of all kinds of services, and of course the kitchen is fundamental to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u340	Thank you, Counselor. [[Murmurs.]] The question's over. It's okay. It's okay. Question by D Antón Sánchez García, from G.P. Group of the Left, on the deadline set by the Government of Greece to guarantee a housing alternative to a family living in Vigo that can be removed from their home in the next few days because they cannot cope with the payment of their rent with the Risga income
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u341	Question by Mr Anton Sánchez of the Joint Parliamentary Group on the Left.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u342	Good afternoon, Counselor. A family of Vigo — father, mother with two daughters of seven and thirteen — will be defeated. It's not an isolated case, unfortunately, neither in this country nor in the city of Vigo. The Galician Government of Galicia has no solution, because it cannot be called a solution to offer a public housing in Vila de Cruces, 132 kilometers, or in Cañiza, 56 kilometers, removing the family, already in a very difficult situation, from its surroundings, from schools, from friends, etc. In a city that has been suffering for years, as in the whole country, the tragedy of defeats, the Unity of Galicia, after ten years of Government Feijóo, has no public housing park to solve cases like this, to give solutions to the youth who want to be emancipated or to regulate the housing market and to curb the escalation of prices. How is that possible, we ask ourselves. We believe it is out of will to make policies that guarantee the right to housing; it does not defend the right to a decent housing. What will the German Government do in this particular case, Counsellor? What will the Government do to change their housing policies if it has the will? Today, November 20, it's Child Day, and it's used that day to get to know the rights of children and children; among them is the right to a home, to a home, to a stability. And these girls have been suffering from a situation they shouldn't suffer in a country that cares about everyone. Counsellor, it's intolerable what's going on day after day, because you don't make a policy of defending people's rights. You are aware that the wages of many people don't pay rents, they don't pay a mortgage, and they're being thrown away every day. More and more resources are being spent on housing payments, and there is no mechanism that you put on the table to regulate prices. They don't put any mechanism to give you a housing alternative, as it should be in cities like Vigo where there's this problem, in cities like La Coruña where they're not building public housing because they have paralysed it because they don't want it; they've paralysed the building of housing, of protection, etc. When are you going to change for all time, when are you going to worry about these real dramas that are happening every day in our country, Counselor? We will not tire of insisting that it is a huge injustice that from public administrations policies are made to increase the benefits of speculators and to stand aside, and if it is to invisibility, problems that occur every day like that of this family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u343	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Response from the Environmental, Territorial and Living Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u344	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. The Galician Union has since 2012 put twelve measures on the table to combat evictions in defense of the right to housing. Within these measures, we reached agreements with Sareb and with the various financial institutions and, at the same time, we continued to expand the housing park, not only with new housing but also through rehabilitation. But we are fully aware that the number of dwellings — not the IGVS themselves, not even the ones handed over by the financial institutions — is sufficient. From then on he would also put himself on the roof of the house and within what the social program is the Empty Housing Program. The obstacle to this program in Vigo was total and absolute, and where you governed the obstacle was also total and absolute. Aah! If the housing doesn't belong to the Town Councils, that's all. Aah! If the total housing is merely the goal of the Union. Well, there's the Law of Local Regime Bases, which in Article 25 gives such competition. And it says the employer—only the employer, because then there are other data—that only in Vigo there are five thousand hundred empty dwellings. What was he putting together? The budget. What did the county have to do? Simply management; accession through a program that went through the Fegamp, and yet they didn't want to do it. And it's a shame, go away if it's a shame! On the one hand, within this program 100 percent of the cost of unpaid insurance, in multi-risk, because, according to the different surveys, if these housing doesn't go out on the market, it's because they think they have a risk and therefore they don't put them into rent. This multi-risk and home insurance covers 100 per cent of the Galician Union and, in addition, offers aid of up to 8,000 euros to the owners of the dwellings attached to the pre-market adjustment before they are brought to the market. Well, this is Vigo's case, but I could tell you a few more cases of what was said: I don't join the Empty Housing Program. But without any explanation. I could tell you more. I agree when you say it is that the development of social housing in Vigo has been hindered. For the truth is we have invested in the case of Vigo twelve million euros, which we can say is that they are thrown away, just waiting for a plan to be approved in the Vigo Council, and all of a sudden the only excuse is: I want an institute. And I say, what will you have to see the promotional housing with wanting a institute? But then we get rid of the hair, and we say, there's no solution. And, in the end, what does the Galician Union grant? The rental bonus. And he does it through the Reconduit program, which manages the Social Policy Council. This family has been granted...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u345	Thank you, Counselor. He's got another round later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u346	Then I focus specifically on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u347	Replica, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u348	Counsellor, I don't know how embarrassed you are to talk here about the program of empty dwellings with the results that have been obtained. I've already told you many times: in 2018, two grants all over the country. What about Ourense, who joined? What about Girl, what about Cambre, what about the sixty-nine Town Councils that joined, Counselor? How embarrassed you are when I ask you about something so specific to a family that will be challenged to the one in Vigo the Galician Union has no public housing to offer and to the one who is sent to 132 kilometers as the only solution, or to Cañiza at 56 kilometers! How shame it is to throw balloons out, to blame others and not to take responsibility! It's a real shame. You said it! You said it! It's your duty to give these people solutions! Solutions that don't give them. Day after day, people who have problems in Vigo don't live. And I don't care, and those people don't care if they throw the Council's rags into the Town Hall and the Town Hall. They're both responsible, but the Vigo Town Hall doesn't do its homework. It's no excuse for you not to do it either. [[Applause]] Because there are fourteen thousand plaintiffs registered in the Register of Claimants asking for protection housing; ten thousand of them in rent. And you've built 20 in the last four years, that there's official data. Twenty! Twenty, Counselor! It's embarrassing. Tell me clearly what you're going to do to change your policies, which are a real fiasco. Those twelve measures are a fiasco, because in reality what happens: a person in the most important city of Galicia you don't have a home to offer. What are they going to offer this family to give you a solution that doesn't mean going 132 miles from their current residence?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u349	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Peche, Environmental Advisor, Territory and Housing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u350	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Sánchez, such aggression is not good, especially when we talk about families and when there's a minor... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, sorry, aggressiveness is yours, and therefore we should calm down.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u351	Mr. Sánchez, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u352	I'll give you some data, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u353	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u354	Vigo Town Hall: Five hundred properties owned by IGVS... I don't know if they're interested or not. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u355	Please, the counselor is in use of the word. I'm telling you why you must respect her. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u356	Vigo Town Hall: Five hundred housing units owned by IGVS, assigned to a rental scheme, to which you must add six hundred and fifty dwellings to a direct access scheme with a purchase option. To this we have to add... yes, Mr. Sánchez, you go to the Joint Heritage... like where? [[Explained words not perceived]] [[Murmurs]] In Vigo: five hundred in rent scheme, six hundred fifty in rent scheme with purchase option. And he's capable of saying no! It's just that you're in the Galician Union Heritage, Mr. Sánchez. That's what we have to add that right now they're building sixty-eight more, that we have an agreement of eleven dwellings with Sareb, eight with Abanca, and that, in addition, one hundred and six were rehabilitated in the old helmet. Total: 1.343 housing, Mr Sánchez. But it's true that we could be building another six hundred, and it's true that in the budget we took six million euros that we couldn't run either this year because we're looking forward to someone making the determination, which is the Town Hall. [[Murmurs.]] Even so, I tell you, of this specific housing and of this family in particular: it is being attended by the Reconduce programme, requested the social lease bonus, advised the affected ones, granted the lease bonus — EUR 225 per month for a year, extendable up to three years — and a single initial aid of EUR six hundred. Apart from this, and indeed as the family was not who — because there was no one to rent it, regardless of the fact that there are five thousand hundred households empty according to the employer — you make direct adjudication by the IGVS, Mr Sánchez. And you do it where there are -- because you'll understand that we can't take away five hundred families and sixty fifty families that are living in specific regimes -- and offer it in Caldas de Reis and in Tomineño. By not giving an answer, because I imagine they will be looking through that good rent, for it is true that Caldas's has already been assisted by another family, and there remains the option of continuing to have that of Tominho and also that of Cañiza. So it is not that the answer is not given; it is given as far as possible to the family and the family is not left destitute. In addition, it is done through what is the Reconduit program, which is currently being enabled through Social Policy. Could you do more? Of course. And what are the powers of the municipalities? There are also powers on the part of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u357	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u358	What I can tell you is that in budgets it is one hundred and eighteen million euros, of which thirty-six are headed for housing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u359	Thank you, Counselor. Question by José Luis Rivas Cruz and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the evaluation of the Council on the possible impact of the EU agreement with Mercosur on the rural environment of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u360	Mr. Rivas Cruz's question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u361	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counsellor, we are tired of agriculture and livestock being the currency of exchange; they are always lost in market penetration operations. Now, once again, we return to the sacrifice to benefit the automotive industry, large companies and banks, because Mercosur is already the main exporter of basic agricultural products to the European Union. Because already in 2018, the European Union imported Mercosur agri-food products worth €18.570 million, and European exports back did not exceed €2,200 million. Conscious agrarian organizations have been warning that the agricultural sector is going to suffer a serious disqualification if we don't arbitrate containment measures, and the experience tells us that the Italian countryside has been taking too long. There is no measure that benefits Spain or Europe that does not come to us from across. And now that there was not enough of it, for the important Spanish presence to be noticed, goes the Government of the State and heads with Germany the definitive thrust to agitate and end the treaty with Mercosur, which had been dealing for 20 years. Who benefits? We've already said that: the car industry, machinery, chemicals and large companies and banks. And who's gonna pay them? For example, it provides for around 100,000 tonnes of low-priced beef and low-health, environmental and traceability requirements in our markets. Commissioner Phil Hogan acknowledged that significant concessions have been made in agricultural and agri-food matters, and speaks of the IXP as a possible alternative to defending sectors for their penetration into the markets of Mercosur countries for the consumption of social elites. Since the BNG, we believe it is necessary to put on the balance, in addition to the great beneficiaries of the treaty, the thousands of family farms that will be adversely affected. France and its Government have entrusted an independent group of experts with a complete and transparent study of the impact of this agreement on French production. We believe that your advice at this point should have at least one position and some foresight on the consequences of the treaty on the production and transformation of our rural population. What, then, is the assessment of the impact that this agreement can have on our rural environment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u362	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Answer from the Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u363	Good afternoon, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Mr. Rivas. First of all, I have to admit that it seems to me to be your very interesting question. Look: Galicia has exactly 29,575 square miles...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u364	Microphone, microphone. Get the microphone up, you can hear it wrong.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u365	What do I do to him? Is that how you listen outside?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u366	Yes, yes. You hear yourself better there.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u367	Don't tell me these seconds. [[Laughter]] Not another mile, not a mile less. And in these 29,575 kilometers we have the fortune of living 2.7 million Greeks and Greeks that we love our land above all. We are a small large town, a small large town that has in its primary sector the best products in the world. We are in an increasingly competitive and globalized world. This new era makes the farthest countries approach, and with them their products. A more competitive and globalized world in which, Mr. Rivas, you have to be, because, between being or not being, Galicia decides to be. And I always say that in Galicia we have to compete not by quantity but by quality. Galicia is not of extension, it is of excellence. I, who deeply understand your question, as a good Greek, have to tell you what depends. Of course, I believe that this agreement is very beneficial for both sides; for both the European Union and Mercosur. As with any trade agreement that eliminates tariffs, a progressive increase in the exchange of goods and services between the European Union and Mercosur is expected. This will, of course, lead to greater entry into the European Union of agricultural products from Mercosur, but will also increase European agricultural products exported there. Today, most of the products that the European Union imports from Mercosur — it is true — are agri-food products, but it is also true that in many cases they already enjoy very little tariffs. It should also be noted that the reduction in tariffs provided for in the Treaty will be progressive, and in the case of certain products such as beef there are limits to the volumes of products benefited from these reductions to the European Union. This leaves some room for adaptation to sectors that could be affected. In this world, increasingly globalized and contrasted, they are becoming fashionable, Mr. Rivas, and — and that is indeed disturbing — isolations. All we have to do is watch Brexit or the trade war between China and the United States. That protectionism is what it is doing harm, in particular to the highest quality Greek products. Look at the wines and what's going on in the United States. So I would be more suspicious of that protectionism and isolation than of market liberalization. Galicia — and I'm done — cannot be isolated. And I think -- and that's why I'm optimistic about this and other conventions -- that with the quality of our products, which are the best in the world, Galicia can compete in this globalized world. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u368	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u369	I really liked that of "a small large people," but... a small large people with them don't know how many thousands of square kilometers you said the full yield of production, or just a few to get out of some unbeatable products and satisfy the desires of certain advertisements? Of course! Because you didn't tell me anything about whether there were any forecasts or no forecasts. You didn't look at the impact market that's going to have that entry, that increase in exchange -- the "exchange" is nonsense -- that increase in exports by Mercosur. Look at you, the French state has done its homework a long time ago. The Union of Agricultural Organisations is tearing down at the EU door and making a lot of noise demanding countermeasures, countermeasures, but you haven't told me about any of this. I mean, are there any compensatory policies? Will there be or won't there be? Did the Galician Council, and its council in particular, put forward some contingency plans, some pressure plans on the EU and the Spanish State, so that once again Galicia would not happen again? It's just that we're tired of picking up. We entered the Common Market and that was going to be a marvel. We got into the best conditions, that was gonna be the panacea of the panacea. We would already be European citizens and enjoy the welfare state. Excuse me, I've seen you! None of that happened, but on the contrary. I mean, we were in the middle of a farm takeoff and it turns out we got cut. We passed the knife and had to hide our head. The odds came and we had to abandon exploitation, and we were paid for not working!, which none of the older people I've known -- and I've known many in my life -- conceived and understood how we could afford to give up the job. And now you come and tell us that we have to put ourselves in the key of what, how do we have to put ourselves again?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u370	Your time is up. Thank you, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u371	Look, Counselor, do your homework and defend this country's agri-food.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u372	Close the question, Middle Rural Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u373	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Rivas, from the personal appreciation he knows I have, he must be careful, he's talking about our farmers and livestock, who can listen to him. Now, they charge for not working. Well... what we're talking about... is that we're coming back... [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u374	Quiet, Mr. Rivas. That's it, we're done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u375	Talk about noise. Well! Do you know what the first market we're in now, talking about Mercosur? The Common Market, the European Union. He's questioning the benefit that the European Union has brought to agriculture, and he's going to gain Greek. It's questioning EUR 2 billion in every CAP period, of which EUR 800 million is for agricultural development. Ladies and gentlemen, these are already things that cost me even to understand, excuse me for saying so, Mr. Rivas. What I'm saying is that Galicia can compete and must compete in the globalized world. We have great ambassadors of our land in the world ahead of us how our wines can be, but also our flesh, which will compete, without any doubt, in this Mercosur. Galicia is a well-known territory for our good gastronomy and it is something that we must continue to exploit, taking advantage of agreements like these to continue to open borders to our products. Let's leave us alone. Rural has to be one of the engines of the future of Galicia, the present and the next Galicia. So opening up borders and dynamizing industries, betting on internationalization and investment in R & D+i, is the key to ensuring a decent future for the German countryside. I was saying before Galicia has to be and has to compete. For that, what we have to have is pride in taking our products forward to the world. There aren't any better for me, and I'm sure you don't for all of you either. Therefore, it is vital to improve the positioning of Greek products on foreign markets, to strengthen the image of brand and identity linked to our land by means of the well-known "Galicia Quality", which must be strengthened in the agri-food field as well, and in addition, to work on the best effectiveness of our promotion and marketing. Finally, it should be noted that, according to the agreement, Mr Rivas, agricultural products entering the European Union from Mercosur countries will be subject to the same demands - which are already very high - that they have so far to bear those produced in the Community. There are many European agrarian organizations, like some of the ones you say, who are afraid of the non-compliances that can take place in this theoretical measuring rod. The fulfilment of these requirements is largely responsible for the entry points of the goods into the Community, and this is directly dependent on the Member States in this case of Spain. For me, that's all. I'm very grateful for your question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u376	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Óscar Vilar Chento and Mr José Manuel Pérez Seco of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the causes of the advance that register the processes of partial concentration in the X legislation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u377	Mr. Vilar Chento has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u378	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Good afternoon, Mr. González. The question that I am here today, at this point in the legislative process, should not be the subject of debate. This term, coined by you as the "rural legislation" should have reached its most important objectives. I should have bet on the people who work, take care of and reside in the country of Greek. Unfortunately, the facts and reality show that rural legislation is a more questionable legislation, a legislation that is being left in a mere slogan. He promised Mr. Feijóo in 2016 to help small dairy farms in order to make them more profitable and thus avoid their closure. The reality is they close more dairy farms every day. Right now we're on an average of one per day, as the data from the Spanish Agricultural Guarantee Fund indicates. According to this data, in October 2016 there were in Galicia 8,602 owners and dealers with deliveries. In September 2019 we went down to 7,249, i.e. 1,353 dairy farms less since you rule. You also assume that more than six hundred young people have been incorporated into agricultural holdings, and then many of these newly incorporated ones are denied help to modernize their facilities. This is another reality. Another example is decreed and pending partial mergers. Partial concentration, which in most cases has been more than 20 years behind. As examples: Gonzar II, in the Pino, Villestro and Figueiras in Santiago, Noceda, Bendoiro, Anzo, Madrid and Busto in Lalín, etc. The Greek Government announced the bomb and plate that in this mandate it would end with all the partial mergers, a commitment ratified on several occasions by the previous advisor and also by President Feijóo. Mr González, you in the presence of Commission 3a to explain your budgets have avoided this matter. He didn't mention the concentrations. True, he spoke of the future land mobility law, but he didn't talk about concentration processes. I know that these heights of legislation continue to maintain and continue to ratify this commitment is difficult, and it is also difficult to believe that it will be achieved. And I'm saying it's very hard to believe because it's enough for us to review the progress in this field. At the beginning of 2016 there were 137 pending concentrations in Galicia and in 2018, 128. Now there are 104 processes left, along with 17 others who have pending the delivery of titles. In short, since 2016 they have only advanced in 33 processes, or otherwise, their average is in 11 processes per year. Now, you want us to continue to trust that the remaining nine months of legislation will end the 104 processes. Do you also keep this commitment? We know that concentration processes foster the development of the dairy sector, allow for land and forestry surface management and, above all, adapt the territory to the needs of each area according to its uses. To finish, I ask you the question: what are the causes of nullity advancing in the processes of partial concentration in this legislation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u379	Thank you, Mr. Vilar. Answer from the Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u380	Good afternoon again. I have to change the heading because I had Mr. Pérez Seco, Mr. Vilar Chento. I'm glad of this question, really, because I'm a little tired of hearing a lot of lies about concentration. Let's see if I can explain something to you today. The first thing I have to tell you is that, in addition to the Law of Recovery and Value of Galician Agrarian Land which is being made by the Popular Parliamentary Group, which will mean a revolution - insurance - in the mobilization of the land in Galicia, we are working everywhere in the concentration. So I'm the main advocate of mergers. To talk about concentrations, we have to put the data on the table. We are talking about the fact that in Galicia they have been made - note, ladies and gentlemen - 1,025 areas of partial restructuring. We speak of 540,000 hectares and we benefit more than 428,000 owners and 4.1 million plots. We're talking, at all of these concentrations, about an impressive investment. We're about two billion euros. If you, the Bipartite, have ruled for four years in this autonomous community, you will agree with me that most of this amount was made by the People's Party, by the party I represent, which demonstrates your commitment to the partial mergers. It's 1.025, 90% already finished and 10% still active, 121, as you said. At this moment we have open partial concentrations, which account for a total of 120,000 hectares and about 90,000 landowners. Ladies and gentlemen, we have carried out 95% of the investment at these 121 open-source concentrations, only 5% remain, and much of that investment has been made in this legislation, more than 100 million euros. In addition to these 121 open, we have another 130 requests for partial mergers. What we did in 2015 was to modify the law that regulates mergers to speed up their administrative processing, Law 4/2015, which is Metaga. And we did something else in 2015, something that said the common sense, we said, "Let's end the partial mergers that are open before decreeing new ones." You know who did the same thing? A councilman named Alfredo Suárez Canal, who in the four years he was decreed only six new areas of concentration and to whom he devoted himself was ending those that had been opened. By the way, it left quite a few open. You know what happened in 2015 as well? That there is a change in mortgage legislation that requires an important trap to be able to advance in the processing of concentrations to the delivery of titles. In particular, we make sure that the concentration plans match the meter you put in the titles. This is practically impossible in concentration plans that began, some of them, 20 years ago. It's a very costly and laborious job to adapt. In the replica I'll continue to explain how the processing is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u381	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Vilar Chento.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u382	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. González, you didn't answer the questions I raised. You spoke again about the new Land Mobility Law. I didn't ask you about that future law of recovery and land value in Galicia. There will be time to talk about it in this House. I asked him about a very specific matter. I asked you if you're still committed to finishing the 104 pending processes in the rest of the legislation. I asked him what is the cause of the null advance in this field, what are those reasons, some reason there will be! Tell me if it's due to administrative obstacles, if it's due to a lack of resources or a lack of budget. The facts are there, in three years they only advanced in 33 processes. On November 20, 2019 these 104 are still pending. You didn't talk about budgets, but the other day we had a Middle Rural press release on budgets. As far as legislation is concerned, they have been invested in the EUR 80 million concentration processes. With those 80 million, 33 processes were agitated. This year, according to your data, they're going to invest 20 million, and they want 20 million to finish the 104 processes that have been opened. You'll tell me what you're going to do! It took 80 million to finish 33, what are you going to do with 20 to finish 104? What's the formula? [[Applause]] I know that you're the only ones coining slogans, you've coined the "legislature of the countryside," you've coined the "doing more with less." But ruling is more than coining slogans, gentlemen of the Government. Counsellor, not many days ago we read an interview with a gainful woman from Lalin who said one of the worst problems for rural people was the lack of concentration. What's the answer to those thugs waiting for the mergers? Is it still a commitment to complete the remaining concentrations of legislation?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u383	Thank you, Mr. Vilar Chento. Close the question, Middle Rural Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u384	Yes. We agree on a figure that's the 121 concentration zones. Now we're going to talk about what I've already talked about in the first part of my exhibition. Since 2016, in this legislation, we've been talking about investing, as you say, 100 million euros: 80 million plus 20 this year. But I gave him a figure that, if you do the numbers!... Those 121 concentrations already have 95% of the investment completed. The final job remains, which is not an investment issue, and there are administrative obstacles. I told him, but I'll explain again, that I have no problem. In 2015, there's a change in mortgage legislation at the national level that is an important draw, because it says that the farm data, that is, the physical reality, the plans, have to be fully adapted to what the titles put. This forces us to do precision work so we can make adaptations and concentrations that have the same plans 20 years ago. It's a very expensive and very laborious job, which is what has made it difficult for us to move forward in this last phase. But what we've been doing over these years is finishing all the roads, all the planning we needed from the partial mergers. That is why I repeat to you — and it is believed — that we have 95% of the investment already made at these partial concentrations. Of course we have a firm commitment to mergers. These commitments are of no use if they're not associated with money. So this year 2020 we're investing the 20 million euros that allow us to close the mergers budget. And from here, since we already have 95% of the investment, what we have to do is agree with the notaries and registrators in order to speed up the delivery of the titles. And I tell you: the administrative completion of the mergers, that is, to agree, will be given virtually all of them in this legislation according to the commitment we have. And we will deliver titles in as many mergers as possible always as this administrative trap — which I'm explaining to you — allows us to do so and that we can ascertain in an area that no longer corresponds to the administration as the notaries and the registrators are. For me, and answering the midwife, I would tell her that the rural is moving, the rural is dynamic, the rural is alive. And that's why we all have to work to make our country a place where you can live and you can live well. And in these concentration processes — and we will continue to bet on them because we will start and decree new partial mergers — we will go on, without any doubt, betting. You, ladies and gentlemen, continue on that line to deny the progress of our rural community. We will continue to solve the problems of our farmers, farmers and forestry, in this case providing them with the territorial base they need, with our commitment that I have shown with the partial mergers and also thanks to the People's Party with the Law of Recovery and Set in Value of Land in Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u385	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera and six other Members of the G.P. Galician populaire, on the balance made by the Government of Greece of the management of the jury throughout 2019
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u386	Question by Mrs Teresa Egerique Mosquera of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u387	President. Good afternoon, Counselor. The electoral program with which the Galician People's Party obtained the majority confidence of Greek citizenship gathered specific commitments with our fleet of casualties. For example, he stated in a paragraph directly extracted from the electoral programme: "We shall advance, by the hand of the State administration, in the improvement of quota management in the internal environment, so as to avoid premature or particularly serious consumption by the time of closure, by promoting an annual distribution as equitable and beneficial as possible in terms of marketing, specifically in the framework of the activity of the bass and coast fleet in which quotas are shared." Well, the fleet of the Greek siege, made up of one hundred and fifty units, decided by most in June 2019 to set a top for the catches of jure all year round. The 750 kilograms limit per crew member wrapped and day also served to maintain an acceptable price level by not flooding the market with the species. In spite of the fact that the agreement was not unanimous, the measure has as its main objective to preserve the available quota and hence the locker itself. This is a measure that will affect this whole segment, because in the face of the scarcity of other species, the jury becomes the main objective of the sector, especially from summer to summer, when the sardine is expected to enter the fence. The Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food has published the resolutions establishing the criteria for the management in 2019 of the maximum quantities of interest — it was in August —: Resolution of 1 August 2019, of the stock of the northern jure between the various fleets and quays; Resolution of 1 August 2019, of the stocks of fürle of Fisterra towards the south and of the Jury of Cantabrian by the fleet, and Resolution of 7 August 2019, of the stock of the northern jure which can be fished in ICES zone VIIIc. The jury, therefore, for years, has been the main resource of the bass fleet. And as for the year, according to the Fisheries Technology Platform, he downloaded 7,100 tons. These captures were made both by the siege and by the drag, and they reached a value of 7.8 million euros. On top of that, with the resolutions we talked about and the final data, Counselor, we asked him, "What balance do you make of the management of the jury in 2019?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u388	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Answer from the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u389	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Egerique, perhaps the definition I can quickly answer your question is that my evaluation is positive with options for improvement, and I say "positive" because the data so tell us. You were talking about discharges, and I can update the data to you: today the discharges of jurelo in the Greek ports are 35.400 tons and a billing of nearly twenty-six million euros — this up to October. And this data gives a significant improvement and increase both in the annual average of the last 15 years and in the previous year. So we have to point out that as far as 2018 this figure has risen by 27 percent in captures and half of the last three flashes — i.e. in the last three years — by 67 percent more. On the other hand, on the matter of billing, the bill rose by 15 percent compared to last year, and by almost 50 percent compared to the average of the last fifteen. But when I say positive with improvement options, I go where you want to focus on the topic, which is important to take advantage of the margins we have to improve. I mean, we have to be able to rationalize catches and discharges to make an adjustment between supply and demand, so we can increase the average price of the interest, because it's important that our fishermen have to fish, but most importantly we know how to value that product that they get from the natural environment. So both the sector and the administrations have to be able to achieve that principle, we have to take advantage of all the legal tools available to us to do this work in a homogeneous manner throughout the building hall; it is not good for just an autonomous community to make those decisions. We must also be able to rationalize the use of wastes, especially in order to get this species — which, as you said, is as important for the fleet of minor arts as for the fleet of the siege — to have a proper exploitation, especially in the light of what can be seen above us by 2020. For now, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u390	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u391	Thank you for your explanation, Counselor, for your profusion of data offered, because I didn't have them all up-to-date. I thought they were good, but still the ones you gave today are better and always show the rigour you work for. We've also checked it out in the interpellation and the knowledge that you have in the sector. Thank you very much, Counselor, also for continuing to think about the sector, in addition especially knowing that many of the issues are not in their hands for not being of their competition, but always making proposals in a positive way. Thanks also for defending that fleet and improving management in Madrid, making rational use of resources and rational fishing. We must stop and avoid cases like that of the closure and reopening of the pretty one that came up very recently. And we must always defend the way we have to fish here in Galicia and the sustainable way, what we've been doing for years and what you've been defending in Brussels and Madrid for years. Thank you very much, Counselor, for thinking about the future. He spoke of 2020 and there is a proposal for cutting the quotas of this species both in Cantabria and in Fisterra towards the south. And you've always thought about the future -- and I'm also saying this because I'm talking about 2009 -- that is, you're doing a job always thinking about the future, and today you're talking about it. It seems that the sector is asking for that, but after consultations with them on the subject of quota cuts we know they were doing it with safeguard clauses. So we even know that before the Central Government sent people to those meetings and recently stopped sending them. So we ask: whether in Madrid or in the Central Government they are acting this way, what will Galicia do in this case, Mrs. Quintana? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u392	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Close this question, Counselor of the Sea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u393	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Egerique, speaking of the future, you know that at a certain point we were accused of making a fishing opportunities deal that was detrimental to Galicia. Well, given the data we've just quoted, I can tell you that the year that most cash discharges were made in Galicia was 22 million pounds, and now we're about 35 million pounds. Those are the prospects of bad wishes that some of them did what our negotiations were. However, we do have a problem that is going on for the year 2020, since at the moment the Commission's proposal for the allocation of quotas for the coming year proposes a download of an average of 48 percent for the July, both for the Cantabrian area and for the Fisterra area to the south, while the ICES data even pointed to the Fisterra area to the south an increase of 24 percent. So what we're saying is that the European Commission must not give valid agreement to a regional council of pelagics where the representatives of the Greek fisheries sector themselves who were at that meeting said that this argument is not supported to be a plan that could be implemented, because the only countries that were concerned with that situation were Spain and Portugal, and that it should be these two countries that said what was the way to proceed to make the best possible management of a resource of what, so believes the ICES, we are making an exploitation that is already in the most sustainable performance. I mean, what's Galicia gonna do? Well, Galicia will keep working, as we've always seen. In this case we are already drawing up socio-economic impact tables that we will provide both to the Central Government and Brussels. Next week we will travel to a meeting in the General Secretariat of Fisheries and also in the Ministry. Yesterday we convened the commissions of siege and trawling of the Galego Fisheries Council, where we unanimously agreed to make this approach and this demand both to the Central Government and to Brussels. This is: Galicia will continue to provide all the necessary data to ensure that the Welsh fishing sector continues to go further every day, as we have seen it believing since 2009 that we have reached the government. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u394	Thank you, Counselor. Well, before firing Mr. Fernández Leicega's designation as Senator of the Autonomous Community, two communications that I wanted to transfer to all Members and Members: First, we're in vaccination period. I recommend you get vaccinated, get vaccinated! Because it's also the message that must be transferred to society. [[Murmurs.]] It's good to be vaccinated. Then I ask all of you, as far as possible, to vaccinate. In the Medical Service are the available vaccines. So it's a prayer that's good for society. Secondly, tomorrow we're going to present Parliament's art collection, a work done and I think it's interesting. It's time we catalogued what we have here! Tomorrow he'll introduce himself. There are only four Members, and I would like to say that tomorrow everyone who has here more or less a piece of work — most of them — will be busy a little at 6:30 p.m. So I'm asking for an effort, if possible. And now yes, we're going to fire Mr. Leicega. That's why we're going to give a brief round of interventions. We start with Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u395	Well, by taking advantage of the opportunity given to us by the House, I would like to say goodbye to Mr Leicega, Mr Xaquín's companion, more than an adversary during the parliamentary sessions of this legislation. And thank you, too, for the good sessions and for the good parliamentary debate, as well as for how much I, in particular, learned about Galicia's public economy. I also wish you luck on the new road to defend the interests of the whole country and its people, which I am sure, since Marea, we are sure that you will do so with great intelligence and a great deal of boldness in defending the common good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u396	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u397	Well, we, from the BNG Parliamentary Group, the first thing we want to say is that we understand that this is not a farewell, because Mr. Leicega is opening a new stage in his life. It is true that in this parliament we are going to lose a Member who always defended his positions with great passion, with whom we had encounters and clashes, as is normal in politics. But I believe that this is also part of what enriches us, and it makes us also more bold for others to be able to defend our positions, and above all to strengthen the democratic system. I also say that it seems to us that this leap or non-stamp, that change of perspective, has a responsibility added to the fact that it really goes there as the representative of the Galician Parliament. I think that's a plus when it comes to how one exercises responsibility in an institution, on the other hand, that needs a little prestige. And, above all, what we want is that you have a lot of success and that those successes are really successful for all the Greeks and the Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u398	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Mr. Lake.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u399	Well, not a good-bye, but a good-bye later, as Valeriano said yesterday. I've known Thursdays for forty years, when he was a bat that entered college and I was already a veteran about to go out. Not forty years, that I've met and met with Leiceaga many times in different fields. The Galician Parliament undoubtedly loses one of the most qualified people we have here. Leiceaga is one of the best economists in the country, one of the best political leaders in the country. He'll take that to the Senate. In that sense, I voted in favour of Leiceaga because I think it will be a great senator representing the progressive ideas of this country. But, without a doubt, we're going to miss him in this chamber, basically because his contribution — as the people who preceded me — is relevant. I end with a wish: games, let's be a way back and forth.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u400	Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u401	Well, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and as Secretary General of the PSdeG-PSOE, the fact is that we have to highlight the political task done by Xoaquín Fernández Leiceaga, by Xocas, along a long journey. His head at the service of the country, his commitment and his fairness, his task and parliamentary art here in this German Parliament, I think it's an example of how one can work, each from different perspectives, to dignify and make a country. For us, Xoaquín Fernández Leicea does not today make a farewell, but rather changes of place and space to remain a fundamental part of our political work, and to do so fulfilling beyond all the debates that we have these days and the typical issues that are said in the political sphere, to sincerely acknowledge a great political work done and also to fulfill what I have said on many occasions: Xoaquín is and will be wherever he wants to be. He does not remain in the Parliamentary House because he thinks he must be somewhere else. But it must also be said that this is your second stage in the German Parliament, and it is also true that there are not two without three, so time will tell where it can be. All the thanks and gratitude to him and to the rest of the groups who spoke and who then spoke to the value of the task, commitment and work in the service of Galicia from the progressive scope of a reference economist, an exceptional politician and a magnificent parliamentary officer. Thank you, Xoaquín, for your work.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u402	Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u403	Well, ladies and gentlemen, I must first admit that to me it is a particularly strange feeling to have to fire Xoaquín Fernández Leicega, because life, which is capricious, has taken us together to many places, even before I had met Mr. Lago. Together we have been in the sea of Noia, in many sports camps, in the classes of the University of Santiago and, lately, in this parliament. [[Laughter]] I was telling you the other day, when I told you that it would probably be the last time we came into the rostrum and nothing but the rostrum, that we'll still be in the rostrum. I'm sure we will, and it will be a personal pleasure. What happens is that today I am not actually firing a friend, but a political rival who closes a stage, and it became clear that it is a stage, not closing it at all stages, a stage in the Galician Parliament. Recently, The Economist published or provided information of these curious people, which is that since the 19th century in the world there have been 300 wars between countries, and none of them were between two countries that had democracy with opposition. This is the important thing: there was opposition. Because democracy actually works if there is an opposition. As Jorge Wagensberg said, democracy is the most rational of all systems because it practices the scientific method. The scientific method that is based on objectivity, intelligibility and dialectics. And you certainly honored this camera because it has done, at this stage it closes, its opposition objectively, intelligible, that is, intelligently, and, of course, with a dialectic that itself — as it has been said — has been inspiring to its political rivals. And that's precisely why the People's Parliamentary Group has respect for it, as well as the wish shared by all of us that it will continue to do what it has done in this chamber in its responsibility in the Senate because — as has already been said — it will be very good for Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u404	I also wish you much luck and thank you for showing us, Mr. Leicega, that defending the legitimate interests of a parliamentary group, your party in this case, is not incompatible with rigor and predisposition to reach agreements, as you have shown at your stage in this parliament. Thank you for your loyalty, too, and thank you for being an institutional deputy, and I give my faith and thank you on behalf of the whole Bureau. Every time I had to interview you about something that had to do with parliamentary issues, you've always put over this whole institution. And I want to thank you today especially. I wish you much health and good luck and, most importantly, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u405	Well, first of all, I'm almost excited and many thanks to everyone and to everyone from the heart. I was going to say especially to those who are not from my parliamentary group, from my party, but also — who already know what politics is like — I have to thank Gonzalo Caballero for his words, just like everyone else, who know what they do from the heart. [[Laughter]] After listening to Manolo Lago and Pedro Puy, you'll understand that I'm going to the Senate; you're playing, aren't you? Because it's been too many years. [[Laughter]] But I don't do it without getting out of here. More than ten years in the Galician Parliament in two stages is a very important part of my life, not of my political life, but of my life. And the truth is that, in addition to being an autonomous senator, I will be awaiting what is being said, what is said and what is approved in the Galician Parliament and trying to bring to the Senate the concerns and interests and demands that are made from Galicia, as the president said, and always defending the political line of my group or party. I agree with Parliament's great importance. Surely the first European Parliament — as they say — was born in León, not far from here, and of it was part in that case the noble and ecclesiastical dignitaries of Galicia, who at that time represented the groups that were present in parliament. And nine hundred years later we're here with a Galician own Parliament in more democratic conditions. And I support the importance that Parliament has as the place where ideas are opposed, where pluralism can be expressed, and where from there wills are gathered to promote policies for the benefit of all. And I think rationality, that is, language, reason, which is behind the word "parliament," must also be in our political action. I beg your pardon if at some point I have had some behavior that has displeased the various Members, the different groups. I think I've always tried to defend my ideas with the greatest of cordialities. In that sense I take it as an honor that I have never been called to order in this parliament. I'm still in time, but I hope not the minute I'm left. [[Laughter]] And really, thank you very much for all your words and your behavior these years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-20-DSPG139.u406	Ends the session here. Good night, everyone.
