ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u1	Good morning. Let us resume the meeting with the seventh item on the agenda, from questions for the president's oral answer. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Villares Naveira, G.P. of In Marea, on the actions being carried out or planned by the Government of Greece in the face of the new situation of Ferroatlantica
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u2	Mr. Villares Naveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u3	Good morning. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez, the industrial situation in Galicia right now is very alarming. The known data on the evolution of industrial production in recent months are worrying, and the loss of employment is beginning to be dramatic. Only ten days ago, we knew this data: "Galice records the biggest drop in industrial production with the Ferroatlantic and Alcoa crisis," the media said, "with a decrease of 11% in a year, five times more than the state average." They particularly lower the energy and metallurgy sector -- 32% and 31% -- and Galicia accumulates in the year, in the last five months, a negative industrial production rate. The main cause of this industrial debacle is the reduction of production in the electrointensive industries. The consequences are clear and you know them well. First of all, a loss of wealth production, which also leads to the loss of income by the Galician Union in order to be able to make policies of redistribution of wealth, but above all, consequences on employment. This morning we also rose up with another news: "The Greek workers are the most punished by the EREs of the entire state, only behind the Valencians." The specific data, which are data of a public and official nature, are that 2.18 out of every 1,000 workers and workers in Wales are affected by an ERE since the beginning of 2019, that is, twice as much as last year by these dates; only in Alcoa are 375 employees; in Ferroatlantica, 550; in Isowat, 76; or in Poligal —extinctives— 112. And this causes, as you know, anguish to the workers and despair in their families, who don't know if they'll be able to pay the bills by the end of the month, whether they'll be able to pay the mortgage or rent the floor or whether they'll be able to get their daughters and children forward. I mean, a real social drama. At present there is uncertainty whether there will be buyers or not for Alcoa and we have just known, and still lack details, the sale of Ferroatlantica to TPG — which is an investment fund in energy, not in railways, with which it seems that its only interest is the hydroelectric power plants and not industrial production in our country. The question we had to ask him today was what the Government of the United States does. But already during these days the councillor himself claimed that he was the Government of the Union looking forward, particularly in this operation, to see what was going on. We think — and with us the workers — that the function of a government like you is not simply to be expected, but also to take the initiative, to take the political initiative, which for us means, in the case of Ferroatlantica, to send a clear message that all the terms of the concession agreed on their day will be fulfilled and that they were recalled in a judgement of the High Court of Justice of Galicia of 1996 and also with the viability of the industry linked to hydroelectric production. And secondly, in relation to Alcoa, to exercise industry competence and seek out potential buyers, as the Asturian Government is doing. This was reminded by the representatives of the workers to yourself at the demonstration on Saturday in the Coruña. There were representatives of the People's Party. And the representatives of the workers and the workers remembered this precisely, the active, proactive attitude of the Asturian Government in the search for buyers in markets and businesses at the international level, something that could be doing perfectly well for the Galician Union. Secondly, to exercise the political initiative also so that the sector will be regulated from the state in such a way that it will end with the electric oligopolie which is exacerbating the production of electrointensives and, in passing — but not only laterally, but mainly also — that they will end up with the scam in receipt of the light that families suffer, that consumers suffer at the end of the month. The question was clear: what are they doing? The counsellor answered this week: be waiting. And we ask them, apart from being expecting, to take the initiative by demanding here and sending a clear message of compliance with the conditions to the new buyer of Ferroatlantics, exercising the competences in industry, seeking buyers for Alcoa and, thirdly, political initiative so that solutions to the regulation of the electricity market that undermine the receipt of the light of families and of the electro-intensive companies are instigated from Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u4	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Villares, I disagree with you about the industrial situation in Galicia. And I disagree because they don't agree with employee data, membership data or the main industrial sectors of the autonomous community. Wages between 2008 and 2018, industrial wages, grew by 21% in Galicia — the average in Spain was 13%. And it has significantly increased the number of undefined employees. Out of every four industrial workers, three have an indefinite contract and more than 95% a full day. If we pick up the membership data for Social Security, 16,000 affiliates have been recovered in industry, for example, since 2014, and today we have 10,000 more affiliates in the industry than we had when we started this last legislation. I therefore do not agree with the diagnosis you make; especially if we take the action of the industry and the behavior of the wind, naval, automotive or forestry industry — unless you want to continue to ruin the forest industry, which seems to be. But I agree with you about Ferroatlantics. I agree with you and I am pleased that you have changed your attitude to the same question of 2017, in which I was told that this government would not defend the workers, that it would not defend the concession and would not defend the industrial plan of Ferroatlantica. As you have checked and all have checked, this government has defended the Ferroatlantic unit — i.e. the unit between hydroelectric power stations and factories — and defended that segregation could not be done and defended industrial activity in the area. And proof of this is that we refuse the authorization to sell the power stations. So much so that we've had an appeal, there's an appeal brought by the company against the Galician Union. Well, what we said we did. And now we are exactly the same, from the point of view of the commitments — with the concession, from the commitment not to segregation and from the commitment to the industrial plan — that we were two years ago. So, Your Honor, I want to tell you that this Government has very clear what it has to do. This government is going to demand the unit of the concession and therefore will not in any case allow the segregation of hydroelectric power stations on the one hand and the factories on the other. That's a unit, hydroelectric power plants and factories. [[Applause]] This government will continue to work as it has so far, complimenting and requesting that no company inculcate or partially or partially comply with the commitments with Galicia. That's why, Your Honor, I want to reassure you about these commitments. It's our way of acting, it's our line of action. To ensure the continuity of industrial activity, to ensure the unity of power stations and factories and to require an industrial plan — whether or not to buy, to believe or not to definitely believe the purchase — is the proposal of the Galician Council — and within a transparent dialogue with mayors and trade union organisations. This is how we did it in 2017 and so we will continue to do it in 2019. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u6	Thank you, President. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u7	Well, I just gave you a series of official data, they're public and they're known all over the world. The evolution that you have just mentioned since 2008 cannot prevent you from seeing what evolution is going on in the year and what is the trend change that is suffering from the Galician industry, particularly the electro-intensive industry. The data are clear: the fall in the industrial production index is 11.4% compared to 2% of the state average. Well, let's see how good industry is if industrial production falls! There are things that are obvious and therefore you should be involved in a solution, at least in this situation, to prevent the trend from continuing. Five months after a negative rate, we understand that they're not to show satisfaction, and therefore we have to get hands on the work to make this different. Also, about the ERE data, the workers and the workers who are affected, what I've been talking about right now, they don't live from the data in 2008 or from the data in 2009 or from the following years, they live from the current situation, which is a worrying situation. So we ask him for proactivity in this regard. And in relation to Ferroatlantics, one thing should remember: that the link between electrical jump and industrial production and the maintenance of industry on the Death Coast is not only the formal maintenance of a factory, but the maintenance of jobs. Over the last 20 years, 41% of job losses have occurred on the Death Coast. The activity was formally maintained but with fewer workers. We would not like the new company, which does not — it seems — to have any kind of dedication to that industrial field, only in the energy field, to be left with an oven that symbolicly throws a little smoke but that had virtually no workers, unlike what was happening in these years. So we ask them to get involved. We think, Mr President, that you lose a chance here now — and you still have a turn to be able to commit — to the defense of our country's industry, both intensive and general industry. And he's got autonomic skills. In the field of railways, what we are talking about is that commitment to maintaining employment. And also, in order to be able to make politics with the energy derived from electrical jumps, the possibility of recovery of expired or expired hydroelectric concessions. You have your chances. Some, as announced here yesterday, will occur in the medium term, or in the long term, but now is the time to establish the legal and technical conditions in order to be able to establish a public agency or a public hydraulic jump energy company in our country. And that could be something within the competence of the Galician Union. You could also commit yourself to the state-wide initiatives, even if they are the responsibility of the state, and are installed from here, well from this House, well from its Government, to the creation of the tariff, which, as you know, requires a change in the conditions of electrical auctions and which has already taken place in France, which has been endorsed by the European Union, which means that it will cost almost half the cost of mega-hours. This would make the electro-intensive industry of our country viable, the maintenance of jobs and, therefore, the creation of wealth. You have a chance to commit. Do it now on this replica shift. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u8	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Close the question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u9	Mr. Villares, for several weeks now, we have been studying the evolution of the gross domestic product of the first quarter of 2019 at the Board of Trustees, and we believed that Galicia was still growing above the European average by 2.3%. But we already warned that we had two problems in the industrial sector: the problem of Alcoa and the problem of Ferroatlantics. And it also now adds the problem of Navantia-Fene, which is for the next few months practically without workload, and with frigates that are still on paper. Your Honor, I am surprised that you come here to ask me for accounts of the electrointensive status, which is exactly what is behind all these problems of Alcohol and also, in part, of the problems of Ferroatlantics. And I'm surprised, Your Honor, because yesterday I've been observing the reactions of political leaders in the central government and I've got a picture of their political leader, Mr. Secretary General of Podemos, who is implementing a government of cooperation with the central government. You know, exactly as I know, that the statute of electrointensive, that the price of energy, the auctions of interruptability, are exclusive competition from the Government of Spain. And that's why, when you tell me about the French fare, or about the solutions Germany is giving to the electro-intensive companies, I say, don't you guys talk to each other later, don't you talk to the government about what they're going to be part of? Therefore, Mr. Villares, you should be a little more respectful of the skills and the workers. We're concerned about the 470 families that work in Cee, Dumbria and Sabón, that's our concern. And, as it is our concern, we've been telling the Central Government for months now, this one where you're going to participate in the next few weeks, which are playing with the Alcoa workers, who are playing with the Ferroatlantic workers, who are playing with the Megasa workers. And we're continually asking him that the auction of interruptability went down both in the 40 blocks... and that they lied to us -- I say, they lied -- saying, before the municipal elections, that Alcoa-La Coruña could go up to auction, to tell us exactly after the municipal elections that Alcoa-La Coruña couldn't compete in the auction, and therefore it's still priceless for its functionality. That's why I shouldn't lie to the workers but tell the workers the truth. Look, the only allies that has Alcoa-La Coruña, that has Ferroatlantica and that has Megasa is the Union of Galicia, the only allies, the only ones, Your Honor! Whoever brought the workers' voice to the Ministry of Industry was the Council of Galicia. [[Applause]] And I am very surprised that you, who will be part of the next weeks of the Government of Spain, come here to talk about the powers that the Government of Spain has and to charge the competences to the only public administration that is defending the workers of Alcoa, the workers of Ferroatlantica and the workers of Megasa. That's why, Mr. Villares, I hope they don't take the hair to the 470 families, both those of Sabon and those of Cee and Dumbria and more to the families of Alcoa. Look, Mr Villares, if we ever agree, as is the case with defending an electrointensive status for the Greek companies and the rest of the Spanish companies, let us agree. But don't try, don't try, Your Honor, to be responsible for the only public administration that's defending the workers' interests. Don't try to do it, Mr. Villares, because that would be lying to people. And I think that in a parliament you can't lie — anywhere, but perhaps in a parliament in a more obvious way. That's why, Mr. Villares, don't worry about it. We know what we have to do and we're doing it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u11	And we're drawing attention to the fact that this government lied to the workers before the elections. And I'd like them not to lie after the election. And in that government of cooperation, collaboration, or whatever you want to call, do a little of your work and look at the workers' faces, don't take the hair of the workers hiding behind the only public administration that's defending the workers. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the industrial crisis in Galicia, which puts hundreds of jobs at risk
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u13	You have the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u14	Thank you very much. Let me begin, precisely, by greeting the workers. Because we can look them in the eye because we've been defending them over the course of time, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] And I want to start by showing you this graph. Surely you, as the statistics don't matter, or what the INE says, it happens. This is the fall of industrial production in Galicia that we've been in for the past year. It's the portrait of that industrial crisis that you deny, but of which, even if you try to slip the bulk, it's directly responsible, Mr. Feijóo. Because Galicia is the territory that records the biggest industrial fall in the entire Spanish state. And let the president of the board come and say this isn't about him, because what he's telling us is that the board, which has exclusive competences in industry, washes its hands like Pontius Pilates. That's what you came to tell us today, Mr. Feijóo. And, above all, you don't want to take responsibility because, look, you're responsible for the electrical scam this country is experiencing, for the real nonsense that, being big electricity producers, we have jobs at risk. And you support this system that clearly means a policeman for this country. [[Applause]] And I want to tell you today about the portrait of some companies of this industrial crisis that this country is experiencing. The first one is Poligal, a company that decided this Saturday to fire 112 workers with the passivity of the board. And we're asking the Board to act, to look for a buyer, because Polygal has a future if the Board really involves itself. We want, Mr. Feijóo, also to talk about Ferroatlantics, because we are very concerned about your intervention right now, Mr. Feijóo. You know segregation is illegal, but segregation is illegal when you want to separate the entire ferroalloy process from the hydroelectrics. And right now Villar Mir — this businessman, I remind him, linked to the corruption of the People's Party — what he wants to consume is the segregation of two plants to do an operation in which he's going to try to sell hydroelectric production and put at risk the future of this company and the future of the Death Coast. You, two years ago, were involved in immense social pressure on the Death Coast, and you didn't dare authorize that ball. And what you have to tell us today, looking into the eyes of workers and workers, is whether you're going to allow Villar Mir's ballazing or whether you're going to defend the interests of the Death Coast. Say it clearly. [[Applause]] And finally, let me tell you about Alcoa. Because, look, there's fifteen days left and we have a company on the edge of the abyss. Let me give you a touch of realism. What we have here is the People's Party, with Mr. Feijó in the head, and the Socialist Party, with Mr. Sánchez in the head, who are repeating exactly the same scheme: deceiving the workers and not putting real solutions to the future. Because you're confined to the pim, pam, I was right now to the Government of Madrid alone and exclusively because they don't rule their own. But you know that the situation with the electrointensives derives from a framework that has been approved by the People's Party and that you support it, Mr. Feijóo. And that's why we're worried about it. In 15 days, Alcoa workers and workers in the Coruña can see in the situation that there is no buyer. [[Applause]] And in that situation, what are you going to do, Mr. Feijóo? We want to make a very concrete proposal. If on June 30 there is no buyer to take over the Alcoa situation in the Coruña, then the Union will lead an operation to launch the public acquisition of the Alcoa factory in the Coruña to guarantee employment. It is clear that there is a need for a stable energy framework, and since Galicia we have been able to propose it in 2016...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u15	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u16	...but you prayed for the interests of the electricians and their party in Madrid. So we're telling you to take this tending hand you've got in the BNG because in this country there's a lot at stake. For once he shows us that he's not here to oppose the opposition, or to oppose the central government just because he's not in Madrid, and he's acting as president of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u18	Very interesting, Mrs. Pontón. We never denied that the industrial production index would fall. What surprises me is that you don't know how the industrial production index is composed. There's a very important part of power generation. I suppose it won't be the Government's fault if there was less or more hydroelectric production this year in Galicia, I suppose. And the other side — I have just answered your colleague from En Marea — is indeed due to metallurgical industries, and in particular to Alcoa, Ferroatlantica and Navantia-Fene. We already said that, but several weeks ago. I'm glad you're taking the industrial production indices to believe that Galicia is one of the autonomous communities with higher industrial production rates in recent years. And I'm surprised you don't accept that in the last decade, or rather, since the last legislation, since 2016, we've increased 10,000 jobs in the industrial sector. All this sort of thing you don't say or care about. I'm surprised you're not in favour of the 2,500 jobs anymore in the automotive sector. I'm surprised, Your Honor, that you don't say we're on the record of the shipbuilding industry. And I'm more surprised that BNG talks about industrial policy. That's surprising. Mrs. Pontón, the same party that's going to throw all the people in the forest sector, the port of Marín and Ence on the street are you talking about industrial production and industrial sensitivity with Galicia? Look, Mrs. Pontón, ask me a question. Ask what we're going to do in 15 days if there's no buyer for Alcoa. We have it clear: to defend the workers. You, agree with the Spanish Socialist Workers Party in all public administrations. That's the big difference: defending Galicia, defending the workers, and agreeing with the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. [[Applause]] Look, Mrs. Pontón, there's been a long time since I haven't seen this Galego Nationalist Block, a BNG who's been quiet all this time of the municipal elections, knowing that they're taking care of all the Alcoa workers; a BNG who's been quiet knowing that the Alcoa workers are currently having a dramatic situation; a BNG who's now dealing with the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, the same as he lied to the Alcoa workers with the Electrointensiveness and Interoperability Statute; a BNG, who's committed, nothing more and nothing less, that Alcoa has closed when you have agreed to the Spanish Socialist Workers Party in the Coruña. Look, Mrs. Pontón, at lessons to defend the workers, none. Here the only ones we're defending the workers, the only ones we've been defending Alcoa, in front of Rajoy's government and in front of Pedro Sánchez's government, is the People's Party of Galicia. We get it all the time. [[Applause]] I'm surprised you're now guessing exactly what you're not doing. Look, Your Honor, do you know that since Mr. Sánchez is here, the price of light has risen and the price of 2018 light has been the highest since 1998? Do you know that interruptability auctions are decreasing any future capacity of Alcoa in the Coruña? Do you know they're taking our hair saying there's a new buyer and that buyer demands a price from the previous light and that price from the light doesn't exist? Do you know that new buyer won't continue with the electrointensive production of Alcoa in the Coruña? Do you know that's supposed to put more than 50% of the template in the street? You know the BNG exactly what I just said, and what the BNG is going to do, not in 15 days, but in a few days, is deal with the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party in all corporations, win or lose the election. That's why, Mrs. Pontón, lessons in defending the Alcoa workers, none. I don't care if you get behind the IGC sign. You're dealing with those who will close Alcoa on Saturday and Sunday...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u19	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u20	...and they're now in front of the workers and I'm defending their job. You, Mrs. Ana Pontón, have no legitimacy to keep talking about either Alcoa or Ferroatlantic. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u21	Thank you, President. Mrs. Pontón's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u22	Mr. Feijóo, now he gives meats to whom he can talk and who he can't. We speak here because the citizens vote for us to be defending their interests and will not give us meats or tell us what legitimacy is to speak. [[Applause]] Of course, I think you're being hit a lot, with those agreements with VOX, the antidemocratic one, because it seems, Mr. Feijóo, that bothers you that we're here. I'm sorry to see a president of the board with a portrait like what you just did to yourself here. We have exclusive industry competences, but Junta is not responsible for any of the problems this country has. Look, if you're not able to put solutions to the industry in this country, go home, do a favor to the Greeks and the Greeks and the industry in this country. And, of course, don't come up with arguments that let it go. I'd say it's almost ridiculous, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Is the problem of electrointensives resolved at the municipal level? You're telling us exactly that. Besides, they accuse us of wanting to deal with the PSOE. I think you're desperate to throw pacts at the PSOE in Ourense, Mr. Feijóo. Sacrific Baltar if you think that this way there is a solution for Alcoa. [[Applause]] But we're going to be a little serious, because I think the workers and workers in this country deserve respect and deserve a president who gives his face and doesn't come here throwing balloons out. Because, look, if you care so much about the price of energy, let's deal with a Welsh electric tariff, and we'll put a proposal to the state of an electrointensive tariff, a stable rate. [[Applause]] We can do it from here, but you've always vetoed this alternative. So don't come and teach us lessons. Above all, when we know the ties of the People's Party to the electrics, please, Mr Feijóo, a little respect! And he didn't tell us anything about what was important. About Ferroatlantica, Mr Feijóo, will you or will you not allow the law fraud that Villar Mir wants to commit? Tell us, because the answer is very easy and can't keep sliding the bulk. Villar Mir wants to give a ball with an operation that is fraudulent from a legal point of view, because the activities cannot be segregated, which is what he's doing with Soap. Are you going to let him, yes or no? Because the decision depends directly on you. And then he doesn't tell us anything. About Alcoa we make a proposal for the future. Tell us what the president of the board will do if there's no buyer on June 30. What are you going to do? Throwing pestilences against Madrid? And what are you going to tell the Alcoa workers? What we ask is that the Junta assumes the commitment to lead Alcoa's public acquisition in the Coruña if that situation happens on June 30th. And here too you can give us a very clear answer. And finally, if I may be allowed by the president, I also wanted to mention Ence. Who is jeopardizing the industrial sector linked to Ence is the People's Party and the company itself, because they don't want to assume the reality that Ence can't continue in the stream of Pontevedra. And we've actually just had some municipal elections... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u23	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u24	...a number of municipal elections that the People's Party and the Ence have proposed as a plebiscite about their continuity in the stream and have suddenly lost. So what we ask of you is to return to the 2009 Feijóo to the Feijóo that said in the full economic crisis that it was possible to move Ence. [[Applause]] It was possible to transfer Ence in 2009 and it is possible to transfer it in 2019. Don't be responsible for risking...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Time's up. Close the question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, Mrs. Pontón, for reminding me that you speak here because you vote for them. I think it's a memory that has a broad democratic backing. Indeed, Your Honor, and, as we are voted to govern Galicia, we will defend Galicia. And defending Galicia is defending Alcoa. I've been president of the Council of Galicia and Alcoa for ten years. I've never been in the situation since the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party is ruling in Spain, never! In ten years, with economic crisis, with economic recession, with difficulties, we always go ahead with the affairs of Alcoa. Now you're about to close up in the Coruña, and do you imply any responsibility for this government? [[Laughter]] Look, Mrs. Pontón, as you will understand, it is not reasonable to continue speaking in these terms with a person who doesn't even accept that the only valet and the only ally of the Alcoa workers is the People's Party of Galicia. BNG, not anymore, Mrs. Pontón, not anymore. [[Applause]] No, Your Honor. [[Applause]] You're talking about the Welsh electric fare, trying to fool everyone again, knowing that there's no electric fare anywhere in a special way, and you're talking about a Basque matter. Well, look, there's no Basque fare. And in fact, there are several companies in Galicia that are benefiting from that rate for all Spanish companies, where there are many companies in Euskadi, some companies in Galicia and I suppose some other places. Look, about Soap, what do you think of if we talk to the Soap company committee, and not through Mrs. Pontón, but through the Soap company committee — which of course does not agree with your proposals —? You put your political and trade union interests ahead of the workers' interests. And for us, in the interests of the workers, there is neither political interest nor trade union interests, Mrs. Pontón. [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, tell me about energy, when you're in agreement with the closure of Galician energy sources. Yes, with the closure of Meirama, you agree. Oh, so with the closure of Meirama, you don't agree. [[Murmurs.]] At Marea if you agree. Oh, all right, and the PSOE agrees, too. [[Murmurs.]] That is, the PSOE wants to close Meirama, the Tides want to close Meirama and the BNG doesn't want to close Meirama. Well, it's clear, therefore, the energy policy of the tripartite. [[Laughter]] Let's keep moving, Your Honor. You're supporting the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party—even if you say, "No," in the corporations. But it's the same party that's going to climb the diesel to all the Greek workers. I guess later you won't make me say why you don't defend the Greek workers when they get their government partner up the diesel. You, ladies and gentlemen, are dealing with a party that lied to us in the last year about which it would approve an electrointensive status for companies before the municipal elections. You're supporting him, and you're also supporting a government that said Alcoa could go to the interruptability auction. The auction is done right after the municipal elections and they don't let themselves go to the interruptability auction. Look, Your Honor, in 2017 the Government of the People's Party devoted more than 500 million euros to interruptability, i.e. to lowering the rate of companies like Alcoa. And in 2018 PSOE dropped it by 40%, from 525 million to 315, a 40% drop. In the first half of the year 2019, the interruption has already fallen to 100 million euros with the PSOE — yes, Your Honor; take note, Mrs Pontón — and the 40th auction blocks, which was what interested Alcoa, practically disappeared. And if it was little, the Alcoa-La Coruña won't let him participate, and now they're fooling us with what they have an offer and that the possible buyer won't have any decrease in cost through the interruptability to operate with Alcoa. And do you hold me responsible when I've been reporting this fallacy for months? You're responsible for the only government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u27	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u28	...responsible that he didn't lie to the workers, and that he kept telling the Ministry of Industry that he was fooling everyone. But you can't fool everyone all the time. From next Saturday, the BNG that deals with whoever you want. We're going to continue to deal with Galicia, we're still here defending the Alcoa workers, we're going to continue to defend the families of Ence, we're going to continue to defend, Your Honor, that the families of Ence have the right to arrive at the end of the month, they have the right to a decent salary and they have the right to maintain their jobs. You don't agree. [[Applause]] We agree, and that's why, Your Honor, we defend Alcoa, we defend Ferroatlantics, we defend Cee and Dumbria and the hydroelectric power stations that have to operate together. And we will require the company — this or any — an industrial plan to activate all the factories in Cee and Dumbria. We will continue to defend Soap, we will continue to defend Reganosa. Your Honor, our commitment is to Galicia, our commitment is not to the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u29	Thank you, President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga of G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the impulse by the Government of Galicia, with due diligence, of the institutional activity of the Union of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u30	Mr. Leicega has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u31	Good morning, Mr. Núñez Feijó. We have been dealing with the serious social, economic and territorial imbalances in Galicia, for example, the very serious demographic regression that we have been dealing with here; for example, the difficulties in producing jobs in volume and quality — we have not yet recovered the job before the crisis in these ten years in which you have ruled — for example, the deterioration of basic public services such as health, in particular primary care, or, for example, the growing territorial polarization that is suffering from our territory and which leaves large areas and many very badly impoverished people. That's one of the other things. And his government is not in a position to give an effective response to these imbalances, making it harder, because of that paralysis, the lives of many people. Today I believe that his government is a scourge for reforms that Galicia needs. Look, if we don't take budget and accompaniment laws into account, they only pushed six bills. And we've already taken two-thirds of the exhausted legislation. In the legislative calendar for 2018 they had eleven bills. We only dealt with three, and two of these were already on the 2017 legislative calendar. No legislative calendar for 2019. It'll be so as not to fail to do so. But at the same time, the absence of a legislative calendar means that you do not have projects and you are also failing to comply with the rule. And from the laws of 2011, there are two, for example, that are extremely important, the Employment Act and the Demographic Impulse Law, of which there is no news. And there is no news that they will not be able to be dealt with completely before 2020 and therefore that they will hardly have any effect during all this legislation. Absolute majority, a lost legislation, when they were promised these laws that were in your program, and they're telling us that you are the great promise to Galicia. And things don't end here. Look, the appointment of autonomic senators is paralysed to subordinate it to the inner balances of the People's Party. We could have done it more than a month ago, but it's not. And if you don't accept this argument, give us a convincing explanation of why you don't bring the proposals to Parliament. The People's Valdoria, or the presidency of the Economic and Social Council, in practice, are in an interim position. The presidency of the Social Council of the University of Santiago, where we are going to ask a question today, has been paralyzed for more than a year. And you just appointed, a year later, a person for the Social Council of the University of Coruña. The Galician Radio and Television Company is with an acting director general for too long, when we needed a new project with a new direction to modernize the company. This is the summary: it is a legislative tone, it is paralysed in the appointments needed to promote the reforms that Galicia needs and parliamentary paralysis, of which we will then speak. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, you and your government are becoming a retardation force of progress, a retardation force of the growth of reforms that Galicia needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u32	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Leicega. To really listen to the spokesman of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party talk about instability and talk about blockade is, at least, sarcastic. But, Mr. Leicega, do you really, with what it looks like, can you from that bench of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party talk about instability or blocking after the last year of glory that the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party gave to all the Greeks and, consequently, to all Spaniards? Mr. Leicega, can you really talk about these kinds of issues? [[Applause]] It's, at least, surprising. But, Mr. Leicega, you speak of the senators, the valet, radio and television... but don't you know that these, exactly, are the things that depend on Parliament and Parliamentary agreements between the political forces, not the Council of Galicia? Yes, Your Honor! [[Murmurs.]] By the way, about the appointment of senators, do you really want to take advantage of an internal, legitimate discussion that has the Tides so they can't appoint a senator and thus try to get a senator from the Socialist Party of Galicia? Really, Your Honor, is that what you want to do? [[Applause]] Please, Your Honor, please! [[Strong murmurers.]] How can it be said that we are late in the senators when we are listening to other groups who, in the exercise of their legitimate representation, are trying to concreteize the figure of the senator who represents them? Do you really consider it a delay in appointing senators when none of the twelve autonomous communities has appointed senators? Does that really concern you when there's not even central government in Spain? Do you really care when there's not even a government, to name the senators? [[Murmurs.]] But don't worry, don't worry, that we don't have any trouble with the senators. Don't worry. Look, as soon as we know that In Marea has a proposal, they'll come to the House. And in advance... No, I don't know why you're laughing, ladies. [[Strong murmurers.]] You had proposals to appoint members of the Galician Radio and Television Council and we had to vote in favour, because you, most of you, were against. [[Laughter]] If you don't vote for the People's Party, the members of the Galician Radio and Television Council don't leave. It's a surprise, Mr. Leicega! [[Applause]] But, Mr. Leicega, you and the spokesperson of our group stayed, along with the rest of the groups, to make a valet change after the municipal elections. Next Saturday, local corporations are formed. Are you really going to charge us with breaking that covenant now? But, Mr. Leicega, about Galician Radio and Television Company, are you really going to continue to discuss who appointed the director of Galician Radio and Television Company? Do you want me to tell you in the House who was the member of the Socialist Party who called the spokesperson for the People's Party to tell you what the Socialist Party's proposal was, with names and names? Mr. Sánchez Left. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you want me to make this revelation in the Chamber? Mr. Leicega, a little respect for the past, a little respect for the pacts. I've been president of the board for ten years, I've had fifteen spokespersons from opposition groups. What do I have to deal with? Mr. Leicega, it seems soon that you will be replaced. With whom, with you, or with your replacement? Mr. Leiceaga, let's do things normally! Let us respect the parliamentary rules! There's absolutely nothing going on! We have every month of June for you to bring your new leader to the House, for the Tides to realize what your senator proposal is, and I hope that this June we can unlock all these matters. Now we're being asked to keep the pacts. It's at least surprising, Mr. Leicega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u34	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u35	Mr. Leicega, on the legislative calendar, I will have an opportunity to speak in the reply. But did you really review the legislative calendar of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party in the Spanish nation? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u36	Thank you, President. Replica, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u37	It's just surprising that I remember that your group and you didn't vote for Mr Fraga to be an autonomic senator, and we had to vote for him from other groups, for example. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] These are the things that happen in Parliament, Mr Feijóo. Instability, blocking. It seems that the polls refer to the last ten months of the Socialist Party's Government, which do not refer to the form of opposition that you make and the implicit pacts — now already explicit — with other political formations like VOX. [[Applause]] By the way, the most voted list but support for Orense democracy in the Council of Ourense, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] That's what all the media say. There are more questions. Several committees of inquiry are open in this House: an investigation committee on boxes, for example; a research committee on health deficiencies; and they have been paralyzed for months. In case of boxes, two years, two years paralyzed!; and in the case of the Health Research Commission, there are no conclusions, when it is a central issue, with mobilizations, with a great social alarm. And you, with that great reformist impulse that characterizes them, have all of this on stand by. Meanwhile, in the financial world, entities are closed, branches are concentrated, financial segregation takes place, and the savings are finally going out to finance operations that don't have much to do with productive investment. And in what health? They block opposition, legislative and non-legislative initiatives, and they are unable to present reformist conclusions to reform primary care in this House, as their obligation would be. I am summarizing the panorama: legislative atony; these two laws are missing and many others, but these are very relevant, and there is no pre-project circulating, Mr. Nuñez Feijóo, when you yourself say they are central affairs to Galicia. And paralyze in appointments. Look, in the senators we've found ourselves in a situation that's convenient for you to know the whole House. There is a proposal to elect senators in this plenary session, and their group, with opposition from all other opposition groups, withdraws that proposal. So don't come and tell us anything about the other groups. It was a decision of his group at the Speaker's Board and nothing else, Mr. Noñez Feijóo. [[Applause]] That's the problem. [[Applause]] Therefore, paralyse in parliamentary appointments and paralysis... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u38	Finish. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u39	...with investigation committees...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u40	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u41	...that they don't finish their jobs...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u42	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u43	...someone for more than two years. They're in the administration of things, they're in the management of inertia, but they're not in the management of the reforms Galicia needs, Mr. Núñez Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u44	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Close the question. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Leicega. It's true that we voted for the Fraga, we voted for it with v, you cast it with b. He was thrown out of this chamber after he cleanly won the elections with an absolute majority but one scan. Yes, Your Honor, yes, yes. [[Applause]] Yes, Your Honor, they have never been able to win President Fraga, and now, still above, they boast that the Socialist Party has made him a senator. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr Leicega, a little parliamentary dignity and a little democratic dignity. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] That's why we're talking about governments of change from the Socialist Party, governments of change that are that they can't rule the PP anywhere, that's the government of change. The progressive government is not to let rule what it wins. The progressive government is that a president of Galician Union... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u46	Silence! Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u47	...that got the absolute majority but one seat, it was just... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u48	Mrs. Vilan, be quiet. Here we go!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u49	...withdrawn from this Parliament and still above remember. But if you can remember what you want! He says: no, no, it's just that the health committee is not closed. If what the Committee on Health first proposes to do is the Socialist Party, and the Socialist Party withdraws from the Committee on Health as the rest of the opposition. It is interesting that a parliamentary committee cannot be closed on a proposal from the opposition which, after it has been approved, the opposition does not appear and does not make the parliamentary committee. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] But, Mr. Leicega, the Marisquiño's proposal comes from the Tides and the BNG, and the People's Party, who has been accused of concealing the Marisquiño's accident, has no drawback for the commission. Parliamentary response from the Socialist Party: we are not going to that committee. And now you are talking about the paralysis of parliamentary committees! But, Mr. Leicega, I suppose you've been starting to miss your memory lately, I don't think. Look, eleven laws in 2017 — eleven —. It is true that in 2018 we did not reach the legislative calendar that we had committed, but this year 2019 we carried a law per month: the Rehabilitation Act, the Law of Survivor, the Law of Pharmacy, the Law of Natural Heritage and the Law of Digital Administration. And we're going to refer eleven more laws to the House, in total, sixteen laws in the year 2019. I repeat again, do you know how many laws the Socialist Party has passed in the nation in the last year? Is it uncomfortable for you to call a nation in Spain, Your Honor? [[Pause.]] But you're going to make a deal with the BNG on Saturday. [[Murmurs.]] They will be able to speak of the Spanish nation in that pact with the BNG, which I suppose will be written, and will be public, and we will be able to know it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, what a surprise and sarcasm, but how interesting to dedicate yourself to politics! After hearing this from the three-rights pact, the Socialist Party is now proud to compromise with the party that went on the same paper as the Republican Bildu and Left of Catalonia to the European elections. But, Mr. Leicega, that's the political clinical history of each one. I can assure you, with shadows, of mine. I hope you respect yours. Mr. Leicega, do you really have any respect for Parliament? I am here today to pay tribute to your group; to appoint by agreement the Director of the Gallega Radio-Televisión Company; to be notified through a member of the Socialist Party the spokesperson of the People's Party. [[Murmurs.]] Of the three that we proposed, which was what the Socialist Party chose. He hasn't answered that yet. And now tell me that Parliament's appointments have to be speeded up? But, Your Honor, don't you know that your secretary-general has been taking the parliamentary act for two years? It's been two years, Your Honor, to really exercise, as it says it's... [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u50	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u51	...of the leader of the opposition, without even being part of the opposition! Is there any major act of contempt for the Galician Parliament that does not exercise the leadership of the opposition and do not appear in the Galician Parliament since its appointment as Secretary-General of the Socialist Party? Or is he really a General Secretary and you are a [...]?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u52	Finish. Please finish, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u53	Indeed, Mr. Leicega, we assume our biography, certainly full of defects and full of evasiveness, but with a clear approach. And we're going to keep thinking, Mr. Leicega, what we're always thinking: let's let's let's rule what he wins, Mr. Leicega. [[Murmurs.]] When what he earns with the obvious strength of a seat or a deputy for the majority, let us not screw up that situation!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u54	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u55	Now, I'm telling you one thing too, that's all right! It's good enough that the Socialist Party can rule when it likes it, when it loses, and when it suddenly loses, and the People's Party can't rule when it wins...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u57	...and when he wins notoriously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u58	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u59	I tell you, Mr. Leicega...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u60	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u61	...in the name of the Greeks and in the name of democracy, that's all right!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u62	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u63	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u64	We're still on the agenda. Proposals not of law. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Da María de la Concepción Burgo López, on the presentation by the Italian Government, before the end of the first session of 2019, of the procedure designed to evaluate the implementation of the Welsh Network of dynamization of dual vocational training
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u65	There's an amendment from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u66	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. We're going to see if there's a non-law proposition or there's no blockage in the initiatives -- in this case non-legislative, but not a non-law proposition -- by the majority group of the House or not. Our non-law proposal — as you know — refers to a specific modality of vocational training, which is dual vocational training; a modality that has already been established, by real decree, in 2012. In that decree it is intended to lay the foundations for the progressive implementation of dual vocational training in Spain. It dedicates its title III to dual vocational training in the education system, and it is established that in this framework of development the dual vocational training project in the education system has clear objectives. The first of these is to increase the number of people who can obtain post-obligatory secondary education through vocational training. The second is to achieve greater motivation in the student and to reduce early school dropout, — an activity to which we join in an enthusiastic manner. To facilitate labour integration as a result of increased contact with companies, increase the linkage and co-responsibility of the business fabric with vocational training and promote the transfer of knowledge between the productive system and the educational system. And the undesirable objective of getting qualitative and quantitative data to make decisions about improving the quality of vocational training. This Royal Decree, which was published in 2012, sets out that since 2013 the Council of Education has issued various orders for the operation of experimental dual vocational training projects - twelve projects in six courses - which for this parliamentary group is a good indication of the high degree of improvisation that exists in these offers of dual vocational training. If we analyze, on the other hand, the memories of the budgets accompanying the Education Council, we can always find declarations of intentions that are very powerful. And in addition to highly repetitive contonents, which can also be an indicator of the drought of productive capacity to justify budgets. And they always say — I insist, year after year — that it is necessary to make decisive progress in dual vocational training based on greater collaboration and participation by companies in vocational training systems, enabling more active participation by the company in the student's own training process, thus allowing them to know more closely the training that young people receive; each time, that is, more adapted to the demands of the productive sectors and to the specific needs of businesses. All right, well, prose doesn't have any kind of macula. In parallel to this statement of intentions in memoirs, certain amounts are budgeted every year, not very high, it's true. Thus, EUR 400,000 in 2018; EUR 750,000 in 2019, in Programme 422M, for secondary education, vocational training and other teachings. That is, we have a theoretical framework, the memories of budgets; we have the amounts contained in these budgets; and the heads of the Education Council make statements in which they say that the data are the ones in which the intention is to what it is, but the actual registration data seem to consistently contradict that speech. So we find that at the beginning of this course, 2019-2020, the board recognizes that it has 937 students in dual vocational training, when the goal for the 2020-2021 course, that is, within two courses, is to have 5,000. I insist, these are the predictions of the Education Council itself, which always tends to round things up and do things in multiples of a thousand because they're very round in their accounts. The truth is, we're at 20% -- or even 20% -- of achieving that goal to two courses at its end. As a result of this and due to the lack of transparency, because the Education Council never publishes the actual registration data of dual vocational training, this parliamentary group asked an oral question in the commission which took place on 6 March this year, in which we strictly asked which were the numbers of enrolment in dual middle grade and higher grade vocational training between the courses 2013-2014 and this, 2018-2019. Indeed, at the conclusion of the question, the Director-General has no choice but to give the data that they actually show is much below that amount, of that target of 5,000 that is intended to be achieved. This — I repeat, ladies and gentlemen — was March 6th, and March 22nd, that is, sixteen days later, counsellor publishes a resolution in which he experimentally creates the Greek Network for the dynamization of dual vocational training. This network, which is initially set up with a maximum of forty-eight centres which must include that figure — and I leave that figure there — which are the integrated vocational training centres, and are integrated into the twenty-three centres, has basically six functions. First, to look at companies; as if there was no prospect at this time. I mean, what have we been doing so far if we still need to do that prospect? Unless there has been an increase in the industrial sector, which seems to be feeling little sympathy for what has just been asked to the president, or that we have expanded the territory and we need to explore it, that prospect had to be made. Paying attention to the needs of companies, getting to know professional profiles. To meet the needs of tutors and tutors in the workplaces. Diffusion of dual FP between students from different educational levels. Provide advice to all actors participating in dual FP projects. And he says they can train and inform these actors to perform other activities related to dual vocational training. All right, another model theoretical framework, which is not questionable, seems to us well, but that resolution gave, in its paragraph 6 — an eye! — five working days for the submission of applications to join that network; five days. Subsequently, the resolution was published on 9 April, in which it is established that centres form part of this dual vocational training network, which leads us to the stage, which in 17 days – eleven! – the Education Council and all the centers potentially incorporated to that network were able to design and publish the network. I insist, they're lightning procedures, it's a little-known efficiency in public management, unless, of course, all of this has already been weakened and given a certain form of legality to create that network at this time. Well, forty-six centers were selected, the distribution is the least, but there are twenty of the Coruña, seven of Lugo, seven of Ourense and twelve of Pontevedra. And they also set out the functions that the people responsible for these projects will perform. They call our attention powerfully to the fact that the people responsible for these projects are dedicated exclusively to the dynamisation of dual vocational training. That means they won't give a single class hour. That means that their educational reduction, which is total, exceeds that of the directors, that of the heads of studies, that of the secretaries, that of the vice-directors, that of the heads of departments, to all that is planned up to this moment. These people, these forty-six teachers and teachers, are going to focus exclusively on this. Obviously, this has a cost, and we estimate that that cost — look at this data! — is a minimum between 1,330,000 and 1,441,000 euros, and on that account I can assure you — either one of you — that the extra payments are not included, nor are the trienniums included, nor are the teachers' genders included; that is, the amount is much higher than this one, and therefore we have this annual cost. We are therefore talking about a measure that is far from being free and that - as I said - exceeds the projected time reduction, in any case. And there are some questions to be asked about it. First of all, what justifies the creation of this Welsh Network for the dynamization of dual vocational training? If that creation keeps some sort of relationship to the low registration in this modality in the autonomous community, which seems not to be so because the Administration itself is satisfied with the amounts and the figures reached in the registration. The question of whether five days is enough for the centres to value the convenience of joining this network or not. It is worth asking how many centres have requested their inclusion, which were the criteria for selecting these centers. Suppose it was a digital design. It is worth asking what is the real cost of this measure, which - I insist - in the estimate I said before, I am absolutely sure it is much lower than reality. And so, as we consider, it is not that we consider it, but that we know that in the design of public policies we have to be efficient, that we have to be fair and that we have to be subject to democratic control, that we present this proposal not of law, that we be informed of the procedure that has been designed, if that is what we have, to assess the implementation of the Welsh Network of dynamization of dual vocational training. I insist that, as we believe it is a highly competitive, highly designed procedure, the Government will have no problem informing this House of which are the criteria that they will use to assess the results of this implementation. Nothing else on my side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u68	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u69	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Mr. Alvarez was speaking of lightning efficiency and that he justified this. Well, basically, this is justified because the Education Council has a subsidy coming from the Ministry of Education, with a finalist nature, and it has to be spent before the end of 2019. That's exactly what happens. A further example, palmary, also obvious, and it might even be funny if it wasn't such a sad story, of the most absolute improvisation with which the People's Party has been working since Galician Union, and in particular in the Council of Education. He made it improvising, and so was the level of de-purpose in the degree of improvisation that they had to correct their own initial resolution, because it was expected that in those exclusive liberations that Mr. Álvarez was talking about, and from then on I will also speak, it would include professors, teachers and interim students, and an extension of his work day, or his employment contract, beyond that of legality. They made it, in addition, without any sort of assurance of continuity. I insist that it is a grant coming from the Spanish Ministry of Education with a finalist character and that it must be exhausted, which must be invested, before the end of this year 2019. But there they cured in health, so they put in that "experimental" collection. As you have no idea how they're going to count on this fund for next year, if this is going to have more continuity beyond 2019, they put that experimental character on it, and if next year it's all gone, they're going to say they didn't meet the targets. A scandal, really, a scandal and a disincentive. They approved this resolution with lightning efficiency - said Mr. Álvarez - with unusual concern - I would say - and I would say - and I would not want to be unpleasant, which is the first hour of the morning - because of the triumph the Galego Council of Vocational Training and the Sectoral Bureau, when we are talking about changing working conditions - as explained earlier - the most forty teachers who are released exclusively to perform functions basically... said Mr. Álvarez that he did not question them, Ben, I see that they are basically going to act commercially. It was previously read that the functions that these people will have exclusively released to be responsible for this dual vocational training network will be to meet the needs of companies, also to meet the needs of tutors in work centres and educational centres, to disseminate dual vocational training between the student from other educational levels, etc. More than 40 teachers and teachers of vocational training are released, who have so far been developing their roles as part of the training of this student, nor are they negotiated at the Galego Council of Vocational Training, nor are they negotiated at the sectoral table. There is already an announcement by the IGC, a majority education union in our country, which will present an appeal precisely because of this lack of negotiation. What this seems to us is one more occurrence, one of so many: I have a game, I have to spend it before the end of 2019, I'm going to put this forward, I'm going to make it experimental, see what happens, and by 2020 you'll see. We agree with the resolution proposed by the Socialist Party today, with which it is handed down and made public what were the procedures and, in any case, how this dual training network will be developed. I believe that this House is highly aware of what is the view that the Nationalist Galego Block deserves this kind of vocational training. They know of the deep discrepancies as it is materializing, which in the bottom consists in equipping, supplying, of labor and labor very cheap companies not only from Galicia, but from the territories in which it is developing. And we saw that it was relevant, either for the sake of or with the objective of that democratic control of what Mr Álvarez also spoke of, that he refers to Parliament — we have opened a little more of his sleeve in that sense—, before completing this legislation, a report on the control mechanisms that the Government of Galician Union has implemented to ensure the rights of students of dual vocational training, and more because in May 2019 it was announced that it ends with the maximum age to enter this type of qualification, which can go far beyond what is legally planned to sign a training and learning contract, which, as you know, has a limit of 25 years. We want it to be explained, that it is reported — and this concludes — that these coordination mechanisms exist with these companies in order to guarantee the rights in terms of working conditions, the wages received by these students and also whether they are being complied with and to guarantee the training rights of those who are enrolled in this vocational training. What we would need in this country would be to make an assessment of what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, since this educational modality has been implemented, and, above all, if it's being guaranteed and meeting its objectives, and that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u70	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u71	...as we think, this dual vocational training is not becoming a way to feed labour, labour force, very cheap for companies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u73	...and it's not fulfilling that obligation of training. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u74	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u75	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Just by evaluating this non-law proposition, we wanted to start where Mrs. Rodil left him. Knowing that our parliamentary group has shown numerous doubts and reluctance regarding the implementation of a clearly alien formative model, designed for very different socio-economic realities from Galicia, from large companies with training capacity, which in our economy has real difficulties to function. The German Government has been working on the systematic and acritical implementation of a formative model designed for large business economies a few years ago, in a reality where most of our companies are very small and have no training experience. Not only that, but when we talk about dual vocational training, we have to insist on a fundamental issue: the labour consequences. And there we are obliged to address the numerous allegations of the misuse of this training system, which is due to which a large part of the hourly load takes place in work centres, transforming what should be a training process into precarious employment. And from there, low wages, replacement of stable jobs for dual FP students, precariousness, poverty. It is not possible to talk about dual vocational training without considering the problem produced by companies that use cycle pupils as cheap labour, without any kind of control by the Administration. It's good that the student is in a company; of course, it's positive. We believe that it can contribute to people's training. But you can't deny that this presence ends up having a productive function, ends up covering up a working relationship, and there watch out! We must be vigilant. But never until now has the Public Administration felt responsible for this work drama; no criticism, quite the contrary. The fundamental concern of the Government of Feijóo when it speaks of dual vocational training is never students or students, it's always companies. So much so that today's theme, the Greek network of dynamization of dual vocational training, is not designed to meet any of the needs of the student. The resolution is clear on this matter when it says, "This network will act as a point of attention to entrepreneurship and establish a direct channel of communication between administrations, educational centres and businesses." Should this be the priority of the teaching board, meet the needs of the entrepreneurship? We, of course, believe that the priorities of counseling should always be students, teachers, recipients and guarantors of the proper functioning of the education system. But that would require listening and dialogue, two fundamental aspects of any educational innovation that, of course, this dynamisation network has forgotten. Thus, as the IGC reported, this resolution was published without any prior negotiation, without any margin for the dissemination and debate of this measure in the workplaces, and with the application of a pyramidal command system that collects the worst of the integrated vocational training centres. A rule that, as was said here, opened the door to direct appointment, by the management, up to forty-eight teachers, one for each educational center, which would initially form that dynamizing network. A further example of the Council's contempt of the professor of vocational training, who was neither heard nor asked for anything at all, and the union representation, which had no opportunity to debate a rule that would mean changes in the working conditions of the important professor, as it has been said here: the total reduction in the educational burden. Nothing has been published, absolutely nothing, on the criteria that would be used to select the centres and the people responsible for the network. There was so much rush in spending the money, that it took only five working days, since the release on 22 March, for the applications. Does it make sense to promote a change, a supposed important educational innovation, just two months from completing the school course, causing changes in the functioning of the schools and the occupation of the teacher? There was one more example of constant improvisation and lack of planning and propaganda. It looks like the usual: occurrences and no planning. The fact is that there are many questions that we would like to ask about this resolution. Does it make sense, above all, to invest the resources always disputed, always qualified by the Government as scarce...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u76	I'm sorry, I'm sorry. No photos can be taken in the Chamber. No photos allowed. So I beg you to comply with what is stipulated in the Rules of Procedure. Please, everyone in general, but in this case you can't take pictures. Sorry, go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u77	...in a matter like this? Would it not be better if the resources of dual vocational training were, for example, for such important matters as covering the costs of displacement, maintenance or accommodation of the student? It's clear to us. These are questions that require pause, debate and, of course, evaluation. That is why we will vote in favour of the Socialist Group's proposal: to evaluate, evaluate and evaluate, in order to plan, legislate and govern better.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u79	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. It is clear, and it has been thus aroused in the debate, that there are different views about dual vocational training; even in opposition groups there are different views. I understand that in this case the Socialist Party can have a more shared perspective with which we can have from the People's Parliamentary Group with the relevance of dual vocational training, because both on the part of the Galician Nationalist Block and on the part of En Marea there is a presumption, whether veiled or not, explicit, of transferring to the citizenship that dual vocational training is an element of precariousness, an element of substitution of the formative part by job precariousness, as you said. Man!, as you will understand, we will not even share that argument. You know perfectly well that vocational training, since its inception, has training in work centres. What happens, that dual vocational training takes a step further. What he does is, precisely, to deepen what we also understand is that it has to be fundamental in determining a training process, which is the subsequent job insertion, and dual vocational training, fortunately, in Galicia has very positive employability data. What do you think this is not positive? Well, it's a vision. I say to us, of course, to think about the employment integration of students into the labour market that we have in Galicia seems reasonable, positive, a path that has to be explored and so you have to walk an educational administration, because we understand that education and training also have a later component of inclusion in the labour market. And for that, dual vocational training is a tool for us, of course, very useful, and as such we defend it. During the speeches, we talked about certain issues that I think need to be nuanced. And sometimes it is also curious how the Council of Education criticizes the Council of Galicia, in this case: if a procedure is slow, because the procedure is slow; if a procedure is quick, as in this case, because the procedure is quick, the story is to criticize. There is also criticism of improvisation, that in an improvised way funds are allocated to a given program, in a record time; but at the same time it is being clarified - and I did not say it - the spokesman for the Nationalist Block Galego said in this case - that this obeys a finalist grant received by the Central Government based on European funds. Man, you won't have to improvise the Administration who receives this finalist grant, will you? I understand that whoever grants this grant to meet within a specified time limit with a finalist character will have something to do with this issue, and of course it cannot be imputed by improvisation to the Administration receiving these funds. Control mechanisms. The control mechanisms of this program and this network are defined in the own decree of the network. Furthermore, as you know, any finalist grant of this kind that receives a public administration is subject to control mechanisms that have to justify before the grant body to subsequently receive those funds from which this training program was provided in this case. In addition, we are talking about a grant - as you said - which comes from the Ministry but which is based on European funds, which have specific control mechanisms, and which, of course, the Administration that receives these funds has to comply with. Therefore, transparency and control?, absolute, absolute! What you cannot ask for, in an experimental program in which a decree is passed last March 22, as you pointed out, is that an evaluation of the implementation of this program is being carried out before the session period ends, because we have to give this program some time to see its degree of implementation and to be able to assess with a correct criterion what the implementation is and what the results are getting this program. And, I mean, the results aren't being invented by us or by the People's Group, they're collected in their own decree. This network has clear objectives in its configuration, and among them it is - as it was said before - to increase the presence of dual vocational training in Greek education. Dual vocational training is a fundamental bet of the Education Council, and today 127 cycles of the dual vocational training modality are offered, in 66 different degrees, in a total of 42 educational centres, with 1,069 students and students enrolled and the collaboration of more than 200 Greek and national companies and associations. Because we have several mechanisms to know if the implementation of this plan is positive. First, a qualitative. Check whether there is a qualitative increase in the presence of students of dual vocational training as well as of companies working together and, subsequently, graduates of this formative modality. That's already an argument, an assessment criterion. But what you can't say is that we have brought to this House a report on the evaluation of compliance with this program when it's an experimental program that is still beginning to develop. So you have to understand that we are not going to vote in favour of your non-law proposal. In addition, what we will certainly not agree -- because I think that we should not agree -- is what we are trying to do from the Nationalist Block Galgo and En Marea and that in the amendment of the Block it is perfectly reflected, which is always to cast that shadow of doubt on dual vocational training as if it were a mechanism of precariousness, as you said. The social commitment of companies in collaboration with education is very important for the development of quality training and, at the same time, to facilitate integration into the labour market. And we understand that not only do we have to recognize the involvement of companies, but we have to encourage them, and we have to value them, because often companies are also making an important effort so that these people who are going to be trained within the workplaces have a quality training, and in many cases...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u80	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u81	...—now finished, Mr President—have a quality training with a cost also for the company itself. In that sense, we understand that it has to be... I don't know why there's this permanent intention to transfer the image that the Greek companies or entrepreneurship are like a kind of demon hidden in the darkness. I'm something I'll never understand. We understand that there has to be a direct and effective collaboration between the Education Administration, companies and the Galician business fabric to achieve what, ultimately, is a goal that we understand is fundamental to the development of our society, which is the work integration of our young people and girls. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u82	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Group author of the non-law proposal, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u83	Thank you very much again, Mr. President. Mrs. Rodil, you said this with absolute clarity, there is a finalist grant which is necessary to justify, which is relevant not to lose, and therefore we set up the Greek Network for the dynamization of dual vocational training. Mr. Fernandez Gil, it's pure and harsh improvisation, things as they are. Look, this is a relatively small autonomous community. The teachers aren't many of us either, and we've met a lot of people who are engaged in the profession, and we know -- I know, because I was told -- that there were teachers and teachers who came to the first meeting of this Welsh network of dynamization of dual vocational training who didn't know what they were coming to. I mean, they put on something they didn't know what it was for. This meeting was held to put in place this network that looks like a procedure - they really believe me - highly improvised. Look, it's not about criticizing here, it's not about saying if it goes slow, because if it goes slow, if it goes fast, because it goes fast. Nor is it to take counseling like a Russian mountain. It's not about acquiring vertigo speeds to make a network like this one we're talking about on this initiative. I think -- I'm going to take my liberty, if Mrs. Rodil won't correct me even if she doesn't have a word - that the position of the Block is not criminalizing the productive sector of this country. No, no. What they ask for in their amendment -- which, of course, we accept because it substantially improves, or gives additional guidance, to our non-law proposition -- is not to monitor, is that we have a report on what is the functioning of this dual vocational training. I think that's the spirit, point a priori and blame without having any evidence. With regard to what Mrs Chao said, I share that, indeed, dual vocational training in some area, in some particular productive sector, has certain doubts about its implementation. And he has certain doubts because, of course, there are academic articles, there is some comparative education, some of the education journal of the National University of Distance Education, which alerts to the high normative fragmentation that has dual vocational training in Spain as a result of which we are moving into experimental projects, and therefore that lack of uniformity and lack of criteria leads to different solutions in different autonomous communities. Therefore, in some sectors this dual vocational training may not work as it should. Mr. Fernández Gil said that the FCT was from the beginning in vocational training cycles. Of course he is, of course he is. It is an obligatory part of the dual vocational training cycle. It goes through a lot, with a lot!, which was the experimental program of alternating practices that was in the Vocational Training that was derived from the law of the 1970s. That was something else, there were cases where the student did not acquire substantial training in companies and, therefore, came to replace workers in an irregular way. But it will allow me to correct your intervention; a correction not by correcting it, but to put things in their fair point of debate. You said that the indicators to evaluate were in your own decree. Look, it's neither decree nor even order, it's a resolution. No, no, no, it's important, it's very important. It's not a matter of normative rank, because a decree has a processing process, it has a series of reports. One order has another series of proceedings, which were previously referred to by Mrs. Rodil and Mrs. Chao, to completely avoid the sectoral representation of the professor, and a resolution we know how it is handled, is done from day to day if it is necessary, and that's what it is done. I am therefore deeply sorry, although I am not surprised that you do not support this non-law proposal, when it is really easy to establish indicators that would derive almost - as you said - and in that agreement - from what is established in your own resolution.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u84	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u85	They would simply be those indicators, but when you don't want to evaluate something, you don't want to, so we're going to leave it there, because what's not evaluated is not known if it works well, if it works wrong or even if it works. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u86	Mr. Álvarez, I'm sorry, about the amendment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u87	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u88	Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela and da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the employment situation of the staff and the level of eventuality in Sergas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u89	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u90	To formulate the non-law proposition Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u91	Thank you, President. Good morning, too, to all the people who accompany us from the rostrum, workers and workers, essentially workers of the public health system, to whom we thank - as always there are workers and workers in the plenary - their uncompromising and ill-recognizable work by the current leadership of the health system, Sergas. There's a problem, and you've ever listened to me. Every time we try to explain this here, I suppose we've heard of each other, they've often heard me say that there's a staff problem in the health system, and that's the problem that affects the situation of our system. Not in the quality of the professionals, which you always tend to throw into the house and say that you have the best, but in this case, in addition, it's probably quite argumental: we have the best healthcare professionals that can exist. Our training is highly valued and professionals usually show that they are very professional, very qualified. But there's a problem, not in their quality, but in the way they manage human resources for those who have the responsibility to do it. That's for two essential questions. There's a problem of number, of lack of resources, we don't have enough personnel, and there's a problem of precariousness, absolute precariousness, exploitation of human resources, of the most horrible model of employers against workers, and this causes some situations that are indecent, and indecent is a word used with all intent. Indecent in the health system. We normally give here several data to all parliamentary groups. It is true that there are four parliamentary groups, three of us usually use quite similar data, which comes from organizations, from groups, and the People's Party uses data supposedly from the Galician Union. And I say supposedly because on many occasions there is no official data; because when we ask them, they are not given; because when they are given, as they have recently passed a report to the thread of some committee in this Parliament, they are even covered or covered so that they cannot be read. There's no official data, there's no way to know, for example, how many professionals work today in the public health system in Galicia. It's not possible. Today, any sensible system in the world has a computer app through which with a clip, with a maximum of three clips, we can know how many professionals are working at that time on the system. Today this is impossible in Sergas, impossible. Or rather, it's possible, but no one wants to share it, which is a more direct way of saying it. But in order not to hold this in a debate, a dialectical matter between parties, I will allow myself to give some data, none of them of the Socialist Party. And besides, I'm going to do something that in a debate with the People's Party sometimes is a little curious, which is to quote the sources, because quoting the sources of the data is sometimes surprising. Official budgets of the Galician Union, with this should be worth forever, but it's only one. From 2009 to 2019, we lowered the staff in numbers, the staff in the health system. For example, in primary care, in ten years, 1,249 people less. Official budgets, 1,249 people less. Official Staff Bulletin for the service of public administrations, which are sent six monthsly to the Ministry of Finance, which governs. It's made by technicians, public workers. Since 2009 in Galicia, in the health system, 1.53% less professionals in the last ten years. Report of the Working Committees on Training Squares in Galicia. Over the last ten years we have lost to asking for 150 Community family doctors, only family and community medicine doctors. This means there are 150 professionals less than we could have trained and we don't have, now that we hear that there are no professionals. In ten years, 150. General Medical Council of Spain, a medical demography report published last year. He points out that Galicia had 448 optional or optional last year for every 100,000 inhabitants. The third worst community in Spain, the third worst. Satse report from INE data. I know he accuses us of not being able to use the INE and IGE websites. Nursing, 5.29 colleges or colleges per 10,000 inhabitants. We're 14 community of 17, to 14! In Sergas they work 3.38 professionals for every 10,000 inhabitants. In Spain the average is in 5 and in Europe in 8. With 3.38 we are of the worst autonomous communities in Spain on average of nurses and nurses per 10,000 inhabitants. Taronas in Sergas, 0.12 per 10,000. We are the third worst community in Spain in the ratio of masters. Official College of Psychology, 3.7 per 100,000 in Sergas. The average of Spain is almost 4.5, just by setting an example, in ten years the public health system has been called three psychologists' squares, three in ten years. 3. None of this data is from the Socialist Party, of course, which has no access to direct data because, although in a natural democracy a parliamentary group would have access, this is not a democracy of all nature, here in Galicia we have our specifics. There's a number problem in all categories, in all scales, in all responsibilities. There's a number problem, we have fewer professionals than we need, we need more, and there's no way to make it clear to the Galician Union and the People's Party that this is the case. We usually listen: there are no professionals. Let me have two data. Recently, exams were held, an OPE, a summons, for nursing. There was something more than eight hundred squares and there was something more than eight thousand people examining, ten per square. If there are ten people per square, how can it be maintained, from the greatest rationality possible, that there are no professionals available? What about the other nine in every square? What about the others more than 7,000 people who don't get that test? Did he do it for sport? They're stable, they're statutaries, and they're gonna be there on Sunday... nobody's got anything else to do on a Sunday, thirty and a half degrees, than go to Silleda for an exam! And study it before, of course! They're not stable in the system, they're out. They're professionals that we've trained, that we've got a lot of skills, and that they're out. Don't tell us there are no professionals, they're there! Another data. You know that the World Health Organization points out that approximately one doctor or doctor needs to be trained for every 10,000 inhabitants. There are 300 fifty in Galicia each year, and that exceeds the number we need. Why is there a deficit in some specialties? Because we don't ask for it, 150 lost squares. And why are they out? Because this system is absolutely exploitative, absolutely exploitative. Precautionary. To make it easier. The High Court of Justice of Galicia, which is not a political party of those who accuse us of twisting the data. "Tortice and fraud." Literal. What does the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia qualify as torture and fraud? The recruitment and use of staff in the Public Health System of Galicia. It tortures and cheats the way to hire. Why? Because he says something - to see if we are able to remember - that you have ever heard here: that you are hiring yourself eventually, and concaterating contracts systematically, to cover structural positions. Or what's the same, they're from the People's Party exploiting workers with precarious contracts to occupy squares that had to be convened in a statistically manner. And they're not doing it, why? Because if you can fire them easier. Because so you don't have to be holding on to this work rights thing, which is... please, how we're going to handle it! Because that's how we're able to keep them tighter. Because who cares that they have to be careful and pay attention to so many nurses to a cell phone so they can't say no to a replacement, be it a day, be it two weeks or three months, without being able to plan their lives? Who cares? It says more to the High Court of Justice of Galicia. He just sanctioned Sergas for overburdening. There's a very recent judgment from a primary care professional who asked Sergas because there were no replacements for the casualties and vacations of the professionals working with him, and therefore there was a saturation of the care load. Judgments that tell Sergas he's a top-ranking labor operator. Sergas is the Deliveroo, the Glovo, of the health system, is the worst of the contracting companies, of the worst in this country. And that's indecent, because we're working with professionals and professionals who give us stability in a fundamental area of our life. How long, how much money and quality will it cost us the pride of the People's Party? How many court decisions are necessary? To be the leader of a public health system and that there are judgments constantly saying that we are being torturers and fraudsters, malicious and fraudulent!, in hiring professionals, and then going up here saying that we want professionals a lot... torturers and fraudsters, that's what the judges say. Care must be taken of those who care for us, who are the people who treat us when we're worse. And that's what defines the way we want our public services, how we treat people who offer us an equal public service that gives us social cohesion. Here we hear many times...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u92	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u93	...you've ended up saying there's 88% of stable nurses in the system. Where? Where do the data come from? Where? Or what's been a thousand five hundred professionals more now than ten years ago? Where? Who pays them? How is it possible to sustain such a big lie with such a face? See if we are able, from the moment we are, to correct this drift. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u95	Good morning. Greetings also the professionals who are in the rostrum. The employment situation of Galician public health personnel has been a cause for concern for the BNG. We have put forward a lot of initiatives on this situation, with regard to the reduction of markets, of unsatisfactory OPEs, of precarious employment, with regard to recruitment for days and hours, with regard to the situation of stress and aid pressure in which workers and public health workers have to develop their activities. We report that the People's Party behaves like the worst of the bosses with the public health staff in our country. And we're not going to get tired of repeating that health professionals are human capital, which is the most valuable thing the system has. We denounce that on many occasions the People's Party, here in this Parliament, and also the leaders of the council, are disbanding staff, saying the very high level of professionalism and work that professionals develop. Indeed, but then what they do doesn't match that recognition, but quite the opposite. All the steps that have been taken were in the direction of overloading the staff and deteriorating their working conditions. The 10 years of the People's Party's government have brought back work conditions, loss of rights and precariousness, so without any kind of embassies. Back policy turned to professionals, deaf ears, pre-power, order and command and taxation. That's the policy of the People's Party in the Government of Unity with the health personnel. We have an undertrained health system of personnel, and with an important part of what you're working on in a situation of total precariousness. This is not a new situation, it's not a last-minute situation, it's not an exceptional situation, it's a consequence of the decisions that have been made. They were warned by active and passive as to what the situation was. They were warned that Sergas' own human resources plans contemplated the high level of age of many professionals, that there would be a very important retirement and that they had to take action. But the People's Party did not want to hear these questions because its roadmap was precisely deterioration. Staff have made many efforts and sacrifices so that the state of deterioration of public health is not so obvious and the population does not live with all the hardness that would have been if they had not made that effort to multiply, to work far above what is desirable. And there is evidence: labour instability, this precarious situation, this lack of human resources, directly affects the care and quality of the health care offered. The lack of staff and the lack of continuity and stability of staff paintings implies a loss of the quality of care and a major impairment in that attention. Of course, the BNG will continue to bring initiatives to this Parliament in this direction. There is a part of the eventuality that must, of course, be maintained in respect of last-minute contracts for issues that are not foreseeable. But there is a whole series of recruitment, of foreseeable situations, which, of course, since Sergas are not meeting how it would have to be done: low-income contracts, vacation contracts, long-term contracts, which can't be covered by Mondays to Fridays, half a day, which can't be supplied with interstitutions, which is that less personal care should be given to the work they all have to provide. With this initiative presented today by the Socialist Party, we agree in part, but not in its entirety. That is why we tabled an amendment to the effect that a human resources management plan should be carried out immediately — we put it within a maximum of six months. To really know what the situation is at this time of the human resources Sergas has, to identify which squares are the squares, to know which squares are filled with vacancies and which are filled with accumulations of tasks. That is to say, to know what the human resources situation in Sergas is and from then on to present a plan of employment stability that is negotiated at the sectoral table and that will enable a suitable staff framework to be established. Of course, we don't agree to jump...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u96	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u97	...the recruitment plan. And what we are demanding is that the Galician Parliament urges the Government of Greece to comply with an agreement from this Parliament. BNG brought this Parliament, in November 2018, a petition...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u98	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u99	...—Filled, President—of the IGC which was adopted unanimously, which demanded that the Spanish Government eliminate as a basic rule the rate of replacement of troops in the Budget Act.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u100	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u101	Why do we demand this? Because he's the cause of an important part...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u102	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u103	...of the precariousness that exists at this time in Sergas. There has been an agreement in this Parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u104	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u105	...and we don't know what he did. And we don't know what they're doing to eliminate that replacement rate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u106	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u107	...that we demand as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u108	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u109	Thank you, President. To welcome, first of all, the comrades who are in this debate invited by the proposed group. And to move that just today is a month in which several thousand nurses and nurses filled with dignity Sileda carrying those black shirts, but also providing a clear, nesty message, which came throughout the examination, and ended the opposition itself, to the German Government. To translate that they will not endure stops, without doing anything, without doing anything, an absolute situation of precariousness, known by all public administrations in recent years, and that, however, they do not have a single change in the budget, nor the acceptance of a single amendment of the opposition in order to expand the number of professionals, nor a single measure to end the precariousness. And just a few days before the test in Sileda -- and I'm going to read from here something that wrote some of those possible companions in the fight, which referred to a life that's customary for each of those nurses and nurses, those nursing assistants, those lockers and lockers -- "You've spent your life in chains on day-to-day contracts for 15, 20 or more days; sometimes without any day's rest. You can't afford your time, Sergas robs you of everything, because you don't even know where tomorrow will be and you can't plan anything: a medical appointment, a check-out, you can't even pick up your son when you leave school, and you'll spend the week asking for favors to be picked up because his father works as well." They're subject to this type of recruitment for about twelve years until they cover a vacancy. And the worst thing is, for those long years, your time was wasted but your life plan was stolen too. You're not allowed to grow up at your age, because with a contract of possible no one with that contract gives you a mortgage. Often not even a credit for a car; and a car is a tool you need to go to work. And we don't talk about having children being possible, because the only reconciliation that exists is the permission to suspend calls, that is, in your home, without pay and without charge. This is the situation of all those comrades, of all those who mobilized on the OPE day and of all those who also protested in their homes because they were other professional categories and protested about this situation. And after that mobilization, after that OPE, what we heard in this House in the past Plenary was a president of the Board lying — because he has no other name — about the percentage of eventuality in the Public Health Service, twisting the contents of the Law on the Basic Status of Staff Staff and Staff Qualification. Because the president is not an ignorant, the president is a career officer and knows the law perfectly, but he's interested in transferring that a person in a replacement situation, in an interim situation, is a professional who's fixed, and that's absolutely a lie. There's no 80% of the fixed professionals, there's services with 40% of the eventual professionals. And if not, tell them -- as the proponent said -- to all those people who have to present themselves, year by year, to an opposition process too, because Sergas decides not to take the whole square that has the contest. And we're talking about places that aren't new anymore, but squares that are structurally covered in a precarious way. And in the face of that situation, he came here to defame, and people were in his house the truth that very angry listening to what is said here. Moving away that there is a situation that seems to be the choice of professionals, that can escape from that precariousness that we have just read and that we have just reported, and that they have perfectly commented. And only a few days later -- and I'm going to go finish because I don't have any more time -- in a space where partners publish the contracts they have -- I'm going to read an example -- I'm not going to say the place or the name, obviously. There's a partner who said, "I've been given a replacement in a health center..." -- less than a week ago -- supposedly between days 6 to 17. What's my surprise that only working days! I mean, I don't have a contract on weekends and they give me days off elsewhere." Another roommate said, "I'm having this too. They give me three days, from Friday to Tuesday, because Friday always ends the contract and starts again on Monday." The Galician Health Service commits ongoing fraud to Social Security. It's an absolutely incomprehensible element. It's the sum of the precariousness that the administration is the one that cheats the administration itself. This is being continuously given, and indeed, as the proponent said, it happens with the concatenation of contracts, but it happens with all those contracts that are not fraudulently made on weekends. We are going to support the initiative because it seems to us that, in addition, regardless of the figure — obviously, each group can have one —
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u110	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u111	...it's essential to give this debate and put an end to the precarious situation of these comrades.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u112	Thank you very much. Mr Núñez Centeno speaks for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u113	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Greeting also the professional people who accompany us in the rostrum. Mr. Torrado, I don't know if you approve of that other group member who said that the Greeks didn't know what they were voting for when they won the People's Party. And, of course, speaking of sovereignty... sovereignty is to keep the speech and the falsities that led them to lose both of you consecutive autonomous elections. Now that you constantly appeal to the polls, think about the decision of the Greeks as well. We're talking about job stability today in the Galego Health Service. There was indeed a judgement by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia concerning the case of a doctor in Galicia. But we know that there are similar judgments in all autonomous communities, many of them derived from a decision of the European Court of Justice concerning the concatenation of contracts. This is not an exclusive problem of Galicia, and you know it, and our community has advanced more than any other in labour stability. I would like to highlight the approval of the Sergas Staff Stabilization Plan, which is the maximum eventuality of 5% in 2020, two years before what you propose in your initiative, and three points below the state target. You also know that eventuality is absolutely necessary and indispensable in health care. A service that works 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, must necessarily require staff to cover essential squares in expected circumstances or not — vacations, casualties or any other emergency. As I told you, in 2017, the Galego Health Service took an important step with the signing of the employment stability plan trade unions and provision of the Sergas 2017-2018 staff, reflecting this commitment to reduce timeliness to 5% in 2020. The Health Council has repeatedly asked the Ministry to eliminate the replacement rate. Mr. Torrado, will you propose that the German Government violate the law in respect of this fee? You, who have been considered to be a real influencer of the Welsh health policy, should and could use that ability that you claim to have to convince your Government that you have eliminated that rest rate that the Socialist Party approved in 2010 and that it has kept the People's Party after the mismanagement that your group has made of the crisis. The Podemos Group now contemplated, in its general programme, the elimination of the said fee, and I want to see whether in that future Government of cooperation forgets or not its promises. The public employment offer of 2019 applies a restorative rate of 108% — maximum permitted for fulfilling communities — and includes the assignment of 132 different sectors: 89 education and 43 civil service. This OP 2019 is in addition to other measures taken by the Autonomous Community of Galicia to give greater stability and improve the working conditions of the Galician Health Service staff, such as the Employment Stability Plan, which was adopted at the Health Sectoral Table in March 2017; the recognition of the professional career, which affects 22,000 workers, with an average increase of 6% in the annual salary, which fully equates the rights for all staff, and the full economic recognition of the same rights for the interim staff. In fact, Sergas' professional career is among the best in Spain, with much higher criteria than the rest of the communities. It seems that the Socialist Government is having problems with the development of this professional career. It seems that he wishes to appeal to the Constitutional Court for an alleged invasion of jurisdiction. I don't know what the partners on Saturday will think of this resource problem about career. The open and permanent tender for transferees — the first in Spain — and the eventual continuing statutory appointment. All these measures, among other things, guarantee greater staff stability, which will result in better health care and greater fidelity to available human resources. It is also necessary to point out that Galicia, in addition to exhausting 100 per cent of the replenishment rate, was the only community that maintained the annual calls from OPE, which will allow around 5,000 people to enter a stable square between 2017 and 2020. At the OPE for this year 2019, which was also negotiated at the Health Sectoral Bureau, 1,314 places are offered: 332 for staff of the State and health-care leaver; 567 for health and vocational training graduates; and 415 for management and service staff. Resolutions calling for opposition contests for family doctors, pediatricians, primary dentists and nursing care technicians are already published in the DOG. In total, between 2012 and 2019 6,006 squares were offered in Galicia's public health system. In short, Mr. Torrado, the German Government is working on the coverage of public health jobs by fulfilling the law, as it could not be otherwise. I insist that you work to eliminate the replacement rate and the Government of Greece will continue to advance in the recruitment of staff and in the coverage and stabilization of jobs, until you reach the maximum possible quotas that allow the essential needs...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u114	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u115	...—Finished, President—of potential staff who have public health. We are not going to support your initiative, among other things, because it would violate the basic regulations of the State. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Núñez. For the author group of the non-law proposition Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u117	Thank you, President. Mr. Núñez Centeno, you are like talking about post-election agreements. He chose the day to talk about post-election pacts, but good. Yes, yes, yes. [[Murmurs.]] You know, the most voted list of Madrid, Andalusia and those things. Anyway. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I want to thank you for the groups that have expressed your...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u118	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u119	Don't worry, every pact you think is better, there's no problem. But don't be ashamed of that. [[Murmurs.]] I want to thank you — if you let me speak — for the groups that have expressed your support. We have some doubts about the amendment of the BNG. I think we basically share the idea, and we thank her, even though what we think is a little bit more adjusted and actually meets the regulations. They only have to count how many professionals retire each year and how many we propose to hire. What we propose is to hire as many as possible but in a stable way, and that fits perfectly with the initiative that we have just presented. And we do not want to give up the third, which is basically that there is an obligation, a commitment, to hire those who chain up - as the initiative says - a very high number of days eventually. If it reaches a very high number of days -- we propose 300 in two years, it would be negotiable -- what we have to assume is that it's a structural position, and therefore we have to hire them. You can't be agreeing contracts to people who are in structural positions, that's the third point, and we don't want to give up on that. But we understand that the amendment was constructive and we also thank him for that support. With regard to the positions that the People's Party has defended, there are two things it has raised. One, the replenishment rate; and the other, the doubt about the eventuality data. First of all, on the replacement rate, there is an agreement of this Parliament. I believe that the only party that didn't meet that agreement was the People's Party, which actually -- you can say here -- never demanded the Government to meet the replacement rate, never! There is no document where you can believe it. There's no place left in writing. There is no request, no! It doesn't exist. That's more, I've counted five times on legislation, it might be some more, we vote here on the replacement rate, and the People's Party always voted against, always! So don't tell me stories now. Votes on the replenishment rate, always against. How good it was for you to rule the Socialist Party now! Until the Socialist Party governs, it's good for the People's Party, which begins to recognize things. They have a baby to start to realize what Galicia is when the Socialist Party rules. About eventuality, only to prove it. He didn't give here any source of the data, which is what we said. Where do these quantities come from that Mr. Feijóo says? Where do the 1,500 professionals come from? Nowhere, it's all inventions and lies! And to set an example, they just announced that they're going to stabilize here, right now, 5,000 squares in three years, that they're unstable and they're going to become stable, 5,000. They work in the healthcare system about 35,000 people, about 5,000 are something like 17% or 18%, but the 5% they're going to leave, which you say they're going to come. That puts us 23% -- 18% that say they're going to stabilize, but 5% that's going to stay. That's 23% of eventuality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u120	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u121	The one you just recognized here, that's Sergas' eventuality, at least 23%. He's got his pocket data. 23% just recognized him here. They're going to stabilize some who are unstable, they're unstable. 23% just recognized him here, at least, and we think they're something else. Allow me to figure it out. It's the only health system, the only one, which is unable to say in one day how many people are working, impossible! And that's evidence. We kept our initiative and hoped they would support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u122	Thank you very much. Did you accept the BNG amendment? [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out to regain the peace of Meiras for the public heritage and the position of the Galician Parliament on its use
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u123	An amendment was tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group as well.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u124	To formulate the non-law proposition Mr. Bará has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u125	Good morning. Last week, researcher Carlos Babío was the subject of a second demand from the Franco family for insults and slanders. It is paradoxical that this complaint was produced on the same day as the Supreme Court unanimously decided to suspend the exhumation of the dictator's remains. From here on, the BNG would like to state that it subscribes point by point to point each of the complaints made public by the writer and researcher Carlos Babío, who also did this monumental work that is the livelihood, the basis, in order to be able to accommodate the recovery of the palace of Meirás. [[Applause]] We express our support and gratitude to him, our recognition, for his example, for his immense work and his tireless struggle; a democratic, ethical and even personal struggle to end this infamy, to denounce the policeman and the theft of public goods by the Franco family. If things have changed since 2005, when a group of people have grown up in front of the Meirás palace to ask for their return -- they were members of the Commission for the recovery of the historical memory of the Crown -- today, 2019, when there is an immense social majority that defends this same idea, it is thanks to the work of people and entities like these who have just quoted, who have changed the framework of the game and even made the People's Party change. Because we must remember that five years ago the People's Party, the Galician Union, gave grants to the Franco family to open the peace of Meirás, and now it's also adding to this demand for the recovery of the palace to the public heritage. It is clear - we understand - the opportunity for this initiative, because next July there will be one year of the unanimous agreement of this Parliament in which we ask the Central Government to initiate the proceedings for this recovery of the palace of Meirás, and there will also be fifteen months of a similar agreement adopted - in full - by the Parliament of the Crown unanimously. Both agreements are solidly founded, from a historical and legal point of view, and clearly show that the palace of Meiras was acquired, rebuilt and enlarged with public funds and that it was the residence of the State Chief Executive. In addition, in the transition, this robbery, this policeman, was legalized, and was legalized with the complicity, with the participation, of the highest instances of the state, who throughout all this time had a complicity with the Franco family. Starting with the state's highest hierarchy, the Royal Crown, which was really a key piece to maintain the bounties and privileges of the Franco family. The policeman, for example, stole from the statues of Abraham and Isaac, or the case of the Cornide House or the courthouse, and also granted him noble titles such as the Lord of Meirás or the Duchy of Franco, with the greatness of Spain, both Carmen Polo and his daughter, also daughter of the dictator. This photograph of the palace of Meiras perfectly illustrates that complicity and convivence. Here are all the key parts of this plot that have been hoarded during franchise and then during the transition. Here are the protagonists of this complicity: the Franco dictator and the royal family. But there were also complicit attitudes on the part of all state governments over 40 years, of all political signs, to date. The Government of Pedro Sánchez, too, must say so clearly; it has failed to comply with the demands approved in this Parliament. They tell us they had drafted the civil demand to be filed in March, but at the last moment someone ordered to stop. We have proof, we have assurances, we know this was so. And this shows that there are very high-level pressures that they don't want to touch this subject. And the Government of the State, therefore the Central Government, the Government of the Socialist Party, must decide whether to play marketing with the issues of historical memory or whether to really address all the outstanding issues that we have in this matter which are unresolved, and which must be resolved with a new law or, of course, bravely and courageously, because the politics of historical memory cannot be left alone in exhuming the remains of the dictator of the Falls Valley. We must exhume all the frankness that pervades this state, starting with the remains we have in Galicia and the palace of Meirades. And there's a third key piece, which is the judiciary, as we saw in that sentence of the statues of Abraham and Isaac, and as we also saw in this last judgement of the Supreme Court, which paralyzes preventively, cautiously, that exhumation, which fires a Frankist ideological tuft that throws back. It's so clear. We understand that this judgement and this decision of the Supreme Court is a shame, it is an indecency, it is an indignity for a democracy, and we cannot consent to it. These kinds of decisions from all state bodies at the end of the day, what they do is they give legitimacy to franchiseism and, ultimately, their inheritance, which is an inheritance of terror, destruction, fear and corruption of state, of state theft, as we see with all these examples. [[Applause]] And this above all, what it does is to inflate the Franco family, who feels protected by all these structures of the state and who also feels empowered to use the court of Meirás to make apologize to the dictatorship and dictator, which is something we have to bear daily with the visits they organize, with all the exhibitions there, with the statements they make public, assuming they use that house, that palace, for those functions. And also the use they make of the apparatus of justice to attack, to persecute, the one who dares to denounce that policeman, that robbery and that robbery, as they did with the 19th of Meirás, which are also an example of commitment and defense of public goods, which were denounced by the Franco family, or the case of Carlos Babío. It is the world on the contrary: the state does not take judicial action against the Franco Family and they do take them against those who denounce their abuse and theft. Of course, BNG is not afraid of the Franco Family, so we want to put this issue in the political agenda, in the Welsh agenda and also in the state agenda; the theme of Meiraes, the theme of the thefts of the Franco family, its privileges, its predecessors, its noble titles still valid and published in the Official State Bulletin. That's why we're not going to stop until we dig up, until we exhume, all the frankism that still survives in Galicia, which is a lot, beginning with that great symbol, which is that of the Towers of Meirás. Besides, taller towers have already fallen, and this must also fall for a true democracy, so that we may once and for all cleanse those black pits of the transition that continue to overwhelm us. That is why we are presenting this initiative, I must say that I am willing to come to agreement with the amendments tabled, because it is important for us to have a unanimous agreement of this Parliament, a motion for a resolution which has three central elements. The first is to ratify the agreement already adopted by this Parliament almost a year ago, in which the Government of the State was asked to initiate this civil suit and, by the way, to make a preventive registration in the Civil Registry. We're waiting, and we think it's urgent that you do it because time runs for the Franco family in this case. And there are strange operations to shield, to prevent these actions from being carried out. It is therefore urgent for you to do this with maximum readiness. Secondly, what we ask is that you refuse and condemn this use of the Meirás palace to apologize the dictatorship and the dictator. We think it is inconceivable that at this point in the twenty-first century, in a state that is said to be democratic, consented and allowed to do so; and there are ways to combat that use that is being made. And finally, it seems to us that it is essential that the noble titles which King Juan Carlos I of Bourbon granted him on November 26, 1975 — look at the date — to the Franco family: the Duke of Franco and the Lord of Meirás. It's absolutely outrageous, disgusting, that these titles still survive. And their suppression, their annulment, by the legal formula to be adopted, is a symbol of great courage to tell the Franco family that we have come here. Perhaps recovering Meirás' palace is more complicated, but this is much easier in time, easier to achieve, because it's a question of political will, of a political decision by the Government, which has to tell the monarchy that it's enough complicity with franchise and that you have to work to eliminate all these remains from the dictatorship. [[Applause]] So we're facing a fire test for democracy and also a cotton test, a fire test for the Socialist Party. And we have to make it so clear. We have to appeal to the Socialist Party and tell it whether it will have courage and courage to carry forward this and many other outstanding questions in historical memory matters or whether it will renounce, if it will shut down, before those dark powers, those factual powers, which have been throughout all this time...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u126	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u127	...dwelling and preventing him from getting out of frankism and recovering from Meirás' palace. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u128	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Look, Mr. Bará, the socialists didn't crumble in front of Franco in 1936 and we won't be afraid now. You know it perfectly well. [[Applause]] If someone fought, among many others, for democracy and for the end of the dictatorship, we were socialists. And unfortunately, we have a lot of dead people in the bucket to prove it. And now, coming to this moment, I don't think you can doubt either, with justice and with reality, the commitment of the Government and of the Greek socialists to what happens to the palace of Meirás. We show it here, bringing a lot of initiatives about peace, showing it always voting for the recovery of the palace, and it has been demonstrated by the Government of Madrid by making its own resolution that has come out of this Parliament. We've demonstrated it and we've continued to show it by asking for a report to the Legal Counsel so that if you have absolute legal certainty so that you can recover the palace, because we're at a very difficult time, you quoted it. It is absolutely necessary that the demand for the Franco family to get the peace be true, be secure and avoid a victory for the Franco family; a victory for the Franco family as it is in the first instance achieved by the sculptures of the Arctic. It was also very easy, it was all very clear, too, but we got to the courts and couldn't. And we have another example, right now, on the table that says the problems we have, you quoted it: the paralysing of exhumation of the dictator's remains. Even though we thought we had all the legal guarantees and all the legal congratulations to do so, a court suspended him. He was suspended by a court that says in his resolution that Franco was head of state since 1 October 1936. This is what we face, Mr Bará, let's not be naive. And since we're not naive, we know what we're taking to the courts has to be absolutely safe, because we can't give the Franco one more victory, like the sculptures, so you have to be absolutely sure. [[Applause]] And this is making a socialist government. You have avoided naming and saying, and also avoiding it by the People's Party in its amendment, that if we have a first resolution on the study made by the Crown Deputy, a resolution of April 2018, by Mr. Rajoy's Government. And, what did you say to this resolution of State Heritage and Lawyers? In spite of what the report says — it is in Spanish — "(...) from 1941 to 1975, since it was never owned by the State, it could not and could not be integrated into national heritage, and this by application of (...). By virtue of this, the Board of Directors of the entity has not been legitimized for its claim." He refuses to take this matter to the courts, and this is what the People's Party has done, the party that is now asking to be brought to the courts and to succeed. Look, the truth is the truth, and the papers, sir, are the papers. We have also made several amendments to this matter. And I think you, Mr Bará, remained a little short. We want the titles removed from the Franco family, of course. We were the first ones that have already... first, I must remember — because it seems that things must be remembered — that the transmissions of Franco's title to the dictator's granddaughter were signed by the Minister Catalan, the PP, on the day of the motion of censure. As Minister of Justice, Mr. Catalá had nothing more urgent to do, for the benefit of the public good, than to sign the transmission of this duchy to the Franco family; for things must also put them in their place, and this was what happened. But, moreover, we, who want them to be annulled, and so we wrote it and registered it in the Ministry of Justice at that time, and we keep trying to do so by changing the necessary laws, we ask it here and we claim it here, and we remind the Government that we also want, as a Socialist Group, to do this, we also want the laws to be amended to cancel all the titles given by Franco, and there are more than forty. The Duke of Primo de Rivera, the Marquid of Queipo de Llano, the Marquid of San Leonardo de Yagüe, given to the general who underwent the massacre of Badajoz...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u130	It's over, it's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u131	...the Castillo de Mota County. All this still exists, and we want all this to be canceled, Mr Bará. I don't know what you want, but we want him to be cancelled, Franco's titles and all these titles. By the way, also the title of Count Fenosa, given to Barrie de la Maza, who was the most involved in the provincial council that gave the palace to General Franco. That's also it, we also want it to be canceled. I don't know what you want, Mr Bará, you'll tell me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u132	Thank you. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u133	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Mr Bará, the BNG is bringing a non-law proposal today on a matter that has been debated in this House for a long time. In an exercise of pure democracy, all the parliamentary groups represented here present our proposals, we contrast our opinions, we express our opinions, and the height of vision for all of us allowed us to reach an agreement, to a consensus, because we share the same objective, which is the recovery of the peace of Meirás to the public. This unanimous agreement, which you remembered a moment ago, was preceded by a long and important task of evaluation, documentary evidence, study, reflection by an expert committee. This committee of experts, chaired by a well-known historian, was composed by representatives of academic institutions, representatives of legal colleges and other public administrations, especially the Deputy of the Crown and the Council of Sada. This committee, plural and technical, presented its conclusions in a report that served to this House to determine this resolution text that we adopted in July 2018. And I think it's necessary to underline, as you did before, three questions of this text that was adopted on that day. First of all, the recognition of the work done for years by historians, historians, associations and institutions in connection with the historical memory and the palace of Meirás. Secondly, the referral of the report, with all the documentation attached, to the General Administration of the State, which is what brings us here again today, with the express request that legal action be initiated with the aim of reintroducing the Meirás palace into the field of public domain goods, without entailing any cost to the people of Galicia. And thirdly, the request for the Galician Union to incorporate into legal action as an adhesive adjuvant, which we really want to do. Well, our amendment aims to recover this level of consensus, and that's why it picks up its proposal substantially, focusing on the demand for the recovery of the peace of Meirás and reaffirms us in the refusal to use this BIC to exalt the franchisy regime or dictator. This is not the first time that this government, that this party and this People's Group, publicly condemns, in fact firm and rotent, any use of the peace of Meirás to apologize frankism, and we will continue to do so whenever necessary, here and outside this House. Just as the Galician Union, in accordance with its powers, will continue to apply the existing legislation. And it is curious, in this sense, the amendment of the Socialist Party. Mrs. Burgo, she played a card today in the gallery. First, because you lengthen it in an euphemistic way, towards as little time as possible, and mask under that formula the inaction of the Government of Spain, that progressive government of Mr. Sánchez who, after eleven months, has taken no step in the case he occupies us. Now Mrs. Burgo talks about legal security, but when Mr. Sánchez wasn't in the Moncloa he gave the People's Party all the haste so that without reports, with reports, as he had been, he would issue those issues and -- not my word, I'm sorry -- issued those actions to recover the peace of Meirades. Your amendment also underestimates the action of the Prosecutor's Office, Mrs Burgo, because we all know that the Prosecutor's Office can act on its own initiative, and should, in addition, be the first interested in complying with state legislation such as the foundation law. Thirdly, because the Socialist Party of Galicia is clear that it does not trust the Government of Mr. Sánchez, and here I again link with the proposal of the Galician Nationalist Block, to comment that our amendment does not raise the issue of noble titles for a simple reason. Mrs. Burgo, I'm not going to do like you and name you one by one all the noble titles that have renewed the different socialist governments throughout this democracy, because it was really a few corners. He said that our amendment does not raise the issue of noble titles because we know that the Government of the State also promised a year ago that the General Directorate of Historical Memory was studying the possibility of a reform in the noble legislation allowing the derogation of noble titles. It seems that Mr. Sánchez's government is not in a hurry to fulfill these and other promises he has made to reach the Moncloa. But, ladies and gentlemen, this People's Group calls for a constructive spirit to enable us to reach an agreement, just like almost a year ago. Mr. Sánchez said in his intervention that day that putting an agreement at risk would be irresponsibility and disloyalty to all the people who have been fighting. And for us not to reach an agreement today, it would be to undo the journey. So by this group it won't be, I'm sure we can reach a transition that meets all demands. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u135	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. We're talking again about human rights, a transcendental issue and a worrying issue at this point in which politics gallops like a broken horse and that we have a friendship and pacts with a party that is absolutely negationist. And I'm very glad that the People's Party of Wales reiterates this, but I have concerns and many doubts. I'm going to start by saying that we have our own common vision. That's why we don't amend the Galician Nationalist Block proposal. The fight against impunity is of utmost importance. Ladies and gentlemen, I've said it several times — it's how I feel — suffering is colder than this timer who sometimes fails. Suffering is cold, like a shot in the temple, like those shots that resonate, like those voices echoing from two people to one that was referred to here. There was a reference, for example, to the Flax Queipo de Lano, also nicknamed him from Andalusia. We know that Andalusia has been the most punished community in Spain, fifty thousand retaliations, fifty thousand, and we know that right now the agreement of the Andalusian PP with Vox and with Citizens wants to derogate the Law of Historical Memory, and that is why the immense concern. Crew of Llan, among other sighs, said, "The Republican women will know what the men are" -- inciting rape -- and not those faggot men," -- so Queipo of Llan said in a speech in Seville. This comes to the point, just as the story comes not only by the breath of Queipo de Lano, but also by the proclamations of General Mola, who said, "We sow terror," and it was sown. He said, "Let's be bloody," they went. "We kill everything that is contrary to what we believe," and they did. And "if my father is one of them, one who thinks differently, too." This as an initial reference, to say that it is essential that all democrats open up the four words, which are not words, which have an extraordinary dimension: truth, justice, reparation and non-repetition. The important thing we have talked about here, about the concrete theme of the Meirás palace, we believe that if it is urgent, but we also believe that it is very important, it is not unsolicited that it is done as soon as possible, but with the best assurances, to fulfil the objective of its reversal and incorporation into the public heritage. There are two extraordinary, very good reports: the deputy officer of the Crown and the officer of the board. Here are the historians, the jurists spoke. But what is the heart of this onion? You'll have to be sure who has the legitimacy to sue. This is a crucial aspect. With regard to the other two points of reference, the rejection of this BIC is fundamental. What are we talking about? The Francisco Franco Foundation — which many people believe to be an allegal foundation, for the time it was formed — manages the visits at this time, and they say it is an opportunity to show to the general public the greatness of the figure of Francisco Franco, the greatness of the great dictator, the greatness of the bloody. It's a joke, it's an insult to the victims. On the way in, and that's not how we went to the Committee on Culture of this Parliament, which was not yet the Franco Foundation, there's a huge poster coming from visitors denouncing the genocide of Catholics. This is no justice, no reparation, no truth. This is a partial vision and an apology. It's a shame it's not really in the Criminal Code that this is meant to be a crime, because there are a lot of laws to change, and this is something that needs to be changed. Well, with respect to noble titles, of course we're left with the date. There was not a year that Franco had died, four days after being crowned the first king—after emeritus, and a week ago I don't know what it is— Juan Carlos I, what did he do? He took a helicopter, came to Meirades and there, with all the honours — another outrage at democratic historical memory — he gave the title of great Spain, Marquis's Marquis, to the daughter of the great dictator. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u137	A first clarification of the noble titles. We proposed to include here the noble titles granted by the Royal House to the Franco family, because that is what is directly related to the palace of Meiraes, and we are going to maintain this position. Since the rest of us, too, and the BNG has already defended initiatives in this direction, but it has no problem with the central government to do so. What are they waiting for? Even they could have done so since 1982, because if there is the dukedom of Mola, of Queipo de Llano, of Yagüe, of Moscow, etc., etc., it's because the governments of the state, of one sign and another, they were transmitted successively over all these years. So here are few lessons to teach. On this subject, on the subject of Meirás' recovery, the fact is that at this moment the ball is on the roof of the Socialist Government, the Government of the State, which has to resolve this issue. We say more: you have to address a true memory policy that addresses all issues. It's not worth the whole thing, it's not worth focusing on the Fall Valley, exhumation, and leaving the rest, you have to face it all. And there are legal and historical reports. Or do we doubt the rigor and the guarantees that the Deputy has made and that it has commissioned the Union and that we all approve here, with some nuance? In any case, there were ten months to fine-tune, to complete, to improve those reports, and tell us that this work was done, we know it, and it was not present when it was decided to present it for reasons that one day they will know. And look, Mrs. Burgo, cordially, this isn't about putting the dead on top of the rostrum, because dead and killed dramatically everywhere, is it not? It's about being loyal to his memory and his ideals, that's what it's all about. [[Applause]] And to be loyal to his memory and his ideals, what needs to be done is the pervivence of franchiseism in institutions, also in courts of Justice that say those laws that favor the interests of the Franco family, too. [[Applause]] Because the entire judiciary has maintained its dictatorship to transition and democracy, and that's why things happen. The best way is to also be faithful and loyal and ending with all that frankism that proliferates, beginning with what is present in Galicia, so it is still displayed in those towers of Meiraes, which today are the tower of exaltation of franchiseism, but tomorrow, in a not very far-sighted past, must be a place of exaltation of collective dignity and honor to the memory of all the victims. And that's why we make a compromise proposal, which says: "The Galician Parliament, in view of the lack of response of the Central Government to the unanimous agreement of 12 July 2018, agrees as a resolution to reiterate the demand of the Central Government to urgently initiate the relevant legal actions to recover the peace of Meiras for the public heritage. As a matter of fact, this Parliament is rejecting the use of this BIC to support the Franco-French dictatorship and the dictator and demand that the necessary actions be carried out to leave the noble titles of the Signorio de Meirás and the Duchy of Franco void. Parliament urges the Union to transfer this agreement to the Government of the State." [[Applause]] Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u138	Thank you, Mr Bará. Do me a favor, give me the deal. Thank you. [[Mr. Bará Torres gives Mr. President a document.]] Then, after the debate on non-legislative proposals, we proceed to the vote on the proposals. Close the doors, please. We begin by voting for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea on the initiative of Mr Anton Sánchez. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. Yes, Mr. Losada? [[Mr. Losada Álvarez asks for the floor]] Do you accept the vote? [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Okay, all right, that's how I like it. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] What point do you want? Both of you separately. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Let's vote point one. We vote. Voting of point 1 of the Proposal is not G.P.'s law. in Marea, at the initiative of Mr. Antón Sánchez García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the request for authorization of the copper mining project in the Town Councils of Touro and Pino, the pollution produced by the former mine and the company's failure to comply with the restoration and regeneration. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 39; abstentions, 12. The result of the vote is negative. This point is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u139	Let us now vote on the second point. We vote. Voting of point 2 of the Proposal is not G.P.'s law. in Marea, at the initiative of Mr. Antón Sánchez García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the request for authorization of the copper mining project in the Town Councils of Touro and Pino, the pollution produced by the former mine and the company's failure to comply with the restoration and regeneration. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This point is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u140	We are now voting for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea on the initiative of Mr Francisco Casal. The amendment of the Bloc Parliamentary Group is accepted and the amendment of the People's Group is not accepted. We vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Sorry! I wasn't informed about this matter. I have noted here that if I accepted that of the Bloc, and not that of the Popular Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u141	No, there's a mistake. There is a transaction accepted by all groups.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u142	I don't have that transaction. If you read it or bring me in. I didn't have it. If they don't get me to the presidency, I can hardly get to know her. Read it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u143	They have all the groups.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u144	Do all groups know her? Do you agree? Well, we're going to vote for it. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr. Francisco Casal Vidal, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece and the demand to be made to the Ministry of Industry and Tourism in relation to the situation in which the company Isowat Made, of the Invertaresa group, is located. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. This non-law proposal is therefore adopted by 70 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u145	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Teresa Egerique. The amendment of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group is accepted and the amendment of the En Marea Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Is there still a transaction? Let's see.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u146	There's a point vote. The first point is our non-law proposal and the second would be the amendment to add to the Nationalist Block of Wales.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u147	Do you ask for a point-by-point vote?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u148	No, at the request of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u149	I didn't understand before. Well, they vote for points. Point one at a time. We vote. Vote of point 1 of the proposed non-law G.P. The people of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera and seven other Members, on the impetus to the central government to continue its management and to push for the necessary regulatory changes to improve the system of contribution and socio-work protection of people working on the sea. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 69. The voting is positive. This point was therefore adopted by 69 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u150	Let us now vote on the second point. We vote. Vote of point 2 of the proposed non-law of the G.P. The people of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera and seven other Members, on the impetus to the central government to continue its management and to push for the necessary regulatory changes to improve the system of contribution and socio-work protection of people working on the sea. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 58; abstentions, 12. The voting is positive. This point was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u151	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Paula Prado. The amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group is not accepted. Is there a transaction? Don't you? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Then we voted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Paula Prado del Río and twelve other Members, on the demand by the Government of Greece to the Ministry of Justice for inclusion, in the proposal to create new judges for Galicia in 2019, of a social judge for the city of Lugo. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. This non-law proposal is therefore adopted by 70 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u152	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas. The amendments do not seem to be accepted, but a point vote has been requested. Do you accept a point vote? Tell us the point vote, which is also a complex one. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u153	...Nationalist Block Galego, which would be points 1 and 2, and, on the other hand, the self-amendment of the Nationalist Block Galego, which would be points 0 and 3.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u154	0? It'll be "o." We're going to put "o," because 0... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] 0? Well, but 0 stays, I don't know, well, it's better to put "o," I say! 0! [[Laughter]] Because 0... man, 0! Well, you got it, but I don't know... [[Laughter]] [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] Well, in any case, we vote on points 1 and 2. We vote. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Yes, give a voice to Mr. Tellado's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u155	As it seems that the vote is accepted by points, we call for a separate vote on point 3.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u156	Is the vote on point 3 accepted? Well, I keep consulting. [[Murmurs.]] The normal thing is to consult. Well, but another could be segregated. [[Murmurs.]] Okay, right, right! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] All right, let's go. Come on, let's go! [[Murmurs.]] Let's vote the point... Silence! [[Murmurs.]] Let's go. Let's go to practice. Points 1 and 2. We vote. Vote for points 1 and 2 of the proposed non-law G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the demand of the Greek Government to the central government of public intervention in Alcoa in a transitional way in order to ensure the maintenance of its employment and industrial activity. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 39; abstentions, 12. The result of the vote is negative. These points are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u157	We now vote point 0 -- I call you, too -- point 0, point 0, point "o." [[Murmurs.]] We vote. Zero point vote for the proposed non-law G.P. text. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the demand of the Greek Government to the central government of public intervention in Alcoa in a transitional way in order to ensure the maintenance of its employment and industrial activity. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This point is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u158	Finally, we voted on point 3. We vote. Vote of point 3 of the proposed non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the demand of the Greek Government to the central government of public intervention in Alcoa in a transitional way in order to ensure the maintenance of its employment and industrial activity. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 69. The voting is positive. This point was therefore adopted by 69 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u159	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez. The amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego is accepted. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Da María de la Concepción Burgo López, on the presentation by the Italian Government, before the end of the first session of 2019, of the procedure designed to evaluate the implementation of the Welsh Network of dynamization of dual vocational training. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u160	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Julio Torrado. The amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group is not accepted. That's what you said before. What happened now? [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Hello.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u161	It's not for liar, Mr. President. We do not accept point 1 and we accept point 2, which refers to the replacement rate, as added.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u162	I mean, you don't accept...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u163	We do not accept point 1 of the BNG amendment and we accept the second point, which is the replacement rate, as added.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u164	How to add. That's right. And, Mr Torrado, do you accept the separate vote on point 3? [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, no, I don't care. Do you accept it? [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Well, we voted for the first part, as Mr Torrado explained. We vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, the first part, which only accepts how it adds the second point. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, no, no. He explained it. Accept the second as add. That's what he said. But that's after point number 3. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Separately request the vote on point 3. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, now we vote everything but the 3, which then they ask for separately. We vote. Vote for points 1 and 2 of the proposed non-law G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela and da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the employment situation of the staff and the level of eventuality in Sergas. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These points are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u165	Finally, we voted on point 3. We vote. Vote of point 3 of the proposed non-law of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela and da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the employment situation of the staff and the level of eventuality in Sergas. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 25 votes against, 39 abstentions, 6. The result of the vote is negative. This point is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u166	And finally, we voted for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego on the initiative of Mr. Xosé Luís Bará. A transaction was read from the rostrum. Do you accept this transaction? [[Assentment.]] We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luis Bará Torres and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out to recover Meirás' palace for the public heritage and the position of the Galician Parliament regarding its use. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. This non-law proposal is therefore adopted by 70 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u167	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. We continue with the development of the agenda. In this case there is a change, which has already been commented on. A question is now put to the Government, by Ms. Patricia Vilán Lorenzo, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Question from Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and two other MPs from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the views of the Government of Greece regarding the institution of the popular jury reflected in Article 125 of the Spanish Constitution of 1978
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u168	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u169	Thank you, President. Good morning. Mr. Rueda, you are eleven advisors and advisors. Imagine you formed part of a popular jury, specifically the popular jury of Section 2 of the Provincial Audience of Pontevedra on the crime of the rodent. Incommunicado two days to arrive at a verdict of guilt or not guilt, no water bottles during the many hours of deliberation, no decent food, no rooms when you wanted to go to sleep because they finished the first day on the 11th of the night, and then dinner in a snack shop escorted by the National Police. It's hard to imagine being treated so disrespectfully. Well participating in a jury is an obligation, and a right, but it's also an obligation, and in this case it was a skull. And this calvary suffered from an unexpected vision from the Galician Union, which was not on time, an unexpected one that lasts in Pontevedra province for about five years. There's not a person in charge of this infirmary for five years. The obligation is that of the Government of the Council of Galicia, of course, and of your counsellor, in particular, of you, because you are the adviser of Justice. For more than five years, you've been passing by, looking the other way. And that's what the Directorate General of Justice knows about the drawbacks of the jury trials about two or three months before they happen and the other day the Director General told us that there are only about twenty judges in all of Galicia; it's not so complicated, therefore, to make a forecast. Who's in charge of that job then? In the province of Pontevedra the officials of the Provincial Court, which is in the criminal sections where the courts are held with a jury. Is that your obligation? No, of course not. They're the lawyers of the Administration of Justice and the other officials. Well, you don't know why they sent you from the UXT union a request to indicate the officials' functions to the Director General of Justice nearly 20 days ago and they're waiting to sit down and answer them. And in this section, they're the most diligent in all of Spain, it's the most diligent criminal section in all of Spain, and that's what they have fewer officials and fewer magistrates than the rest. But besides deliberants, they're good people, they're good people, and that's why they took care of those eleven people who were part of the jury and would also take care of the eleven advisors and advisors if they were part of the jury those days. The director general questioned the work of these officials, said he doesn't know whether the hours are working, and that's what he is -- as the president himself said of Section 2 of the Provincial Audience of Pontevedra -- the first political officer to have the Administration of Justice in Galicia in the state in which we all know it. And he sent to the section an official statement asking you, in particular, to take responsibility. It's democracy, power division, judicial power, participation in the administration of justice, popular jury... I don't know if it sounds like something to you or if you share it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u170	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u171	...from the Government that actually believes in the institution of the jury.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u172	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u173	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u174	Thank you. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Vilan, how do you ask me if I believe — ask myself personally — at the institution of the jury, of course! But I think the important thing is — I represent a government — so if the Council of Galicia believes in it. So much so that he looks at: in the more than one hundred and fifty -- widely surpassed -- judges who have developed since the Galician Union has competed, in one hundred and forty-nine -- let's say, and they're more than one hundred and fifty -- has never had a single incidence, ever. As I suppose you will monitor all and when an incidence occurs — on the other hand, it is your right and even your obligation — the point of expression, I would have to admit that in the other one hundred and forty-nine, one hundred and fifty, twenty in the last year, there was absolutely no incidence. So to say that because there is an incidence in a Galician board doesn't believe in the institution of the jury, I think it is quite clear that their intention is not that things work better but that it's another kind of intention. Because, then, you will agree with me that things, less in this case, have done well in the rest, which are practically the whole. But, as here, indeed, there was an incidence, the first is to recognize it. You're actually talking about this happening from the first day -- you know that you don't know -- He won't say it in the question; if not, he would also show it to you, but this was in the extension of the days that were initially planned. During the first few days there was absolutely no problem. It must therefore be acknowledged that since the trial extended beyond what had initially been said, a problem occurred in the following two days; therefore, it must be recognised. The second is apologizing to those directly affected. In fact, citizens who have the obligation — and often it is not a desirable situation but must comply with it — to be part of a jury, have the right to have all the facilities, and when these facilities do not occur, it is the obligation of the administrations, of all the administrations that we intervene, to find out what it is. Actually, we have to apologize and admit it. And the third is to know what happened to avoid, precisely, that it would happen again and achieve a hundred percent effectiveness — that we were very close — in the development of this kind of situation. I'm telling you, 150, 149 were without any incidence. And it's been years, uh, 20 years in the last year and there's been no incidence. So you have to know what happened, know who was responsible, with the intention, above all, to prevent it from happening again. That's why you made a government record, so we asked what happened, and so in the first part of this intervention -- in the replica it will give me more time to develop this -- I'm telling you -- and you know it's all about it -- that, contrary to what you just said here, there was no incidence from the beginning and it hasn't been all from the beginning. During the first few days, those that were initially reported, the development was absolutely normal. In this extension, in that extension of the trial not initially foreseen, it was where the situation you describe occurred, which has been described, and therefore that is where we have to know what happened so that it will not happen again.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u176	Replica, Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u177	Thank you, President. At the entrance, I want to congratulate you because you apologize publicly, because your CEO was unable the other day, in Commission 1st, to apologize to the people and all the officials. After all, he had the defamation to put all the officials of all the courts in Galicia on the loose, saying that he didn't know if they were working the hours they needed. On the other hand, I'd like to know if those excuses you've already transferred them to those eleven people -- who could be you eleven -- personally, to each one of them. Because one of them made a formal complaint before the Supreme Court of Justice in Galicia. Mr. Rueda, there haven't been a few days, I don't know what you're talking about. When they left the audience on the first day, which was 11:00 p.m., it was when they encountered the problem. They had nowhere to sleep. Trials with jury don't last 15 days. I don't know if you've had a good time with the information. By the way, it's not an isolated incidence. It's so little isolated that the president himself went out communicating and asking for responsibilities. So much so that you know that there was a meeting of the board, of all the magistrates and magistrates of the provincial court of Pontevedra, including the president of the provincial court, and they're going to issue a statement these days. That meeting is public because the media know it. It's not an isolated fact. You -- I've told you before -- think that the goodwill of the workers who work too much in this section and in all the criminal sections of Pontevedra province -- they haven't done this for five years without a person inside the Galician board. Do you guarantee here that there is someone in charge of doing this job from the Galician Board? It's not because they're doing this job, the officials of the provincial court of Pontevedra. I don't know if it's the same in the other provinces. In Pontevedra I'll tell you what it is. That means you're not doing your job and the CEO is not doing it either.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u178	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u179	Deploy responsibilities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u180	Thank you. Close the question, Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u181	Mrs. Vilan, I have no problem apologizing. To you, on the other hand, it seems very normal to say that I don't believe in the jury institution because in 150 trials there was this failure in one. So I think that's also better to think a little bit about what he said, and see if he can really say it or if he should apologize for it, that I know he won't ask for it. Man, someone will be in charge when there was no problem on 149 occasions. There was no problem. I suppose someone would be ahead and someone would be in charge. That's why I'm telling you, it's important to know what happened and why this time there was this failure. And of course I have the data well, suppose I come to answer the question well. Look, it was reported that the trial was going to last on 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, but then there were two more days. How come the trial didn't last more days? Like it was the first day? I'm not going to argue with you very obvious things. You'll understand I have the data. I ask you to have the data well, because, indeed, we have been warned, you warned the Galician Council, that you would hold a trial with jury, as many other times, and that initially lasted those days. But, look, what we did was — so I'm telling you this intention to investigate, and to clear up responsibilities, if you want, above all, to try to prevent it from happening again — to open a government record at the High Court of Justice. I read the conclusions quickly: "There is no previous complaint in the history of this secretariat concerning the malfunction in the management of trials before the jury court." That's the first thing I told you, first conclusion. "In the present case, there has been a lack of a second communication from Section 2 of the Provincial Court to the Justice Delegation of the continuation of the trial on 1 and 2 April, which has caused...—after the trial, which, according to you, started that day; here I don't know why they are talking about a trial which, according to you, started that day—"...which has caused a situation of lack of foresight in the maintenance of the members of the jury." Third: "A second communication by the section office on the decision to extend the initially planned signaling days would be desirable. This second communication is fundamental. The communication of the extension of the trial has also been omitted. The communication was subsequently forwarded, after the completion of the trial sessions. This omission also contributes to the (...) object of the complaint. It would be desirable to designate by the criminal sections of the provincial hearings in which the court of jury is constituted a liaison officer responsible for carrying out specific efforts before the Justice Delegation. And also that it will be facilitated by the Administration – speaking of us – “a telephone number to be able to communicate emergency situations outside the time of the hearing, in order to effectively respond to possible unexpected events that may arise. And finally communicate with the necessary advance any suspension, extension of sessions or alteration of initial forecasts." — communicated from the hearing to the Galician Meeting. [[Intelligible.]] This is what happened, this is what just happened. You think this is worth saying that Galician Union and I don't believe in the jury. I'm simply telling you, firstly, I apologize to those who have suffered this situation and, secondly, that there will be improvement. There's going to be a meeting next week to try to improve these things and never get this situation over again. I insist, it was one of 149, because you didn't notice that the trial, which, in your opinion, you didn't even begin — so I say, if you don't understand that, you don't understand anything, you're going to prolong. We didn't have that warning. Do you have to be more alert? Of course. Should communications be improved? Of course. Should we tell the people who suffered that situation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u182	Thank you, Vice President. Your time is up. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u183	Of course. He said to exaggerate and say the things you say goes a demagogic distance at which I'm not going to go in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u184	Thank you. Let's resume the agenda, in this case with the interpelerations, with point 6. Da Eva Solla Fernández's interview with G.P. of In Marea, on Sergas' non-structural waiting lists and staff policy of the Health Council
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u185	Mrs. Solla has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u186	Thank you, President. We bring up a question that we debate here every year, and we already know that we do not have the same point of view about the model that needs to be followed in the closing of beds and the closing of services during the summer months. We have held on many occasions in recent years that we find incomprehensible that, having waiting lists, we cannot schedule interventions and tests in summer, precisely understanding that, as you say on many occasions, there is a reduction of some kind of pathologies related primarily to respiratory problems, in this case, people have fewer problems with pneumonia, less flu and less difficulties in that sense. And those beds, of course, and that lower flow of these patients would also facilitate work in reducing the waiting list. This is something we have discussed over the past six, seven years in this Parliament. And you understand that it is necessary, in spite of all that wait—that waits for those people who are not being cared for in time and form, in our understanding—to continue to close beds. In previous years I've said on one occasion that I don't share that situation at all. And then we have an element, and then you say that these beds are always available — I know you'll repeat the speech of previous years — and that, when necessary, they open. That situation does not happen, and we have to bring this issue back here one year because, in the wake of the closure of around nine hundred beds throughout the Galician Health Service one year more in the summer months, as you know, Mr. Almuína, there is a risk that there will be problems in emergency services again. And we've already explained here, in our understanding, how the problems of collapsing and saturations, including those that are punctual and those that are more chronic, in emergency services, are generated. And an important part of it is for the summer cut of the staff inside primary care. A problem which, in addition, is related to a previous structural problem. It's not just that you don't cover your vacations, and I think you're tired of discussing this Parliament without you making an effective solution. And I don't mean the committee meetings, we haven't seen the first effective solution yet to solve that situation. Another of the obvious elements is that cutting into consultations itself, cutting into tests itself, personnel and numbers of professionals makes many people, getting worse, go to emergency services. And so this is an element, closing beds and cutting personnel into diagnostic testing services and all the services that are in our country's outpatient clinics and hospitals, which, after all, provide saturations in emergency services. And so before another year happens, let's bring this question back here. And this initiative, this interpellation, is 2017, you know it, because in fact, every year we have the same problem and we have difficulty understanding that you, even though it is evidenced that the model that they have doesn't serve to solve, because then the saturations in the emergency services come back again and again; but not to close fifty, not to close a hundred, but a figure that is more or less stabilized around nine hundred. A year was about a thousand; another year, eight hundred and something. We're in the nine hundred closed beds. So there's an important element, which is understanding or knowing what the number of people you're waiting for is a query, a diagnostic test, or a surgery. And here you turn that leviathan around, and now it's not who has the information that has the power, but who has the power has the information, and they use it to do nothing. That's it, they don't give it because it's yours. And why do I say this? I've been waiting for two and a half years for you to answer a request for information that I have registered in this Parliament. Moreover, on the basis of my constitutional right as a Member, I have the right to have the information I demand to do my job, and you do not fulfill it. I had a month to answer that request for information, and it's been two and a half years. And I wonder if I have to go to justice I would order you to denounce him, I wonder, because we've been two and a half years. Does a Member of Parliament really have to resort to ordinary justice to know how his Galician Health Service is, that of all Greeks and Greeks, to be able to do my job right here? Because I'm sure you'll come and transfer a series of data, which are the structural waiting lists, which are actually the ones that the rule obliges all autonomous communities to publish. But when we ask for information that you've been asked to do on another occasion, you deny it. Tell me how we can solve this interpellation, because I would like to talk, based on the people who are really waiting and not on the data that you give, the need to reduce that waiting list and, therefore, use the summer, where there's less prevalence of other pathologies, as many professionals have been asked for. But I also remind you that the Workers' Committees union has some report, which you know of years ago, that the number of people who might benefit from the reduction in the waiting lists was encrypted if those services were not closed in the summer. I would like to see you later, apart from moving what we ask you in this inquiry, answer if I have to denounce it, if I have to resort to ordinary justice, because we've been waiting two and a half years for you to respond to the interrogation and provide us with the data. It's my constitutional right as a Member, I remind you. And, of course, if you think it's best not to reduce the waiting lists in summer and therefore, the easiest thing for you is to save some money for the Health Council for another year and leave people who might be preparing those diagnostic tests and those surgical interventions on a waiting list so that after that serious things happen like the compensation you're doing... the last one, because you don't stop paying compensation for negligence, for problems that aren't from the professionals, that are ultimately their problems because they don't have the means to work. This person died waiting for a heart surgery and they just sentenced you because it was an unjustified wait. Unfortunately this isn't anecdotal, and fortunately, many people don't have such an index of gravity as this person had. But there are a lot of people who spend years -- and I say years -- in specialties like traumatology, waiting for the solution of a muscle-skeletal problem that eventually prevents them, for example, from working, something like making a living. In addition, some of these people will be on the ground or not, and we have just talked about the fraud, of which you are responsible, that they commit absolutely all the time with Social Security, when they don't cover any workers on days off. They should also care about those people who are on permanent leave. And this is the situation we have in the Galician Health Service. And so, I think today we have to bring this issue back here, because you guys don't have to break the law anyway, and they don't make data easy, and really, to make a good assessment of how we're going to address those waiting lists, we should have the real data. And I know you're not obliged to publish them from the board, because you only have to publish the structures, actually, but you're obliged to answer me to the request for information. And we have a problem doing the valuation, also applying its amendment to the Health Insurance Act; we have a problem with that. So today, we ask you again here for that data, what are the non-structural waiting lists, see if today. Because you have the data, actually. Mr Aboal told us one day at the Health Committee that yes, that they had the data, that they were variables, logically, but that they had the data, but they didn't give it. And since at the end of the day those with power have the information, and not the other way around — as in Leviathan, it seems — because you should answer that question today: what number of staff will enjoy their vacation during the summer months of the different areas of management in Greece, so that we can get an idea — we ask each year about this issue — and how many of those squares will be covered with potential staff and which ones will not. Because, moreover, in view of the confusion that Mr. Feijóo has with the statute law of the statutory staff, who considers that the possible staff is also done, because see if you can clarify us in his intervention which will cover and which will not cover. Because on many occasions you have the vice to announce here that there are no staff to cover, and you know as well as I do that there are many professional categories in which there are remaining staff to cover and decide not to cover them. So you have to give some political justification — political, because you are a political charge — why they are not covered, and it is therefore essential that you give us the data first. And, of course, if there's a collapse -- but I'm not telling you a collapse anymore, which is what you put here -- a saturation in an emergency service, what's going to be the procedure? Because I remind you that when those people who have been there are a little bit in the gallery—which was worth it for you to be sitting here listening and listening, going out even talking to potential people, and losing your fear of talking to people, because it seems that people are scared and stuck and come here and generate a problem—they report that the problem of closed beds means that opening these units will soon be covered with prospective staff, structurally, which renews their daily contracts, therefore, precariousness affects those people and affects the quality of the service. I don't have time. So we'd like to know if you're going to continue not providing the information and keeping the clippings and closing the beds despite those waiting lists.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u187	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u188	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. The truth is that Mrs. Solla's interventions are good, because she's doing her intervention and she's already doing mine, isn't she? with which she sometimes saves time. I think he does it for saving time. Look, I wanted to say that we're complying with the law, with the law, but it's a national law, Royal Decree 605/2003 of 23 May, so measures are established for the homogeneous treatment of information on waiting lists; that is, this is a matter of state, which has been done so that we are precisely comparable. And also the partial modification that was made with Royal Decree 1039/2011, so the framework criteria are established to ensure a time of access to the health benefits of the National Health System. And also the Order of May 19, 2003 for the normalization of the system of information and control of the programmed activity of hospitalization, surgery and rooms in the hospital network of the Galician Health Service. And also the July 13, 2004 Order that normalizes the system of information and demand control of the programmed activity of external medical consultations in the hospital network of the Galician Health Service. Plus, you also recognize that we're doing what we set out to do, not only that we have real decrees and orders that tell us that we're doing things with total transparency, but that you yourself now recognize it as well. The actual decree and autonomous orders define the record of patients waiting as well as the classification of patients included. Thus, the register includes all pending patients for the provision of non-emergency-prescribed care — the urgent ones, of course, go through a direct route — of medical care indicated by an optional and accepted patient and for which the use of a hospital pending remedy is planned, both by itself and by concerted means. The Galego Health Service ensures, through its information system and its actions, the requirements set by the National Health System Interterritorial Council, which establishes the characteristics and contents of general information on patient waiting times, ensuring the compatibility of data with other autonomous communities, as set out in article 4 of the Royal Decree 605. And it is precisely collected that information on structural waiting lists will be made public on a semi-annual basis. And so Sergas is doing, always publishing information; even at some point autonomous communities didn't do it in June; we did it. We understand that this is important. There are autonomous communities, as I said, that they do not meet these criteria. So it seems to us that it is very important for everyone to know how the situation is and that we are comparable to the rest of the Spanish state. In addition, as the Royal Decree 605 also states, Sergas users have access to custom information systems, appointments and all reports via the E-Health platform. As far as non-structural waiting lists are concerned, it should be borne in mind that they include transiently non- programmable patients, i.e. patients who voluntarily choose to postpone their intervention or because of medical circumstances if the intervention is not recommended at that time; it must be modified — say — to seek the treatment of medical pathologies so that the risk of surgical intervention is reduced. So these patients don't count as they're expecting an intervention, because they really have to be in that situation first. Both the patients on the waiting list and all the patients on the non-structural waiting list, either by a medical subject or who refused to go to a concerted center, do not lose their rights at any time, are programmable as the circumstances in the medical case revert to or in the case of the programming of our hospitals below. But, in addition, in Galicia we have Decree 105/2017 of 28 September, which regulates the system of guarantee of maximum times, which, as I recall, has virtually no autonomous community, unless they approve it in the last few weeks, and we have it in force, as I say, since 10 January 2018, that maximum times of health care and hospital care are guaranteed programmed and not urgent for sixty natural days for surgical interventions, forty-five days of first external consultations and forty-five days for the first diagnostic or therapeutic tests. This is an individual right. We're not talking about half waitouts anymore, as is the case with waiting lists, we're talking in strict individual terms. We thus accept a new commitment from the Galego Health Service to patients, as it passes from a global management of waiting times to priorities for all diseases to an individual commitment. I remember that in this gallery we were attacked by privatizers when we published and talked about this decree, saying that we were going to do everything in private. The data is there, the data is published, and in addition to this day, in this parliamentary session, we are going to give exactly how the data is being published today. With regard to health planning in the vacation period, it must be said that the Galego Health Service plans every year not only the summer activity, but all the activity during the year, to adapt the care resources and, in view of this demand for assistance, depending on the morbidity in certain pathologies, as well as the honourable Member well recognized, which is not the same as the winter season as the summer season, the pathologies are very different; it is also true that during the summer period there is a movement of population that goes from one place to another, there are places where activity clearly diminishes and others may have some increase, although the increase in the summer period is not important, because they are generally smaller pathology. Sergas carries out a plan on which he has a planned occupation of beds both for medical income and for surgical activity. Logically this planning is based on a study that takes into account the frequency of different hospital areas, in each specific health area, in previous years. The estimate of occupation in the summer period of 2019 is based on actual occupation data corresponding to an accumulated period from July to September. This estimate adds a security margin above the actual 12%, which guarantees proper health care at any peak that may exist at that time. If we analyze Sergas data corresponding to the accumulated period July-September of 2018, a percentage of occupancy of 75.77% is reflected for this period, compared to a percentage of working beds of 88%. This data, similar to previous years, shows proper planning of available resources and ensures that all patients have an adequate service for their attention. In 2019 the forecast of working beds was around 88.3%. As an operational reinforcement measure in view of the possibility that exceptional and unpredictable situations occur, which do not enter into normal planning, there are contingency plans in hospital centres that allow us to adopt, in an agile manner, the necessary measures for the adequacy of assistance resources. We have to add that this type of health planning and management is not a peculiarity of our system, but it's something that is done every year in all health services. The use of these resources is considered complementary and subsidiary in the field of public health in Galicia. Logically we have to say that these centres are accredited and agreed with the Galego Health Service, according to the Royal Legislative Decree 3/2011, so the recast text of the Public Sector Contracts Act is approved. It's transparent everything you're doing, always transparent. By the way, in the period of government of the Bipartite the amounts allocated to these centres were greater than the current ones of Sergas. With regard to this collaboration with the private sector, we are working on a continuous basis, understanding that it is important that there is a complementary private sector, as we said, knowing that the public sector is a predominant sector in Galicia and that it is properly coordinated for complementary needs. We've been working on policies that allow us to improve the waiting lists, giving priority to gravity, and we have a firm commitment to continue to expedite assistance, improving the service we provide to our population. If I may, for I would like to make a few direct reflections, which are that we have a lower delay in waiting list patients than other autonomys; we are specifically the fourth on the surgical waiting list. We do an exquisite journalism of the pathologies by our optionals, those that need to be operated. Transparent, because we publish, according to the regulations, every six months. Greater activity year by year and also safety for the patient. More beds and better quality. And medical-surgical day hospitals are also increasingly capable of making the diagnoses and treatments of our patients. So we're going to continue working on the improvement of public service, but starting from a situation that we understand is very good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u189	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u190	Thank you, President. You're weak, Mr. Padre. Look, it's not about keeping some laws yes and no, because the problem is that the Board is obliged to comply with all the laws, not only those that it likes, but also those that force it to contract correctly. But on this subject, where we are dealing with this question, indeed, I have already said in the speech that you do not have the obligation to publish them, but you have the obligation to answer me. I refer to Article 23 of the Spanish Constitution, and I refer to the prerogatives of Members and Members. And I will reply again: do I have to go to the courts to report that you have been for two and a half years without providing the information that I have been asking for as a Member in the course of Article 9? He didn't answer here today, he didn't give any data. I don't want you to explain to me what the categories of patients in the non-structural waiting list are, but give me the data I'm asking for; we have enough capacity to interpret them. And I want us to come here today to talk about politics, because you're a political officer and you're also a public official and you know your duties perfectly. I ask you again: do we have to resort to ordinary justice to give the information? And you should know, by the way, it's not the only request for information that you don't answer, and I'm hoping you'll answer me for data on the increase of our social diseases within the public health service centers, and you've already exceeded the maximum date you had to answer. But on this issue, I want to remind you that you, the People's Party, have already lost a trial on ordinary justice because they didn't facilitate our group's Gürtel contracts. I've been waiting for you to answer for two and a half years. Do I have to resort to ordinary justice? "I ask again." Without that data, Mr. Padre, everything you say here has no validity whatsoever. You know as much as I do -- and we've been discussing it by discussing two legislations, at least me since I was here -- how you can change the data on the structural waiting lists. You know perfectly well that before the publication you can call a certain number of people by phone so that the number goes down at the time of publication. You know the tricks, you know them, because they're public, because you know them all over the world, and there's even been press reports. So in order to assess the real situation, we need to have all the data. He does comply with the laws, but he does buy them all, and he also fulfils the right of information which the honourable Members and the Members of this House have, and of all the Chambers, because you are not above any rules; this is not yours; you have to provide information to Members. Actually, you haven't answered why you don't take the summer months to reduce the delay, because nobody questions that there might be people who have to wait for a medical decision or that that person at that time can't, but that's not the bulk of the people you're waiting for, and you know, you know that. And that situation causes an important prejudice to people, some unfortunately, as I just told them, who have died waiting for an intervention — and you have just been convicted, the Health Council has just been condemned in that case — and others who unfortunately cause them a temporary disability or a subsequent permanent disability, resulting from the delay and evolution of their pathology. And I have relatives who haven't been operated in time and who have some consequences after -- they won't really die -- but there are people who can't go back to their jobs, never again, never again. That doesn't matter to you. And so in assessing that situation, you have to give the data, you have to give the data, to come here and evaluate if that close of beds is overstated -- I absolutely believe it is -- with the waiting list. I believe that no bed should be closed, but from its logic, and let's talk about the health model, let's talk about politics, for once in this Parliament, about the health model. You have to give the data here. I'm done, I'm running out of time. You haven't answered how the contingency plan articulates. I remind you once again that potential professionals report that when there is a closing of units and closing of beds and they open up, they cover themselves with daily contracts, and that's not a quality of care. Do you believe that a resuscitation unit, that a hospital unit can be covered by daily contracts? Is that the quality? Like in an area like Vigo's, where there's a waiting list of the biggest in all Galicia, including the data you provide, not the one I ask for, do you allow to close 20% of all the beds they close in the Galician Health Service? Are you going to close any units? Or is it that only the closure occurs in the public and in the private can it be kept? Mr. Almuña, answer the actual data of the inquiry and please give the data of eventuality and of persons to be covered in the Galego Health Service.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Close the interrogation, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u192	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is, if I can tell you that she's lazy today, she could put herself here with a guirigai. I think there are things we shouldn't say. Look, you said it when you started your intervention, I think to excuse yourself directly. The entry date — you're right — is May 8, 2017. That indicates that their catastrophic hypotheses repeat year by year, but reality doesn't end up like this. He was talking about disaster, collapse. Well, it seems that, despite the fact that you've announced it for so long, it doesn't happen that way. And we, as an administration that we are managing resources that all of the Greeks put on this issue, in public health, I think we have to be serious and responsible people, and I understand that governments are serious and responsible, even in the Bipartite, who also planned the summer season with the recruits necessary to meet those needs. He's talking about saving some paper. It seems you want to leave us in the wrong place, like when you called it "papelucho" "papelucho," remember? -- the primary care plan. You bring here another 30-measure plan, and it turns out that those of 200 measures are paperwork. No, they're not paperboards. See, in the Galego Health Service we continue to decrease waiting times and increase surgical activity: 209,718 interventions in 2018, 4,441 more than in 2017. In Galicia we closed the year 2018 with an average surgical waiting time of 61.6 days, the lowest in that period since there are records; and we are the fourth autonomous community. So, of course, when the government's numbers, which are published, which are transparent, do not match what they mean, we say there are tricks. Well, the tricks in Galicia. In the Valencian country, as you say, they do everything very well, but they have some waiting lists worse than ours. Well, no, Galicia has a waiting list, which, like any waiting list, of course, can be improved, but it's 61.6 days. With this data, the forecast is that Galicia continues to be one of the lowest surgical-expected communities within the National Health System, which says that the average in December 2017 was 106 days in Spain, the average in the National Health System. Therefore, we believe that Galicia is better, much better, despite the alarm that you said. We also continue to guarantee the commitment to addressing the most serious diseases; in priority 1, below 30 days; we are 19.4. We have also created seven rapid pathways of cancer implanted in all the health areas of Galicia, with a response of course exceptional. We're also doing something that citizens are asking for, the highest quality of attention, which is the outpatient clinic; more outpatient surgery. We've gone from 50% already in the outpatient clinic. In consultation, in evidence, we are, as I say, in the rankings of Spain's best, and logically we have to keep working, because this is the effort of thirty-eight thousand employees of the Health Council, so that the citizen sees that the money from his taxes has a proper and proper service. And for non-structural ones, who are so worried about it, we periodically review these medical delays and program those patients who are already in a position to be operated. I insist once again that this waiting list has regulatory mechanisms and regulations for its common functioning throughout the territory of the National Health System. The data indicates we're getting better, but we're not going to comply with that. Our goal, as a public health system, is to continue to work for the improvement of waiting times, based on clinical criteria and priority based on the severity of our patients. We preferred the freedom of choice of center at the moment of intervention for those patients who wish to do so and we endowed the patient with more rights; more security, as I said before. And we scrupulously respect the medical approach, which does not consider a certain time appropriate for your intervention. All of this is within the structure of the waiting lists. And, as I say, Galicia is certainly doing it properly and not considering that we're at the end, but we're going to get better. And, as I say, of course, more rights for our citizens, less wait and better quality of assistance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u193	Thank you, Counselor. Interpellation by D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other G.P. Members. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the German Government in matters of road safety
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u194	To formulate the plea, Mr. Bará has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u195	Good morning, Counsellor, welcome to this request, to this Parliament. I'd like to start the intervention by reminding all fatal victims and people injured as well in road accidents, because many times what we read and what we see are statistics, they're figures, they're numbers, and here we're not talking about numbers and numbers, we're talking about people, broken lives, broken lives, destroyed lives, human tragedies very difficult to overcome or impossible to overcome, and we've seen a very recent dramatic experience of three young people and girls in the Roundup area who lost their lives in a dramatic AP-9 accident. So go this first intervention, this beginning, to make a reminder to each and every one of the victims of road accidents. [[Applause]] What I would like to do, first of all, is also a call to concern and alarm, to which all the alarms about this matter are going through, because it is a very worrisome, very serious problem that is also unfortunately not being cut and going further. Figures show that accidents and fatalities are increasing. It's not a particular question of Galicia, it's a reality that is being given throughout the state and that has multiple causes, that are being analyzed, and that requires an institutional and social response that is in line with this challenge that we have as a society. It's a challenge that must be above the partisan struggle. That is why we here have come to propose a country agreement, an agreement of all political and social forces around this issue, which must unite us all and all. The fact that it is above the party struggle does not mean that we have no discrepancies — legitimate — or confrontations about specific matters, or differences we may have in the matter of dealing with this issue, but we think we should agree on a minimum common denominator, which is behind us all. The starting point must also be the recognition that we have a very serious problem, that the data of accidents and victims in recent years are growing. Counselor, as you know, there has been a negative evolution since 2013. In 2017 it was a turning point, it's an island in a few years. In the previous and subsequent — we know well — in 2018 and 2019 — dramatically and dramatically increased deaths. Look, the official 2017 DXT figures tell us that 76 people died. The real figure is that 100 people died. In 2018 DXT data speak of 104 fatal victims. The final data of the Imelga, which contemplates all the victims, also on the urban roads, says it was 138 deaths. And the evolution this year 2019 is still worse than the year 2018, which has already been a very bad year; you know that the data of the first five months of the year and there are 15 deaths more than last year. It is therefore an extremely worrying fact, which compels us to act, to act with extraordinary and urgent measures, and also with medium and long-term measures. If we go to the details of the evaluation reports that they regularly do since their advice -- by the way, it's not published in 2018, we hope it's coming out soon, I don't know if they hung it today, but at least yesterday and earlier it wasn't -- and also in the Midway Tracking Report of the Galician Road Safety Plan, what those reports and these assessments say is that the victims in cities, in urban environments, are seriously and worryingly increasing. I don't have to remind you that there are positive experiences of governments that are facing this issue courageously and decisively. It's not about assuming success or results here; it's about saving lives, protecting lives, defending people's entire quality of life and physical integrity, avoiding accidents, preventing them from being hit with serious consequences, avoiding deaths. We must not spare efforts or measures, however unpopular and critical they are; we know that these decisions are criticized and that there are real political battles on this issue. Today they have to pass the ambulances through the bays, through the steps of high pedestrians; I'd always prefer to pass an ambulance with a certain difficulty or at a low speed that I have to go there by a funeral car. If you have to choose, of course, there is no doubt. He was told that the data on urban deaths — logically, they are not the competence of the Union, but the Union itself can get hands on the task within the Road Safety Plan to reach agreements with all the administrations involved in this matter — from seventeen in 2014 to thirty-two in 2017. This is harsh, it is shocking that urban deaths are duplicated in urban areas, which are essentially, as we know, overruns. They're mainly pedestrians, which are the most vulnerable part of the entire road safety chain, as we know. They're also producing these long-distance runoffs; they're increasing the deaths of drivers -- this year they're very worrying about these deaths -- as well as pawns. The statistics that are published, Counsellor, are that most of these deaths occur in urban crossings. So they're very good, of course, these vests campaigns, which are positive measures, or driving campaigns that are safe for drivers, but the reality is that something is failing, because the numbers of deaths of these groups are increasing. So those measures are not enough. Then there is the subject — which will not give me time to develop with amplitude — of work accidents related to circulation. [[Laughter]] I don't think this is a laughing matter to me, but at last everyone there is the way they behave. Anyway. They are, most of the cases, accidents in transit -- as we know -- and they have to do with the precarious conditions that workers and workers suffer. The reality, Counsellor — and we have to talk about this case of figures — is that the fundamental strategic objective of the Road Safety Plan, which is to reach the figure of thirty-four deaths per million people, is getting further and further away. We're getting further and further away with the data from 2018 and 2019 and, of course, it's practically impossible for these heights to reach it if these trends are maintained. Look: we have come here to make proposals; in addition to questions — that we have to ask you questions, that you have them in writing — we want to make proposals in a positive way. First of all, we cannot hide this problem, we cannot face it from the routine, since it is a secondary issue; it is a absolutely central and priority issue, and we have to, as I said before, make alarms jump. When there was more effectiveness in road safety policies, it was when from the governments it was called attention and red light was drawn that this was a very serious social problem. So we have to make shocking campaigns, for example. We must also change the speech, and we defend that it is a matter of road violence. By the way, this is the expression that the collective Stop Accidents defends. His president — as we know — has just been recognized by the Spanish Medals prize; so let's be consistent, and move forward in that direction as well. We sincerely think that expressions that still keep, like talking about fast lanes and corridors, don't help either, or talking about roads that forgive, because that's what's transmitting to people who drive is that there's a certain guarantee of security. They're safe roads, they're highways that run and they're roads that forgive; if you commit an infringement or an error, the road will protect you, they're like smart roads. Second urgent and priority issue: we must convene an institutional table where all administrations are - because this is a shared competition from local authorities, the Union and the State - to address this issue, and also a social table, because there are many interested and concerned social groups who have many proposals, who have also moved them to you and who have not yet taken into account, and I can talk to you later, in the second intervention, some of them. Third, in the medium term, we must think of a new road safety plan for Galicia. I think we have to get to the task of making a new plan, because this one, which is failing on some issues — because the figures say it's failing — requires a new proposal. It's exhausted, it's already in the final phase of its vigilance, and this is the time to make enough advance a new plan. But we think that we have to go to the broader frame and we have to be more ambitious and ambitious: we have to design a comprehensive comprehensive strategy of sustainable mobility and also healthy and safe, and that goes beyond road-driven mobility — as you know. Perhaps something must be recovered from this Alternative Mobility Plan which was stored in a drawer when it was approved, executed, executed and paid for by its government. And then, Counsellor, it is very important that infrastructure improvements — I suppose you come here to talk about it — should be done in order to prioritize what is most necessary: the variants and the circumvaluations. And also without partisan allocations of public funds, because if we go to the DOG, of course, we can bring out the yellow card and the red card -- and I don't know if there's any more color -- of all the agreements that you're making for party interests to governments of the People's Party of the Town Councils. If you want, I'll read you the Gaga Agency of Infrastructure agreements, which depend on you, or the Environmental Council or Rural Environment conventions of recent months. We can play a game: you find a council that is not the People's Party. There's hardly any! [[Murmurs.]] That's a scandal, Counselor. In the afternoon we'll also talk about the topic of the Carballo variant. And then, a fundamental question, Counsellor: transfers of competences. It can't be that DXT comes here just to collect. Do you know how much the state collects for fines in Galicia? Four hundred twenty million euros, twenty million radars, only radar fines.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u196	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u197	I mean, they come here to suck -- vampirism -- blood, money, money -- we didn't tell you about AP-9 -- and then, where's that money going?, where are you going to invest? We want traffic skills and road safety. By the way, I take advantage of the question: what was the law that passed this parliament to request the transfer of competences in road safety?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u198	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u199	When will the presentation be created? When are you going to send the state parliament?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u200	Your time is up, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u201	It's not...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u202	Thank you. [[Mr. Bará Torres utters words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. Your time is up, Mr Bará. [[Applause]] Look at the clock, please. Time's up. Thank you. Response from the Infrastructure & Mobility Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u203	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Bará, I take that reminder, and allow me something else: for the victims and their families we will continue to work for road safety without rest all this legislation and forever; for the victims and their families as well. [[Applause]] In particular, on your question, I am glad that you will finally ask me a question — and be of road safety — in this Parliament on matters that have to do with the Council of Galicia. Because I've been answering the BNG for three years in this Chamber and in this Parliament only issues that are state competence. So I appreciate that we can finally talk about something, besides, as serious as road safety. Because the truth is, in three years they haven't agreed on this matter to ask me questions; this is the first time they ask me about matters of our competition. I invite them to think about it. Road safety is a priority issue, of course. I have already reported in this parliament on measures and the development of actions to improve road safety, and I have certainly not seen any particular interest on your part. I compared in this chamber myself last year to talk about measures and initiatives and to talk about road safety in Galicia in that Road Safety Plan. So I didn't see much interest in them, and I didn't see interest in them when we took that Plan 2016-2020, when we sent that initial document to this camera, because the truth is that they didn't make any proposals to that 2016-2020 Road Safety Plan that we forwarded to this camera. I will, of course, listen to you — it is — I will listen to constructive approaches, of course, very tasty. Let me also remind you of that initiative that you presented in January — where you go! — even though you have been challenged by the Director General of the Galaga Infrastructure Agency. I'm delighted to offer you all the information we have and to tell you, of course, that it is absolute priority. Now, what surprises me is that you say that road safety must be the object of utmost attention. [[Murmurs.]] We agree, but with the greatest attention ever, not from now on. You should explain why in three years this is the first time we've talked about it with your party. Every victim is a drama we try to avoid. What we're trying to do is work to avoid these dramas and fight against that road sinality. We have this main tool, which is the 2016-2020 Road Safety Plan. Now they ask for a plan to be a fruit of the dialogue and they say we have to start; I think you're contradicting yourself: we sent the initial document here, to this camera, and they haven't made one approach, not one single, zero proposals. The truth is, we do count on the proposals and the additions of a lot of agents, of a lot of collectives and of a lot of major agents — those that are close to us — and we are in constant contact with a lot of collectives and associations. The views of these collectives and associations continue to be weighed on our views and on our measures of the Road Safety Plan and on the measures of the Galician Union. Because we're talking about a road safety plan that's a living plan, with measures and actions that we adapt, and we're also strengthening depending on the circumstances, putting the accent where it is needed and where collectives and associations also tell us that we have to focus. We have a goal that is to reduce by 50 percent those fatal victims since 2011, a goal that goes along the guidelines of the World Plan for the Decade of Action for Road Safety 2011-2020. The year 2018 is a higher accident rate than the year 2017, and the truth is it's not a good news — of course it's not a good news — and we're worried, we're worried about this data from 2018. The year 2017 was a figure of the lowest, but it wasn't good for the year 2018 and they're not being good for the year 2019. I also say, of course, that when we talk about road safety and road deaths, we talk about human dramas that do not understand competences or can be reduced to mere figures, that is true. But having this very clear, that we can't simply reduce to figures the fallacy and the deaths of our roads, I can tell you that in the year 2019 we've seen the figures on which the roads of autonomic ownership are reduced. But we can't be -- no jokes -- away from reality, nor can we, of course, conform to this data. We must continue to work, with resources, with jobs, with measures and with loyalty to road safety, for victims and for families. The fact is that we analyzed the causes that competed in all traffic accidents with deceased in 2018. We had the last meeting of the Autonomic Committee on Safety and Security in late last year — if I do not remember correctly — and in the committee itself it was said and pointed out that there was some relaxation in compliance with the rules of movement. I think it has to make us reflect on everyone as a society and on ourselves: we have to extreme monitoring and compliance, we cannot lower our guard. Our attitude of course has not only interfered with us, but also interfered with others, so we must reflect on how society and extreme monitoring. At those meetings of the Autonomic Commission, where we are a lot of agents and a lot of administrations, the different causes or competing factors have been put together, which is, in my opinion, worrying. First of all, these distractions: the distraction and the use of the mobile device to the steering wheel, the excess speed, and not the safety belt — almost thirty percent had not put the seatbelt on. The effects of alcohol or drugs are also worrying data, and it also influences the age of our population. But those two factors that I used to say — mobile distortions, mainly, and speed excess — are worrying. It is therefore necessary and appropriate to give visibility to the causes, to take note and to become aware. And I agree: we have to draw attention to these causes, of course, and make a reflection to shorten, of course, this road violence. I can directly say and affirm that we have been working with Stop Accidents and its president for a long time. Public administrations must put everything within our reach. And so do we ourselves — I was the first and you with me — we the first, as road users, responsibility and prudence to the steering wheel, because the utmost prudence never remains. It doesn't mean, in any case, we haven't done anything in the German Government. I believe that we are the administration — I can say — that we are most concerned; we have been very concerned about this matter and have been working for years with measures and initiatives, strengthening above all the infrastructure, which is where we have the most direct competences: the conservation of roads; this winter viability plan; the firm reinforcement plan; the path plan, which is an alternative mobility and which we are implementing, with useful, safe and comfortable paths — especially safe —; that strategy for eliminating all the traffic jams on the roads in which we have competition, which are owned by the Junta de Galicia, that elimination of all the black spots in this legislation; or the removal of obstacles on the roads, those roads that are forgiven. And let me tell you it's an international technical concept, because these are roads that give you a second chance. In specific actions of road safety we can also talk about many: in particular, an example can be Seixalbo, in Ourense, or Curtis. New infrastructures, too, and we're culminating, like Morrazo's highway. But we also need another type of awareness-raising and education initiatives, which are very important, to think of something priority that we need to keep in mind all the administrations and all of us, which are these vulnerable users or users on our roads, which are pedestrians, cyclists and also drivers, but above all our pawns: that metro and medium awareness campaign that we put in place with the continued collaboration of the Galician Cycling Federation to promote this respect and that coexistence with the different road users; that campaign against distractions, of course, because what we learn from little is never forgotten, because it is one of the most frequent causes; to distribute reflective elements, because it is important to be seen on our roads; to promote safe driving courses; that campaign for our children, for our children — because what we learn from little is never forgotten — "The heart is on your side", to educate our children, working with our DXT and the civilian Guard; and also to step up our bikes from the road to work. This same year we are finalizing the project to signal the roads often used by cyclists, those routes, with an investment by the Galician Union of two hundred thousand euros to bid and execute them this year. And we also have a partnership proposal that we proposed to the state, because we want the state to do the same thing that we are doing on the roads of its title. Finally, a living road safety plan that we continue to strengthen in our day-to-day lives. For my part, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u204	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u205	Counsellor, the BNG has come here to propose an agreement, a country agreement, of all political forces and of all social groups, and its answer is that we are not interested in this matter. It seems regrettable to us that you say this when it's a question that we say has the utmost transcendence, that we should be worried about everyone and that we have to put everyone on our side to find solutions. You know perfectly well that in this legislation since the first day, and in my particular case, since I had an intervention in Commission 2nd, this was a priority and recurring issue, as well as in the plenary. And this afternoon we're going to ask you about the variant of Carballo, which has to do with this question. You can't say that the BNG has not turned this matter into an absolutely priority matter. But we can also say that we preach with the example, Counselor. You know perfectly well that where BNG has government responsibilities in administrations, for example, in the Pontevedra Council or, for example, in the Pontevedra Deputy, this is a absolutely central and priority issue, and these administrations are being recognized for their good results in this matter. I've already told you here in other debates that many lives have been saved in recent years, because the number of deaths in Pontevedra per annum was eight, ten or twelve people on urban roads, and in the last ten years there has been no death. Something is going to be done right and something can also be exported to other municipalities, which can also save lives with these measures. It's not a ballad matter, Counselor, it's a matter of great transcendence. Look: one of the main issues here is speed, traffic calm, effective measures to calm traffic and to protect people who are most vulnerable on the roads, and that requires physical action. Data from the last few months say that forty-five percent of deaths were motorists and pawns. This is, of course, an alarm that must call us to act. Counsellor, we have made specific proposals here: we ask you for an agreement and a negotiating and dialogue table between all administrations; you have to be the local authorities, the Union and the Government of the State. Because you've read us here a set of performances you're doing, and something's failing if you don't get better results. Because I've already told you here: with this trend you don't meet the goal you've proposed for 2020, we're moving away; in 2017 we were fifteen points from thirty-four, and now we're practically thirty, in the 2018 and 2019 data. There are also proposals that have been made to you since the social institutions, which I brought you here also to ask you for your opinion. First, they proposed to do an audit of the entire autonomous road network. Are you ready to do this road safety audit? Not in new projects, across the entire network. Secondly, you deleted the Night Bus — as it is known — which was a measure to seek more road safety in the night shift of the new people. Can we get the Night Bus back? Or, if not, we make another proposal even better: why don't we establish transportation to demand for these night uses? That besides it doesn't have to be a bus line, it can be another solution like taxi or smaller vehicles. Also the bicycle collectives have made concrete proposals that are there, too, collected in their documents, and that they are not paying attention. I want you to tell me, about what I asked you about the skills, which you plan to do about it. It's not a question to you as an advisor, it's the People's Group in this parliament: are you going to process this law that approved this chamber unanimously? And also, are you going to develop, by the way, the Welsh Police Act so that we have an integral Welsh police that also intervenes in traffic and road safety? No longer asking — which can also be asked — the transfer of the entire road network of the State, which would allow us to act more comprehensively. I leave to the end the subject of partyism, because this is really indefensible; we cannot agree. Today it even comes out in the press that you and the Environment Advisor are negotiating with Mr. Castrelo de Mine's candidate to carry out Plan Hurbe if he's mayor of this county. Well, you deny it here, because it's published today in the press. [[Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle speaks words that are not perceived.]] But I'm telling you more: you at the PO-308 signed an agreement to urbanize a Sanxenxo street for 2.5 million euros, putting seventy percent of the council; the Poio Town Hall asked you the same thing across the boat and they have no answer. There's a letter sent to you last October, Counselor; I have it there, if you want a copy. In the agreements published by the Galaga Infrastructure Agency of the first quarter, tell me which of these municipalities is not of the People's Party, if you know them: Alegondo, Lousame, Carral, Coyros, The Paramoso, Vilalba, The Gudigna, Ourense, Beariz, Larouco, Sardinian-Cotobade, Save Mine. I can also read the Environmental Conventions: Ourense Town Hall, Melide Town Hall...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u206	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u207	... Baltar Town Hall, Maceda Town Hall, Vilardevós, Ball, Baiona, Manion, Pattern, World, Cañiza, Vilasantar... I also have here—which are more—the ones in the middle of the countryside; it is a sum and it follows. There may be some, I don't know, I didn't mind looking at them all, but of course... sometimes they put some to hide, but here they don't hide.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u208	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u209	As there were elections, we had to put money on the ladder with urbanization works, improvements in the road network, humanizations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u210	Thank you, Mr Bará. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u211	...made by the Galician Union in the Town Councils of the People's Party. Not like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u212	Thank you. Closure of interrogation, Infrastructure & Mobility advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u213	Thank you, President. Mr Bará, we hold him by the hand when we send Parliament the Road Safety Plan itself, and we hold him by the hand when I came to this Parliament to talk about road safety. As I say, it's a living plan and can make contributions when you consider it as well. But we've been hearing his hand on this matter for a long time. Don't be mistaken: we do our road audits permanently with our own conservation technicians. And let me add: you don't just have to do road audits of the title roads of Junta de Galicia; I think you should know that there are roads in Galicia with many competences. Oh, I thought I thought all the roads were from Galicia, because since we have the competences absolutely according to you... but the audits do them I would say on a daily basis, because that's what we consider appropriate. [[Mr. Bará Torres utters words that are not perceived.]] And I'm also telling you, it's out of date; I'm not environmental advisor, to Plan Hurbe's conventions. I've come here to talk about road safety, not urbanization, urban issues and urban conventions, which the environmental advisor, who is no longer me, makes. It's a bit up-to-date, because I don't take Plan Hurbe's agreements. We've come here to talk about a very serious matter, a matter which is true that it's serious. Our obligation is to be responsible; we want to be responsible and to remain responsible for seeking solutions. Seeing the events, of course, we want to work and we have to work so that they don't happen again. I didn't want to go into as many details as you have told me, but I almost have to go into details, because the matter that moves me here, in your second intervention, is the truth that I'm sorry. Come here to bring me a concrete agreement with Sanxenxo. I'm telling you one thing: if the Poio Town Hall took seriously — but seriously, and I'm telling you the truth — road safety, we'd be talking about something else, because we're investing in the PO-308 road — out of Galicia's most complicated — 17 million euros to make that alternative mobility that you say there isn't. Yes, there is, but on the ground; not in papers, already in the territory, on the ground and executed. [[Mr. Bará Torres utters words that are not perceived.]] Let me speak, please. Seventeen million euros on the PO-308 road and more than four on the PO-308 itself in Poio, and we are doing so despite the obstacles of the Poio Town Hall itself. I can send the last letters that the Poio Council officials send to my Director of the Galaga Infrastructure Agency, who don't have the names of those letters they send him. It's a lack of respect after all we're doing on the PO-308 road within our competences, which are running those comfortable, safe paths and, above all, useful; useful and safe paths. 17 million euros on the PO-308 road; if the Poio Town Hall were more interested, it would deliver a concrete project with its specific need, as the Sanxenxo Town Hall did, because the Sanxenxo Town Hall involved itself in a way that would be delivering a project. [[Murmurs.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm making proposals and talking about reality. I don't know why it bothers you to talk about road safety and talk about 17 million euros on the PO-308 road, which is all sewn with useful paths and, above all, safe; the entire PO-308 road from Galicia. I'd like the rest of the administrations to be doing the same thing that we're doing on comfortable pedestrian paths and, above all, safe and useful. In any case, I ask for sensitivity and responsibility; we are applying it. Tell me about Christmas and public transport: Your Honor, the Pontevedra Town Hall puts on public transport and so, when you preach with the example, we'll keep talking. The Pontevedra Town Hall has public transportation? [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, no, no, no. Do you have urban transportation? No, no, no, no. Are you bound by law? Yes. Put? No, no, no, no. So when we talk about public transport, I'd like you to bring me good news today and say that the Pontevedra Town Hall will finally implement a public transport to bet on road safety and finally comply with the law on public transport. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You brought him here by public transport. I didn't bring him here. But anyway, we've been talking about road safety, because that's what we want to talk about, and that's what I think we should talk about. We're talking about an accident in which the incidence rate on the road — which is the state of the road — is very low: one percent. I don't say it, say it to DXT itself. We are with budgets, with investments, with that plan of firm reinforcements -- we are talking about investments that exceed seventy-five million euros -- with that strategy of elimination of all black points that we want to eliminate in this legislation; with paths, which we have built a hundred kilometers and we want to reach a hundred miles in this legislation; with that specific plan of works of passage, which we want to extend to walls and clouds, and intensify work with new measures and with that great effort. We also call on the State, for example, to cooperate with that protocol that we transferred to the Government of Spain in the Committee on Road Safety, to ask for the same thing that we are doing; we do not ask the State, on the roads of the State, more than we are doing. Therefore, involvement, commitment and, ladies and gentlemen, of course, prudence, because we are the first to set an example. For my part, that's all. I am, of course, open to every covenant possible for road safety. For my part, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u214	Thank you. Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and two other members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to the social phenomenon of unwanted loneliness
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u215	Mr. Torrado has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u216	Thank you, President. Good day again. Good morning, Counselor. About one hundred and twenty-five thousand or one hundred thirty thousand Greeks over sixty-five years live alone, twice as long as we take all the cities. But, from our point of view, despite the fact that unwanted loneliness is, of course, a necessary circumstance to deal with, it is particularly worrying — or at least so we consider — for public administrations in the case of older people, in this case — to take this data — of the sixty-five years: about one hundred and thirty thousand greater. You're sure you know the same scene that most of us probably know or recognize without any problem: to live or be near someone who normally lives alone or who, though one doesn't know that he lives alone, easily detects. Because they usually talk a lot, they have the will to talk, they talk, and sometimes they get conversations from nothing, from anything, and they never end the conversation, and you have the feeling that -- if you're not aware of the reality you're in -- they're talking to you about anything. And the feeling is normal, because recently a study in Britain pointed out that two hundred thousand older than sixty-five years in Britain spends at least a month or so without talking to a friend or a relative. Those we like to talk to wouldn't be able to spend a whole day, but a whole month without talking to a relative or a friend. There are situations — you are sure — that you read them with concern, like any one you see — of older people who suffer from a home accident or who have a disease and who take many days to be detected. You know, it's not a matter of getting into these deep reflections that we often do, but we live too fast, and we can't understand that sometimes there are other speeds in this life, and we don't answer many times when we spend the days visiting or asking, just asking. This is a reality that affects people who, in addition, have a greater life-threatening difficulty: they have more mobility problems. We have a fairly scattered population and many older people have difficulties or it costs them to get out of the environment where they grew up and where they live; therefore, even if children or family members want to make them accompany them to cities, it's also taken them out of their vital core, and that's very hard personally as well. It's hard to compare that experience in which the children are often in the city and the older ones are in the villages or in the villages and there's a distance that, in the end, is going to save difficultly. Those people, the fruit of this ageing population and the spread of our population, are beginning to be isolated, because their social relationships are beginning to be smaller, because they have more difficulty getting out of the house, because they have less desire... they are often cases of widows and, therefore, they go through more difficult emotional processes. The whole context leads these people to have a very difficult personal situation. This is a reality that obviously affects populations — as Galicia can do — where this dispersed and aging population causes this situation. It is true that this is not a case where Galicia has more numerically or statistically than other places — you know it — and it is true that, probably by a matter of character or social nature, we do not have that difficulty or that impediment that other cultures have; we are Latinos and therefore we have a greater appreciation of social relationships. If much more happens in other countries, but it does not cease to occur in an important measure in ours as well. Britain, recently, has just given a fairly broad dimension to this problem and has created the well-known Ministry of Soysty, basically devoted to this structure. There are other measures in other far-reaching European countries where they propose or work to reduce this impact. Because? First, on a moral issue: they're our biggest ones, and so it's not just a matter of respect, but we're because they were and therefore it's a matter of debt. But because it's a very important part of our population and we're leaving it sometimes, and I think we all, in part, have a share of responsibility for it. In Britain, as I say, they have these measures. There are others designed to create aid networks, some certainly clever in Britain itself; also in France, where they rely on the portfolio system, the postal system. Wallets are often known to a reality that is not easy for other professions, because their profession is to play at the doors of many people, and they know how nobody knows the reality of many populations. Hardly any profession knows so much — thinking of Galicia — all the corners of Galicia as well as the wallets and wallets, it is surprising. There are a lot of populations where the staff in the pharmacy has that relationship and knows it in a very direct way. The truth and it's useful to think that we have a lot of networks that we don't use, and there are ways of using them: in Britain they see this as a state problem and the wallets are working on this; in France it's also a state problem but we have to pay -- everything has ideological models -- we don't have to pay much, but we have to pay, and it's paying for a mailman to visit your relatives and tell you how they are. Still, these are measures that would be interesting to evaluate. We do not really know that innovative measures exist in Galicia in this regard. We think there's a certain stagnation; probably a recognition of reality, but beyond recognition, nothing. In the administration there are some questions that could have been asked and some that can be done. From what could have been done, from this point of view, we are in a warm position, because we are condescending; lucid in the sense that there are demoleptic data: in ten years of Government Feijóo, public residence squares, public direct management, there are zero. So it's very difficult to assume that the public system is defending that our seniors can have some solutions. It's true that this isn't a solution that leaves them at home, but they should have that opportunity, and there's zero direct public management; there's some places that are built to be handled by some companies. It's not the reason for this inquiry, but you know what we think of these companies and I would probably give you a lot of debate. But that's the reality: zero public management in that sense. At some point there was some project, or it was announced, at least — not being your advisor, but I am sending myself to earlier — some intergenerational housing project, a good project. A good project that was born with some success in Alicante and extended to cities like Madrid or Barcelona. These are projects with which you now don't know what's going to happen in Madrid, because in this last legislation in Madrid this was a great social project. We don't know what's going to happen now in Madrid with this kind of social projects, even if we hope they don't send them to the retreat garden too, as they want to do with some things. But, in any case, these are interesting projects that are born—if—in urban surroundings, but that allow societies to self-management themselves. societies will manage themselves much better than the market, you know that this is always more complex. But there were these projects here, there was some announcement; some advisor announced quite often some project in this sense, but they were failed projects in the sense that there was no more success, but there were no more news about it. In fact, the reality is that these intergenerational dwellings or intergenerational buildings have never come to exercise as such and have become an empty space legally in which one does not know very well whether to persist in that idea or whether to use them for another function. Not successful, let's leave it there. We have the municipal social services that are usually infred by higher organizations, and I don't stand in political colors; normally infred. If they have more and more jobs and if they have less funds and less contributions from higher associations than they deserve, and in the end, sometimes it also gives the feeling that we are not aware of the work they do. They can't do everything, but they're probably the network that's keeping social coherence and social consistency in our country. In general, we see that the administration has done nothing but worry, that it is not a small thing, but it is not enough. So we believe that there is no policy, so far, which is clearly aimed at this problem of loneliness; I repeat: between the center of twenty-five thousand and thirty-hundred hundred and thirty thousand who live alone without wanting it. Bécquer said: solitude is very good if there's someone to tell. We need to care for people who live alone without love and who, therefore, when they don't want to, that produces a much worse emotional effect; they're our biggest people and they're the people we owe them so much. So we want to ask what is your position on this, what level of incidence you may have in Galicia, what measures you think should be taken and whether you think you should face any, if you have a real calculation beyond these estimates that are made through unofficial studies — institutions and consolidated research centers, but non-official institutes and unofficial data so far, and what measures you still think can carry out in this year of legislation, even though the legislation, in fact, is almost finished from the legislative blackout and the zero inertia of the policy that leads this government, but there is something you believe there to do. On this question we asked him with the will to know whether we can analyze this problem from a common perspective and whether we can give him the dimension that we believe he deserves and that until now, beyond public statements, we see that he is not taking. For now, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u217	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Response from the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u218	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Torrado, very early on. We cannot close our eyes to the many and profound changes that have taken place in our society in recent years: it has increased life expectancy so that we now have many more years to live after retirement, the population has been moving more and more from rural to cities and births it must be recognized that it has been decreasing so that families decide to have fewer children. It's no time to debate deeply whether those changes helped to make a better Galicia or a worse Galicia. The truth is that Galicia today is different from that of fifty years ago, and public institutions need to respond to these new demands. According to data for the year 2017 published by INE, in Galicia more than one hundred and seventeen thousand people over sixty-five years live alone. I assure you, Mr. Torrado, that at the Galician Council we have this figure very present every minute. They worry about us and we are very concerned that there are older people who live alone without wanting to, and therefore, from the Social Policy Council and the Health Council we work to minimize the effects of this phenomenon on what you ask me today. The struggle against loneliness is necessarily matched to what we call active aging, an area where great progress has been made in the last year. Today there is life, and many, after retirement: there are retired sportsmen, there are retirees who travel, there are many retirees who take care of their grandchildren and take care of their slopes, and there are also many retired people who do a number of these things at once. Administration work must focus on giving people the greatest alternatives to their leisure time, from leisure to voluntary action. This year 2019 will launch the senior volunteering program, a pioneer program to encourage people over fifty-five years old to join the volunteering in the fields that they are interested in: the promotion of the Way of Santiago and the Xacobeo 2021, the recovery of the culture, art and popular traditions of Greece, and the placing in value of their knowledge and experience of life. At the same time, we also continue with programs that already have a wide trajectory and those that enjoy and benefit many of our greatest Greeks: Well-being in balnearies and cliffs, which places more than a thousand squares throughout Galicia at the disposal of our seniors, or the Christmas joint program, which gathers every year 200 people older than in Panxon and Carballin's free time residences spend these special dates, so that they don't spend them alone in their homes. In addition, the older people who live alone and need support also have programs that meet their needs: in 2018 we launched the Accompanying program, a volunteering program directed to the older people to solve that need they have, as you well said, of company and also to care for the older people who are self-sufficient, people over sixty-five years who voluntarily decide to live alone in their homes. In this first year, they took part in the program Accompanying forty-five people who were willing to be accompanied by a volunteer in their own home. To ensure that older people contain every day with a healthy meal and a balanced meal on their table, the Galician Union makes the lunch program available to the municipalities at home. It's, of course, a very successful program that we're strengthening over the last ten years, which we've been strengthening so that today dinner at home serves more than 40,000 meals a month for a thousand 300 users in one hundred sixty-nine municipalities throughout Galicia. It is a pride for me to announce today that in the coming weeks they will join this service of dining in the house six other municipalities of our entire Galician geography: the municipalities of Moeche, San Sadurniño, Miño, Foz, Vilamartín de Valdeorras and also my homeland, Ribeira. Of course, one cannot speak of home care for older people without referring to the home aid service, a program where Galicia is a reference throughout Spain. In this year, the Galician Union invests in this home support program over seventy-five million euros to consolidate one of the most demanding and best valued services by our elders, because in a very majority way they want and want to be cared for in their own home. Throughout Galicia there are twenty-four thousand people who receive this home help service, one in three dependents attended. The excellent appraisal that we receive from our souls to keep going every day, to strengthen it, and to push it even further. On the other hand, the Galician Union also places technology at the service of our older people who live alone with the Teleassisted Program, a program that manages the Red Cross. We're going to start changing all basic teleassistant devices into advanced teleassistants for our seniors who live alone and who want this teleassisted service, so that it's complete and have different detectors in their home so that nothing can happen to them and nobody can find out. As I said, you, Mr. Torrado, also made allusion to intergenerational housing, and I of course am very much in accordance with your need. What happens is that here, in Galicia, until a few months ago, there was no normative umbrella that allowed this kind of housing to be put in place, and it was the Galician board that made a normative development a few months ago and created the figure of cohousing so that these community dwellings or these intergenerational dwellings could be a reality here in Galicia. Nor do I forget, Mr. Torrado, of the Convive program, of family hospitality for older people. Through this program Convive, older persons or persons with disabilities are integrated into another family's breast that can better meet their own needs of age or also care for and care for people with a degree of dependence. It's a 15-year-old program that last year served one hundred and ten older people with disabilities. Like many other programs that I come to bring you here today, Convive is an interesting initiative that is already at the disposal of all the people who want to count on it. In short, Your Honor, all the information I have just given you today highlights the strong commitment of the Galician Union and this government to our loved ones, but I do not want to make it clear, of course, that everything is already done. We have more resources than ever to care for our older people, to care for our older people who are in a position of dependence and, especially, for those who live alone and who decide to do so; but still, of course, there is a lot of way to go, and I trust that we can do it together. We are fully aware that not only must we look for the physical well-being of older people, but we must go much further, covering their psychic needs, emotional quality and also personal relationships. Only in this way will we get all the Greeks and all the Greeks to have resources and services to grow up actively and in a healthy way and, very especially, to grow up as and where they freely want to. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u219	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u220	Thank you, Mr. President. We shared some things, Counselor, and disagreed with some other, but I think rationally. It is true what you say: neither is it the object of the debate nor would it be easy to determine whether today's Galicia in some things is better; whether urban mobility to rural or rural to urban, or whether the increase in life expectancy — which is, of course, a positive data — makes us better or worse according to some problems. It's true: it's different. There are also some questions that are necessary to point out on this issue: it is true that there has been rural mobility towards cities, but not especially for older people; let's say that they are the age group that lower mobility produces, as is natural, due to obvious circumstances as well. You announce, propose and defend some measures or some actions that lead from the Government of the Union; I see a general problem to that analysis and some particular one. The general problem: you raise many of the initiatives or many of the lines that act on people who are proactive in seeking to take their time, to understand the need for active aging and to be more active even physically, which sometimes also need it to carry out some of these programs, but it's very difficult or more complicated for some people in this large group than we're talking about. You spoke of a hundred and seventeen thousand and we spoke of a hundred and thirty thousand; well, more or less we approached. It was noted that in one of the examples there is no specific data; you quote the INE data, but there is no specific data from the Galician Union, and it would be good to have some possibility of getting closer. But well, that's a minor matter. You quote questions that have to do with the proactivity of these people. But that's not the essence of what we defend as a need to deal with the problems of unwanted loneliness. Or the Accompanying program: forty-five people; it's fine, but it doesn't go to the essence of what we've been thinking. Because you were saying, "There are pensioners active; yes, but what about those who don't?" That's a good measure of them! There are a lot of unactivated people who, precisely for that reason, need greater attention and a broad effort. What we're saying is that we really need to face it with complete determination, and right now we see tibias decisions. The boredom for us is there, in which you face — with greater or less correctness — issues relating to active retirement is not the subject of this interpellation. Personally, I think programs that have forty-five people for a year need a review, but, in any case, some issues need to be acknowledged, and there are programs in that sense. But what about those who are not so active, usually far away from urban life, who exist to a great extent? You also quoted -- and let me stop myself for a moment in this -- intergenerational housing and cohousing, and, as it could not be otherwise, the Government of the Union is the beginning of all things: there was no normative shelter and now there is. It's not as simple as that, we don't share that analysis; it's to make a building, then you can give it the contents and the analysis. You say: there was no regulatory support and we started these programs; well, ten years ago, the intergenerational housing programs started in Alicante, it's building. And cohousing is in Málaga, Madrid or Barcelona for a long time. Not everything started with Alberto Núñez Feijóo, not everything; the world didn't start there, the big-bang wasn't produced by him, it's not Stephen Hawking, there are some things that were already done. Take a look: some things do well -- little -- but it didn't all start. You don't have to assume that every thing you do, it wasn't done before, and they got to the board, and they didn't, either, these programs were done. You guys here started or tried to start some, but -- we knew it -- failed. The idea is good, of course, and we believe that intention is good, but failed, like the Telleras program: failed. In fact, we believe that there was an intention to say -- as you said, that I literally wrote it down -- that at June we have a lot of this figure and we are concerned about it. Well, now let's see if we do anything about all those who don't have that active aging so present and who need it, those programs that want to go to those who don't come and those who have to go; to that reality we have to approach. The Telea program is fine in health care -- I'd often hear you discuss it with the Health Counsellor -- but in Castrelo de Mine or in Pedrafita, where it's very difficult to have coverage even of data, it's very difficult to have an assistance program for an 80-five-year-old person to use an application of a mobile phone where he doesn't even have an Internet connection. There are other methods that need to be practiced or used; not easy, of course, not easy, but we can't stay running programs and waiting for them to come to them, because there are many groups that aren't in that dynamic, especially our biggest ones. And in that we believe that it is possible to make some effort more than is being done, recognizing — and we are sure — that they are aware of this problem and that they have the will to solve it, but we believe that until now it has certainly been ludicrous. To see if we are able, through the interpellation and the next motion, to reach some agreement — I think it is possible — to see some progress on these issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u221	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Close the gap, social policy advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u222	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Torrado, in my first speech, I had the opportunity to list the different resources that the Government of Greece makes available to older people to mitigate the negative effects of loneliness. With this I've already told you that I never want to understand that it's all done, because we're responding to the problem, but we're not going down the guard either. I believe that we are faced with a new reality, the fruit of a changing society, which necessarily also requires a joint response from all public administrations and, of course, also the involvement of the whole society. The commitment of the Galician Union to the older people of Galicia is not limited to ensuring their physical well-being, which is essential but not enough, but also to seek their emotional well-being, and it necessarily means guaranteeing them the right to grow up as and where they freely desire it. In my first intervention I will not only list you the different programs that the most autonomous people can benefit from, such as the Health Program in Cutlery and Bathrobe or the Christmas Joint program, but also I have made a relationship with you and I have told you the different programs that the Galician Union makes available to our older people who are already dependent, who are services provided in their own home, which is mainly what they want. They don't want to leave their homes, leave their homes and leave their borders to, sometimes, go to a residence, so since the Unity of Galicia we have to give them an answer to all these older ones and attend them in their own home. You, Mr. Torrado, speak of Castrelo de Mine: at this moment I do not have the data of the number of people who receive teleassistive attendance at the Castle of Mine, but I do want to refer to that in Castrelo do Mine the Board of Galicia has just opened two houses of the largest, a new resource which the board of Galicia makes available not only to leave their home or surroundings, but to receive a service of eight hours a day provided by a neighbor themselves so that they do not have to leave neither their neighbours, nor their family, nor their surroundings. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I assure you that since the Council of Galicia we will continue to take steps to reach the goal of a better society where our seniors can freely pass the last stage of their life and can do it actively and fully integrated into society. Steps like the extension of the home dining service, which over the next few weeks can offer six more municipalities throughout Galicia; steps like the technological development of teleassisté to convert it into advanced telasistence, and steps like the reinforcement of the home aid service so that Galicia remains a reference throughout Spain. But for that, we all need to work together to achieve this goal. I can assure you that the Social Policy Council, within its competences, will continue to develop actions always in favour of our elders, as well as by doing the Health Council. I trust that all parliamentary groups share these goals that we have set, because the well-being of our greatest, those we want and those we owe them so much, does not understand political colors and because — as you well said, Mr Torrado — we are because they were. So I ask them to work together and work hand in hand so Galicia will be the best place to grow bigger. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u223	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the session until sixteen, thirty-four and a half.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u224	Good afternoon. We resume the session with questions to the Government. Question by D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the forecasts of the Government of Greece regarding the approval of the project of the Carballo Circle in 2019 with the aim of starting the works in the year 2020
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u225	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u226	Counselor, very late. This is kind of a second or third round of the debate that we've had in the morning -- dialectical, friendly -- about issues that are related and that have to do with mobility, connectivity, sinality would also travel and security. In this case, we told you about the Carballo variant — which you know well — which is a road that is planned and that connects the industrial polygon of Bertoa, in the eastern part of Carballo, to the road of Santiago, also ahead of the AC-552 road towards Coristanco and also to the highway, logically. As you know, this vial has as its main objective avoiding traffic in transit, which is largely a truck traffic, a heavy traffic coming out of the industrial polygon and going to Santiago area. In addition, it must be borne in mind that this traffic crosses a densely populated area, an urban area where there are several educational centres — a school, a school and a childhood school, with more than 500 schools in total — and a sports complex. It's also an area where people live, where people live who have to cross the road every day, suffer risk situations and suffer the consequences of that heavy traffic — noise, smoke... In short, it is an absolutely vital, strategic and priority work. It's a work, in addition, demanded by the entire carball society and the environment, a work defended unanimously by all political groups and also by social groups and by the companies of the industrial polygon, logically. It is also a work that has been in progress for 20 years: there has already been a motion adopted unanimously in the middle of 2004; this work has been submitted to an environmental impact study in 2007; it was included in 2009-2010 in the MOVE Plan, with a preview of execution in 2013, in the short MOVE Plan — it has to be said — when the budgetary constraints were already known; in 2010 it was hired by the Board to draft the project to the Idom company — so we have actually done that the project is already being carried out — and then it has ceased, something that has not been explained, because we have spent nine years in paralysis. You said it was because of budget constraints, but there might be other reasons. The reality is that it is time to resume this work, it is time to speak with the Town Hall of Carballo and speak with its legitimate representative chosen in the polls, which is the mayor of Carballo, Eventio Ferrero, who is, in addition, present here in this plenary, representing the corporation with other members. What we want to ask you, because the mayor has already spoken to the president of the board on this topic in 2018, is whether they are actually going to carry out and execute this work...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u227	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u228	...that will be included in next year's budgets and start the works in 2020. We want a...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u229	Thank you, Mr Bará, your time is up. [[Applause]] Thank you. Response from the Infrastructure & Mobility Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u230	Thank you, President. I take advantage of welcoming, of course, Eventio, and hope that we will soon be able to come together and talk, of course, about the needs of Carballo and also about the details of matters that Carballo needs. I'm going to tell you what I told you this morning in this dialectic debate that we have today: it's the first time in almost three years that asks me about specific matters of competence from the Council of Galicia, and now they come with urgency. The truth is, it was urgent and not then, because there was a full in the middle since they put this question based on May 18 statements, so there was a full in the middle. It seems they were very busy in that full-time that there has been in the middle since they registered this question. In any case, I give you an answer and I tell you clearly yes, we have a habit of talking to all the mayors and I hope you can talk to the mayor of Carballo. After the constitution of the new municipal governments we will listen to and meet their priorities as we always want: as soon as possible, of course. And of course we're working -- we're working on June -- in next year's budgets, and you're calm, that of course the Carballo variant will have a specific and concrete match in the 2020 budgets, because we've already planned it and we're working on it. We will, as always, work seriously and with responsibility in the Carballo infrastructures and in the Costa da Morte infrastructures. Why didn't you invest Galician Union in recent years on the Death Coast? I'll tell him: he did invest. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We invested, and, of course, you already wanted in the Bipartite to do half what we've been doing on the Death Coast: roads, public transport, road conservation and a free highway. And -- allow me -- I think you should remember and be self-critical, because that's what you might ask yourself about the role you've played on the Death Coast bus. The only thing they did while they were in the Bipartite was three first stones, they didn't pass from three first stones. When they weren't in the Government, what they wanted was to paralyze and block the infrastructure on the Death Coast by taking us to the Prosecutor's Office with an argumentless and baseless complaint. In four days he objected to the prosecutor's office saying that we were working for the general interest and that he had no basis for his complaint. So what you did on the Death Coast was block the infrastructure we want to develop. I'm already ahead of you, of course, of course, that we will continue the highway to the Coast of Death, they like it or not. I don't think they're legitimized to demand more work on the Death Coast, because what you're doing is blocking, paralyzing and taking us to the Prosecutor's Office with infrastructure on the Death Coast. Of course we have in our priority the programming of investments and of course they are in the agenda of this government the variant of Carballo. That's why it's good for you to be quiet, which we've already planned, because we're with the next year's budgets and there will be a specific and concrete match to the Carballo variant. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u231	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u232	Look, Counselor, you've dedicated something like 20 seconds to talk about Carballo's variant. If I wanted to ask you about the work of the Galician Union on the Death Coast, I'd ask that question. Tell a member of your group to ask you these questions of botafume so you can pretend. With regard to the highway to the Coast of Death, you were to cancel an adjudication that was under way, delay everything and increase the price of the works. That was the reality, Counselor. [[Applause]] Look, I told you, Madam Counsellor — and this is important — that is institutional respect; give the message to the President of the Board. From these themes and from these works you have to speak to the elected representatives in the polls, and the people of Carballo have chosen the Event Ferrero as representative. And it will be the next mayor with an absolute majority, by the way; for something will be. [[Applause]] We need to talk to the institutional representatives, not to speak in the rally. Also, some representative of the People's Party, of course, the future as a caternisus does not have any, because the electoral predictions they did there... but, well, we're not going to talk anymore, the elections have passed, and the last water does not move lightly; we're going to look forward. I want to tell you, Counselor, if you have this file that gave the Mayor of Carballo to the President of the Board, because here are the priorities of the Town Hall of Carballo, which is what we have to talk about. [[Mr Bará Torres shows you a document to the members of the House.]] The first work proposed here is the Carballo variant, which, I tell you, was planned since 2009, there has been a project written since 2010 and nine years of paralysis that is the responsibility of the People's Party; the Galician Union of the People's Party. [[Applause]] I want more concrete, I want you to talk to me in response to the Carballo variant, not go through the branches. What time limits? What budget is next year? By the way, the BNG has tabled amendments to the budgets in recent years on this issue and the PP voted against. We want deadlines and we want to know if they're also going to prioritize as a first step — if you're going to do it in phases — what connects the industrial polygon... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u233	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u234	...on Santiago's road, because this is what carball society is demanding...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u235	Thank you, Mr Bará, your time is up. [[Applause]] Thank you. Question close, Infrastructure & Mobility advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u236	I have spoken to Mr. Eventio on many occasions; I was saying here as if I did not speak to Eventio or to the mayor of Carballo. Look: the truth is, we can assume... we can assume by infrastructures and by work on the Death Coast; we can assume by working by the Death Coast infrastructures. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] BNG cannot boast of that, at best: be ashamed of paralyzing infrastructures and trying to paralyze infrastructures on the Death Coast. [[Applause]] Carball and, of course, the Death Coast is a priority for this government and, above all, for the Mobility and Transport Infrastructure Council; although you don't like it, you know it, because you have to say it and we can assume it. Do you know who set up the metropolitan transport in Carballo? It wasn't the Bipartite, it was this Union of Galicia. Do you know who set up the New People's card to facilitate mobility — which is also mobility — to those under the age of 19 free of charge? It wasn't the Bipartite, it was this board of Galicia, of course it was. Do you know who launched the first bonuses on the Carballo bus, AG-55? Do you know who's gone and who's gonna reinforce those bonuses? [[Mr. Bará Torres utters words that are not perceived.]] It was this government, it wasn't the Bipartite. [[Murmurs.]] And also those paths that we're developing, the road in the Bertoa Polygon, I guess who makes them and who pays them -- this Galician board. Also the improvement of the bus station, and also, on that highway on the Coast of Death — as much as it weighs them — we made twenty-seven kilometres of high-speed free pay in the midst of economic crisis. We also have investments and programming for the future on the Death Coast and also on Carballo: we have this new road to connect Carballo with Coristanco, we have this expansion of the bonuses — which he said — of AG-55 and the continuity of the Death Coast highway — of course yes — between Vimianzo and Camarinas, which also serves to promote mobility and improve mobility across the Death Coast. And we do it the way we should do the big infrastructures, which you can't do, how big infrastructures are done: step by step, third by step and third by step; which you don't know. I have to say how big infrastructure is done because we are the ones who do the big infrastructures on the Death Coast: with responsibility and with honesty, because we are a serious government, even if they don't believe it; we work honestly to make infrastructures. [[Murmurs.]] And with Carballo's variant the same: we'll keep moving forward, we want to move forward. We'll do it by stages, identifying those two thirds or two phases that are clearly differentiated, dividing it into two thirds: between the west of Carballo and the provincial road, and that third would be ten million euros, and the third between that road and the east of the village, which is already exactly fifteen million euros. Therefore, two phases with seriousness and rigour, as we have done, step by step and reserve that specific match in budgets to develop the Carballo variant, with honesty and seriousness. You don't take me to the Public Prosecutor's Office for Carballo's variant. I hope they let me do the Carballo variant. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u237	Thank you. Question by Da María Dolores Toja Suárez and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the request by the Council of Galicia to the Ferroatlantic company for the presentation of a feasibility plan guaranteeing its ferroalloys activity, as follows from the decision of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia of 9 May 1996
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u238	Have the floor to Mrs. Toja Suárez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u239	Good afternoon. Let's see if we can focus and concreteize the answer: Ferroatlantica, Costa da Morte. I warn you, because I see the previous answer because if we can focus: Ferroatlantica. To answer this, you have to take into account the enormous effort that has been made by the neighbours and neighbours of the Coast of Death so that today Ferroatlantica can enjoy our natural resources. On the one hand, you have the statement of public utility. This allowed him to expropriate land, where the coronations and the port of Brens were built, as you know, which is practically used exclusively by Ferroatlantics. And even the closure of Ezaro's boiling, which, as you know, opens at certain hours and in certain days according to the needs of the Ferroatlantic company. Against all these kinds of benefits that directly impacted on Villar Mir's extract, what benefits did he get to Costa da Morte? Well, little ones, that's the truth. As far as investments are concerned, they were practically null. There's nothing more than going through the facilities to see what the state of the factory is. They have done what maintenance investments are to continue the activity, but no modernisation investments have been made to enable the company to be more competitive in relation to the sector. With which, that famous oven 23 never became a reality. As for employment, there was not an extension of employment, as it was said, but quite the opposite. Since 1992 four out of ten jobs have been lost, training opportunities have not been increased and vocational development opportunities have not been increased. In short, Ferroatlantica obtained multiple benefits that did not have the same share in the region. And besides, today I want to have a special memory for 50 widows from the Coast of Death: their husbands died because of silicosis and labor accidents. In the current situation, with a sales operation on the table, the board's answer is kind of: we didn't know it was going to happen, we didn't have any knowledge or we didn't expect it. If we sink into that, it's, in a way, worrying, because, on the one hand, it's not the first time Villar Mir tries to give that ballad or it's the first time he tries that segregation. The truth is that somehow you should expect this behavior on the part of Villar Mir, because look at him trying again and again! So that standard response from the PP catalogue, we didn't expect it, we didn't know it, we hope it doesn't happen today at the dean, that they go directly to specific answers and can answer us directly as you see that operation. If you see it well, then what are you going to demand? That famous plan of viability for the county will be demanded, but the plan of viability that affects jobs, which has an impact on higher education and which has an impact on higher investments. If, on the other hand, that operation doesn't look right, what are the alternatives to the Death Coast? As I told you, this question we've already asked before, and all that catalog of answers we're having with the workers, with the songs of Juan Pardo: Galicia, Galicia, Galicia, we've been told before. Then focus on the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u240	Thank you. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u241	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Toja, I don't think you should confuse coherence with standard answers. This government with respect to Ferroatlantica de Cee and Dumbria has always maintained the same criterion, and always has done what it has moved in this parliament. If you remember perfectly, two years ago you and I had the opportunity to speak in this Ferroatlantic parliament, and today I can repeat exactly as I told you in May 2017 with a small difference. What we said in May 2017 was what we did and therefore kept our commitment to the workers and to the Death Coast. Because at that time, what we told him was that we were going to comply with the law; actually, compliance with the law meant not accepting any kind of segregation on the part of the centrals. And in addition, we move with all the strength that we are going to ensure for the public interest, which is exactly what marks the concessional title, and therefore we are going to ensure that public income with complete transparency along with the mayors and the unions, always under the principle of defending employment and defending workers. I regret that the coherence of this government does not like it, but the coherence of this government has made what I transferred to it in May 2017 was exactly what we did, exactly. And what we did was we didn't accept segregation and, therefore, we didn't authorize the company's claim and, secondly, to be on the side of the job defence and the workers' commitments. And that is, Mrs. Toja, exactly what we're going to do right now, with a situation that has nothing to do with respect to May 2017, because we're no longer talking about any kind of segregation. For this administration it is irrevocable that no segregation occurs and that the viability and industrial activity of Cee and Dumbria, as the mark of the concessional title, is guaranteed. That's what we guarantee in May 2017, and that's exactly what we're going to guarantee right now. Therefore, the future necessarily passes by maintaining that unit and the link between hydroelectric power plants and the production of ferroalloys. And in parallel, Mr Toja, we will, indeed, demand that an industrial plan for the future be presented for the plants of the Costa da Morte. The workers know it and the company knows it too. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u242	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Toja.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u243	Mr. Count, transparency, transparency doesn't seem like when, ever since this operation is here, the board has kept silent. And what he said was that they didn't know that that sale operation was there. That's not how it is. Besides, it's that -- one of two -- or that they didn't really know anything, and that's a great incompetence or, on the other hand, they did know it and they hid the information. With which, that's a lie. You may choose either incompetence or lie, but what is clear is that transparency, transparency the operation was not, nor was it developed. That's right. Don't laugh because the people of Dumbria aren't very funny. With regard to the business viability plan, these are the conditions set out in the concession. A feasibility plan is established, but you also know that employment needs to be maintained, and since 1992 -- as we said -- four out of ten jobs have been lost; they also know. So, of course, we have to meet the conditions that are set out in the administrative concession, but you as a government have to demand that they be met and at least investments are not met and neither are they meeting the conditions of employment. But what is actually being accomplished is the great benefits for Villar Mir, which also have no impact on the same proportion in the region. Just taking a walk through the facilities, you can see... I think even when you were looking for a stage for the fifth season or the last season of the Game of Thrones seemed old to you the installation, look at what state it is, it's old-fashioned. So the government of Feijóo always throws balloons out; it does not exercise its competences in industrial policy, and it has to exercise them because it has exclusive competences in industrial policy. The only thing we have is worse data in employment and worse data in industrial policy — as I said — in production — sorry — and just blame the other governments. In this case you've seen him marvel that Pedro Sánchez was in Madrid, so he's already guilty. Except for the ESC report, there is nothing else in industrial policy in the PP-Junta universe in Galicia. So they exercise their powers, demand job maintenance and demand investments as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u244	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. Close this question, Economic, Employment and Industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u245	Mr. President. Mrs. Toja, with all courtesy, I cannot allow you to transfer to this parliament that this Council of Galicia is not assuming its competences in industrial policy. I'm sorry to have to move you that your silence, that of the Greek socialists, is putting the Welsh industry against the ropes because the state is not assuming its powers in energy policy. That's what the Greek socialists have to take into account. [[Applause]] And I regret that the Greek socialists are complicit in the closure of Meirama, I deeply regret it. And I deeply regret that the Greek socialists are complicit in the rise of the diesel. And I am deeply sorry that the Greek socialists are accomplices that Alcoa, at the moment, has no solution. And I deeply regret that the Greek socialists are complicit in the fact that Ferroatlantic-Sabon has no solution because the Government is not approving the status of electrointensive companies. And I deeply regret that the silence of the Greek socialists is setting against the Galician ropes, the Welsh industry and employment in Galicia. [[Applause]] From there if you want to talk about Cee and Dumbria Ferroatlantics. It's just that in Ferroatlantics of Cee and Dumbria this government what he did was comply with the law. Don't talk to me about inaction from this government. This government acted and decided clearly not to accept the request for segregation. This government has an appeal by the company, precisely, for not accepting what the company wanted to do. Because what the Government did was comply with the law, defend the interests of the workers and therefore defend the interests of the Costa da Morte. Because, Mrs Toja, the workers of Cee and Dumbria, the only ally they have in this parliament is this government and this People's Group because, unfortunately, neither socialists nor nationalists are defending the interests of the workers; neither the interests of the workers of Cee nor Dumbria nor the interests of the workers of Sabón nor the interests of Alcoa. [[Applause]] And unfortunately, the complicit silence of the Greek socialists can lead all these workers to a situation without return, but don't worry that these workers will always have as allies to the Council of Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u246	Thank you, Counselor. Da María de la Concepción Burgo López e D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, do G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the reasons for the delay in the appointment of a president or president for the Social Council of the University of Santiago de Compostela
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u247	You have the floor to Mrs. Burgo López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u248	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Counsellor, as you well know, all public universities have a social council, which in the case of Galicia is regulated by Law 6/2013, of the Galician University System, in their articles between 74 and 86. As you also know perfectly well, social councils are very important collective bodies for how much they unite or have the collaboration between Greek society, in this case, and university, and contribute effectively to Galicia's social, professional, technological and cultural development, the improvement of the quality of public service, higher university education and the obtaining of resources needed for the economic and financial adequacy of universities. They have multiple and very varied functions, but which, we summarize, revolve around the planning and institutional development of the university, monitoring the economic management and performance of the university service, promoting collaboration between society in the funding of the university, contributing to the collection of resources and witchcraft. To mention, in particular, two important things: to approve the multi-year programming of each of the universities and to report on the agreements relating to the implementation and abolition of university teachings at each university. It consists of thirty members: six university representatives and twenty-four representatives of social interests, including six members appointed by this parliament. And he is, logically, chaired by a president or a president, who, according to Article 83 of the aforementioned law, is appointed by the Presidency of the Council of Galicia, on a proposal from the competent council, in this case, his education, and listening to the rector or rector of the university. Well, since December 2017, the Social Council of the University of Santiago has been without president or president. Yes, since December 2017, that is, for a year and six months, without the Education Council or the President of the Board doing anything about it. As you know, he has also just resigned the Secretary of the Council and, according to Article 83, his appointment is for the President or the President, he may not have a secretary either. It puts the situation right now, the truth is that we cannot understand how the Council and the President of the Board are leaving this appointment without doing and how they are allowing what is currently the paralysis of the Social Council of the University of Santiago de Compostela. So we asked him what they were going to do about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u249	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Response from the Education, University and Vocational Training Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u250	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Mrs. Burgo, there can be no doubt about the relevance it has to the Union and to the universities themselves that integrate the University System of Galicia the existence and functioning of their respective social councils. In the council we are perfectly aware of the functions that the Social Council performs for the University of Santiago de Compostela and we are also aware, of the situation that this body is experiencing. We've been addressing this matter for months in permanent contact with the compostelan rector. You might say you're not appointed a new president, but you can't say we're not doing anything, because if you're doing it. Indeed, under Law 6/2013, of June 13, of the Galician University System, social councils are the bodies of participation of the Galician society in universities and promote collaboration between them and those of them through the satisfaction of universities of the needs of their field. It is also up to the social council of each university to monitor the economic activities of the university and the performance of its service and to promote the partnership of society in the financing of the university, as well as how many other functions are assigned to it by this law and other applicable regulations. In the explanatory statement you already mention the different articles of the law that regulate the social councils of universities; I just want to remember that article 75 also specifies the functions of social councils. In compliance with the development of the law, in August 2014 the Regulation on the organization and operation of the Social Council of the University of Santiago was adopted. This document addresses, among other things, the issues relating to the members of the Social Council. Thus, according to this regulation, the Social Council of this university — as you well said — is composed of thirty members, of whom six are members representing the university and twenty-four are representatives of social interests. The regulation also provides that the President or President of the Social Council shall be appointed or appointed by decree of the Presidency of the Union in accordance with Article 83 of Law 6/2013 of 13 June of the University System of Galicia. The remaining appointments of persons members of the Social Council will be communicated to the person holding the competent university board, who will be appointed on the orders of his or her board. The order and order of appointment shall be published in the Official Journal of Galicia. The current composition of the Social Council of the University of Santiago is available and can be consulted on the official website of the institution itself. Finally, I would like to remind you that the status of a member of the Social Council is once the designation, appointment and publication requirements are met in that Official Journal of Galicia. The term of office of the members of the Social Council, referred to the rector, secretary general and director of the USC, and those elected by the Governing Council of universities, will be established by the statutes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u251	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u252	...and the term of office will be four years renewable once.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u253	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u254	Thank you very much. Counsellor, the situation is very clear: there is no president or president. They've been in Galicia for a year and a half, your president and yourself in the last few months — your predecessor in the past — without doing anything to appoint a president. What's the problem with appointing a council president? Can't they find any figure, man or woman, with the necessary capacity? If they're doing it, what are they doing? Because it's as clear as there's no president. Why is there no president? Because it's up to you, it's not up to the Council or the Rector. The rector — you know — has repeatedly demanded that they put an end to this inexplicable situation, which can only be attributed to the decision and leave with which you and, in particular, the University Secretariat are dealing with universities. Because I don't want to think that what you're doing or what you're looking for is to silence or not give a voice to a body that can criticize its policies around universities, such as financial, criticized by the university itself, or the policy of titrations, which is also often criticized by the Social Council. Is this what you're looking for? Because, if not, it's not understandable, Counselor. There is no president; it is up to the president of the board to appoint and it is up to you to propose a president or a president. So why does the Social Council of this university, after a year and a half, have no president? Or said otherwise, Counsellor: Why is Mr. President of the Board and why are you yourself, Education Counsellor, not fulfilling your obligations?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u255	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Close this question, advisor of Education, University and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u256	Thank you, President. Precisely, before yesterday at the Galego Council of Universities, we talked about the new titles, according to the three principals of the three universities of the Galician University System, and, as you know, there is a funding plan that is in effect until the end of 2020. So both funding and titrations are at all times negotiated with the three principals. I focused first on the policy framework, because it seems logical to explain and contextualize what we are talking about today. In fact, it doesn't seem so strange when you also made reference to legislation in your own explanatory statement written in the question. The person presiding over the Social Council shall be appointed by the decree of the Presidency of Galicia. According to Article 83 of Law 6/2013, the head of the Social Council shall be appointed by the Chair of the Board among personalities of cultural, professional, economic, labour or social life not belonging to the university community, on a proposal from the person holding the competent board, after listening to the rector or rector of the university. I can understand that in her position as a Member of Parliament she wants to exercise control over the Government and that she freely chooses the subjects of her parliamentary initiatives, a respect which could be reciprocal. What I no longer understand or share is that you take advantage of an immediate circumstance or situation of a U.S. organ to speak of a supposed U.S. government decision in the treatment of universities. The Council of Education, University and Vocational Training works faithfully for the coordination of the Galician University System and is in constant contact with the leaders of the three universities. As I said, this week we had a meeting of the Galego Council of Universities, and the most informal contacts, among them, with the rector of the University of Santiago, are permanent and frequent. The Union has the utmost respect, as it could not be otherwise, for the Social Council of the University of Santiago. When I assumed responsibility for the Board of Education, University and Vocational Training, I knew that the person who had been appointed to preside over this body had on one occasion expressed his interest in leaving this post, if there was no official resignation. In any case, from the very first moment, I faced the challenge of trying to normalize the situation and, to that end, I kept the rector of the University of Santiago informed of the desired profile and of the contacts made with different people about it at all times. That is why, at the present time, the commitment of the Union is to find a woman with experience in the business field and with links to the University of Santiago itself, who meets the requirements of the law and who can carry out with guarantees the responsibility and the functions entrusted to the Presidency of the Social Council. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u257	Thank you, Counselor. The question was welcomed in fifth place. So let's proceed now to the next question. Question by Mr Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and eight other Members of the G.P. Most people in Galicia, on the data of the Health Council on compliance with Decree 105/2017, so the system of guarantee of maximum waiting times in access to public health benefits is regulated.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u258	Mr. Núñez Centeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u259	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. On 10 November 2017, the decree was published in the Official Journal of Galicia, which regulates the system of guarantees of maximum time for access to public health benefits. Law 12/2013 of 9 December 2013 on health insurance in Chapter II refers to maximum access times and the system of guarantees. Thus, in Article 5 of this Regulation, persons who require scheduled and non-emergency hospital health care will have guaranteed attention at a reduced maximum time than those provided for in the applicable regulations for all processes. In Galicia, the times for the processes covered by the regulations become a maximum of sixty for surgery and forty-five for external consultations and diagnostic and/or therapeutic tests, counted on natural days from the date of inclusion in the Patient Record pending, created in the same Guarantee Act, in its Article 29. The law consolidates — and we think it is important — the gravity of the processes as a criterion for the management of response times. During the debate of this law in Parliament, Members and Members of this group had to hear constant accusations that the only justification for this law was the privatization of the Welsh public health and the benefit to the companies and hospital groups settled in Galicia; a constantly repeated fallacy that was not ratified by the figures you were making in relation to the application of this decree, which showed that almost 100 percent of the people who needed health care included in this Law on guarantees of maximum time were consulted, operated or tested in a public centre. That attempt to deceive the Welsh and Welsh people for electoralist purposes, wanting to see a supposed privatization that does not exist, has nothing to do with the actual figures of application of this law and the decree you presented in this Chamber a year ago. I suppose the spokesmen of the BNG and En Marea, who participated in the debates of that law, will no longer insist on their ambition of privatization in connection with this law. As I said, a year ago we were asking a similar question, but time is still running and attention figures are increasing. That is why we would like to ask you: What data can the Council of Health of the Galician Union facilitate on the results of the fulfilment of the Decree of Guarantee of Maximum Times of Expectation in Access to Public Health Benefits? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u260	Thank you, Mr. Centeno. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u261	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez Centeno, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is, since we decided to take out Decree 105/2017, published in November — as it was well said — and that it came into force already in January 2018, the idea was, precisely, to welcome what was the system of guarantees for Galician citizens and to increase within the health service, and, of course, we were all there we could. It is something that only the Autonomous Community of Galicia, as I say, is doing, which seeks to extend all citizens' rights with maximum security. This normative text completes Law 12/2013, of 9 December, of guarantees and health benefits, and is added to the decrees regulating the right to second medical opinion, to the free choice of professionals and hospital center and, of course, also to the Greek Register of previous instructions. This decree guarantees the following maximum times: a maximum waiting period of sixty natural days for scheduled and non-emergency surgical interventions, in the case of cancers, severe pathologies of heart valves, brain aneurysms, obstructions or stenosis in severe arteries, retinal and hydrocephaly—i.e., not only oncological processes—; in addition, a maximum waiting period of forty-five natural days for the first scheduled and non-urgent external visits of rapid pathways of cancer, which have also been created, and a maximum waiting period of forty-five natural days for the first scheduled diagnostic or therapeutic tests and non-urgents, always related to this rapid access route. With this decree, since the Health Council and the Galego Health Service we have acquired a new commitment to patients, as it passes from a global management of medium-term waiting for an individual commitment. Like I say, it's the first time it's done that way. The selection of these procedures shall be carried out taking into account the severity of the pathologies, the effectiveness and the opportunity for health care and the priority protocols found with scientific societies. Select -- as we said -- not only evil oncological pathologies, but also valvulopathy, vascular and arterial pathologies, benign brain pathologies and ophthalmological pathologies. The results — which I think is what matters to citizenship and why you ask me — I think these are magnificent results. From that January 10, 2018 to May 31, 2019, 62,116 patients benefited: 15,667 guaranteed diagnostic surgical interventions, 23,435 rapid cancer pathway consultations and 23,014 rapid cancer pathway diagnostic tests. All this activity — very important, you pointed out, Mr President — was by its own means; what was said about privatization and private derivation is a lie. Evaluation is very positive and shows that we have a health system that responds to what our patients need...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u262	Thank you, Counselor. He's got another shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u263	...and that progresses in the recognition of his rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u264	Time's up. Thank you, Counselor. He's got another shift later. Replica, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u265	Yes, thank you, President. Thank you for your answer, Counselor. I think it is clear that opposition groups have misfired when they referred to this law as a privatization law. We've seen here, or we remember here, what the vocabularies said at that time in more detail. It is clear that they were not telling the truth in criticism of this law, which favours people and improves health benefits by valuing and prioritizing processes for their gravity. I repeat the statement in the first speech: the spokespersons and the spokespersons of the opposition groups should apologize to the citizen for their comments or those of the previous spokesman of the Socialist Party regarding the reasons for the adoption of this law. All those who have seen their appointments for consultations, tests and surgeries ahead of time might be asked; 2,116 people — you have just said — attended, all with their own resources. But, as we said in the previous question on this subject, these opposition fallacies are constant. It seems that public health is being used by groups as a possibility to fight against the majority of the People's Group, backed over and over by the Greeks and the Greeks. The strategy did not work on other occasions when, for example, in 2012 socialists drafted and distributed a pamphlet with a series of lies about what would have to pay citizenship for basic health services if the People's Party and President Feijóo were to rule again. Not one of those prophecies was true, nor was it covered by the cunqueriro's armchairs, nor were the comarcas hospitals closed with the amendment of the Galician Health Act, approved in this parliament. Counsellor, we welcome the figures you gave us today. And, for our part, there are no more questions. I don't know if you want to expand any more data in your second intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u266	Thank you, Mr. Núñez. [[Murmurs.]] The closing round of this question. Counsellor of Health.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u267	The truth seems to be offensive, Mr. [[Laughter]] Yes, the truth is that this 2013 Guarantee Act was completed last year with this very important new measure, not only for the results in numbers that we are reporting, but also because it is an improvement in the organization of hospital services with a fair competition between services to try to speed up the processes, very important processes. And besides, I have to say -- and I say it at parliamentary headquarters -- that this, as was said at that time, is not a closed subject, but it is going to evolve into increasing pathologies to do so. Just like we're doing with primary care. The quick ways that were created in principle for the Law of Assurance, for the oncologic processes with very important gravity, will also be introduced and are already being introduced into the derivation of primary care pathologies towards hospital care. So they are seen with a purpose, in principle, very priority that we increasingly expand to do so, that there is an answer. But that warranty law wasn't just that. I also want to remember that the right to the free choice of a family doctor, a pediatrician, a nursing professional was discussed in primary care. Something that I think is very important too, and that logically has an answer from the citizenry, choosing within the capacity and the broad spectrum of professionals that we have so we can do... until December 2018, for example, we had 398,917 applications, almost 400,000 applications for change of doctor, pediatrician or nurse. Or also the right to have a second opinion, which we believe is also very important, is a right that is settled. And in this rule that entered into force in May 2015 1,379 applications for second request were considered, second opinion. I think it's one of the most important rights and that citizenship values a lot in complicated situations. And also the right to express previous instructions. It is important that at any time in your life a person can decide how you want it to be their end, either directly to a public official or to a witness — family or non-family — these conditions. And we have, as I say, also since 2015, when you started to launch, 8,315 people who decided to do the previous instructions and try to say at the difficult time, at the end of your life, which is what you want to do with it. We have an innovative health care that investigates and what a magnificent professional form and, above all, a health in which the person, the patient, is present in all our decisions and actions. It's ultimately the recipient of each of these measures and advances that allow for a better quality of life. And, as I say, always looking for as many rights as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u268	Thank you, Counselor. Your time is up. Thank you very much. Question by Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the closing of hospital beds during the summer months
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u269	You have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u270	Good afternoon, Counselor. I, on behalf of the BNG, want to transfer to you the concern about the quality and health coverage that is offering to the Greeks and to the Greeks. The People's Party year after year, summer after summer, proceeds to close an abusive and unjustified number of beds in the Greek hospital. They're doing this thing with scurantism, with lack of information, with only verbal communications, with last-minute communications... or directly not even informing professionals. There is never any information from Sergas that lets know how many are closed, where, for how long, in what specialty, what is the justification and when they will be reopened. And despite that, we know that in the area of Vigo they close twenty percent of those existing in the area, sixty percent of them in the Mexoneiro, which has been closed for three months three hundred thirty beds, and in the Canker's candles whole. We know that in Santiago one hundred and ten beds will be closed in Conxo and eighteen infants in the Clinic during the three months of summer and that twelve surgeons will be closed in Santiago's EOXI. We know that in Pontevedra they will close more than ninety, that in Lugo they will close whole units of internal medicine, that batiburrillo plant where they have trauma, otorrine and neurology, or the palliative plant. For three months there will be no palliatives in the HULA, where there is a specialist staff. We'd like to know where those people need that attention. And the closure of beds has very serious consequences in both care and work. In the care because it will mean a greater difficulty for access to health benefits, it will mean the paralysis of surgical activity, the overload of work and the mixing of patients with different pathologies in the same plants, which means an increase in the risk of infections, being admitted to plants other than those of their specialty, with which we will have cascading patients and professionals going from one side of the hospital, the increase in the waiting list, the greater pressure on primary care, the more pressure on the CAP and the saturation of hospital emergency services; and in the workplace, pressure on health professionals to reduce income, so that they reduce their stays, so that they still do more work with less professional, an increase in the unemployment of the health care staff because these closed beds also affect the dismantling of public employment by preventing the professional from accessing this work, and the increase in the derivation of private health care. While this happens, Counselor, in Galicia we have around eight hundred beds less since 2009 in public health, ten percent, and have increased private concerts around 5.9%. We have a cut in the protection of staff, their precariousness and low-minimum staff paintings. I think it would be good if I started to manage public health by meeting the needs that it has and not as far as press headlines. I ask you, in addition to that, when you're going to start doing real health policy and not the coup d'étatres de presses and you think you're defending public health.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u271	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Your time is up. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u272	Unless he had no information, if he got to the screen he could be three or four hours talking here! What happens is that most of the information you have is a lie, but, well, that's right! [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] See: adapting resources to care needs involves the adoption of a set of management measures. We logically have to take management measures with regard to all citizens of Galicia, who, with their taxes, make it possible for this magnificent health system to continue to work. And logically, we have to manage. By the way, it's not just a question of the German Government; there are more responsible governments in Spain. Even when it was the Bipartite, it was also planning summer activity, so it was. So we, with complete certainty, are working to plan and do things by giving the best service, as we are giving citizenship, and, of course, adapting it to those needs. And we've installed the necessary beds at all times, even when there are situations that, as you well know, happen from time to time -- and unfortunately they happen, the Marisquiño was the last to occur -- and we adapted to those cases. The Galician Service, therefore, plans to adapt these resources, taking into account the demand for care based on the seasonality and morbidity of various pathologies. And as a result, it also keeps resources adapted to that reality operational. In planning we take into account the expected occupation of beds, always with a higher margin to cover those peaks that could be at very specific times. Logically, this planning is based on studies that take into account frequency in different areas. It's not the same area as another area, there are areas on the coast that can have a population increase during the summer and in other areas, however, it decreases. All this is planned. The demand over the year is floating and the resources as such adapt to these needs. In the case of hospitalization and the estimate of the occupation of the months corresponding to the summer period for the year 2019, it is based on the actual occupation data corresponding to this accumulated period from July to September. This estimate adds a safety margin above the actual occupation around ten or twelve percent. So if we analyze Sergas data for the accumulated period from July to September 2018, it is reflected that for this period, compared to the percentage of occupation of 75.77 percent, we will have in operation eighty-eight percent of these infrastructures. These data, similar to those of previous years, manifest a proper planning of available resources and ensure that all patients, in all cases, enter when they need a bed in charge of the appropriate specialized service for their attention. In 2018 the forecast of working beds for this period from July to September was 88.3%.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u273	Thank you, Counselor. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u274	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u275	He's got another shift later. Replica, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u276	Your Ladyship, do you think that doing the same can wait for different results? I'm telling you, no. Repeating the mantras of all summers and the same arguments will not achieve different results. What I'm asking you here today is for them to rectify and start taking care of public health. Because that mantra comes down from the care activity. You know it's a lie. If you close your surgery, if there are closed beds, if you don't have professionals, of course, there's no activity, and if there's no activity, they give those results. And you know that it increases population in many cases in the coastal area by the topic of tourism, by the biggest play-festive activity, by the increase in paternality, but to you it doesn't matter. How can you dare shut down twelve OXI surgeons in Santiago? If an Alvia were passed, how do you think with three operating surgeries they would be able to address a misfortune of that magnitude? Do you think you can operate some surgeons who are working in half an hour when they need it? They lie shamelessly! They lie shamelessly! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I thank you for not saying today that bed resources are no longer essential or that beds are important in hotels, but not in hospitals. Because it seems they're only indispensable in public health, but not in private. Because as the public health beds decrease in private health, they increase; and it turns out that in private hospitals in summer they don't shut down the care activity. What a coincidence that only healthcare activity is reduced in public health, not in private! These are the miracles we don't know how to explain. I, look, I could buy you that argument that you're lowering the aid pressure. So I'm making a proposal: since you're lowering the aid pressure you're looking at, during those summer months, lowering the waiting lists, optional personal contract. [[Murmurs.]] Those who only have contracts for guards, make them full-time contracts.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u277	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u278	Hire all the staff from the nursing lists
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u279	Your time is up. Thank you. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] Your time is up. Thank you. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] Your time is over, Mrs. Prado! They're not listening! [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] They're not listening! They don't listen! That's it! [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] Close this question, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u280	As I said at the beginning, I think it's very important that you don't always try to alarm the population by threatening almost with world disasters and without surgery, when you know perfectly that these are repairs in some operating room for a while taking advantage of precisely the fall of activity. We also have contingency plans at every moment. If there was a need, we'd adapt. The Marisquiño was in August, with a theoretically low activity, and we adapt perfectly — as I say — thanks to a structure, to a service that works as a service and, of course, to magnificent professionals who adapt to these circumstances. Why? Because our profession, our health profession, is a profession that, of course, is a great effort, but it also has a huge reward when you see that you can do something for the citizens. Of course, thanks to this system, this service and the professionals we can get all of this forward. Of course, we're going to make planning -- as I say -- the planning that makes all governments, as did the Bipartite, which, by the way, had a higher private derivation than this government. A schedule may be either good or bad, but the schedule exists everywhere. As I say, it is not true that there are fewer beds, unless we start to count — which are the ones that count — the beds of chronics in Psychiatry. It's said that we have to try to empty out the classic psychiatrics and we have to decrease the number of beds; that's where we have to reduce the number of beds. But we're improving infrastructure for all newly renovated hospitals, improving, as I say, the quality of service, and we're going to keep working. As I say, the mantras themselves are those of the opposition, who speak of privatization, of less beds, of as much unemployment... as possible. But, curiously, over months a year, we have no capacity to recruit both doctors and nurses. It's funny that, in order not to hire and not to want to keep health services, however, we are on many occasions without professionals. So we're going to continue in that work. Of course — I said in the morning — the idea that there is complementarity with private hospitals is something that is in all health services, both Spanish and European; they are accredited hospitals and they have a fully — logically — contract in force, following all guarantees and complete safety for patients. But — as I say — for us the fundamental pier is the public service we have in Galicia, and we will continue to work on managing the resources that the Greeks have put into the hands of the Government to do it better every day, with fewer waiting lists, with better attention, with better service, with better quality and, of course, without the fabric of judgment or always attacking the most sensitive service, the service that all the Greeks or a large majority value as very positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u281	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da Carmen Santos Queiruga and four other Members of the G.P. of In Marea, on the stage at which the negotiations and conflict resolution processes are found with the various members of the health emergency sector in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u282	Mrs. Santos Queiruga has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u283	Your Honor, today we have a new surprise on the part of the Government of the United Nations, because we have asked from our group an urgent question about the situation of constant conflict that we have been suffering from the whole of the Emergency Service of Galicia, of the whole, of all, of all, not only of the health emergencies, and you have come to answer, instead of coming to the maximum holder of the Emergency Service of Galicia, which is Mr. Rueda. But since you have to answer collectively from the management of the board, I'll have to ask you what information you have, apart from the health issue, of emergencies that are not healthy. Since the last few months we have been suffering, for lack of diligence, foresight, negotiation and dialogue of the Galician Union, different strikes by workers and workers of the emergency services of Galicia; not to mention those of all public employees, whether of justice or of health, who are also on strike and claiming their precariousness by the management of the Union in the Greek public sector. We have, on the one hand, the 112 strike for work overload, the 061 strike for workers and workers and the emergency and non-emergency health transport of Galicia. We understand that you come here to hang the medals of pre-agreement between the employer of the ambulance sector and trade union representatives, with that signature of the new collective agreement until 2022, when you know that all contracts and all the conditions for these workers are still to be negotiated. But it also does not forget that they are still on strike and there were new stoppers in the sector, in this case of emergency pilots, at the end of May, who were summoned by a multitude of trade unions, and the workers of Babcock — old Inaer — who operate with emergency helicopters, including Fishing 1, Fishing 2 and Helmer based on Alvedro and Santiago, who began protest strike days by the payroll that brought the company up, which has taken a month and a half without justifying this downfall by a second job reform — but without justifying — cutting them or proposing a cut in the salaries of employees from 13 percent to 30 percent while increasing the wages of their high positions by 20 percent. However, we do not get a justification for how this situation can be achieved by the Council of Galicia that, whenever there is a conflict, the workers and the workers — it is just as personal official, statutory or subcontractors, which is their precarious model of management — they have to resort to the right to strike, which we will always defend, because the rights are to exercise them. They confuse their direct responsibility in the management and provision of services that guarantee the Union, on which well-being and security depend — and in the event of emergency and urgency, life — of the Greeks and the Greeks, and do not anticipate, but come to this deterioration of relations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u284	Thank you, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u285	...as if they were a private company. Joining doesn't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u286	Thank you, your time is up. Thank you. [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, your time is up. He's got another round later. [[Applause]] Thank you. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u287	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I was also surprised to have another new health spokesman, so I no longer knew whether the question was to us or not. [[Murmurs.]] It's so complicated the argumentary of the question that I understand that among all of us we say: well, it seems that the greater weight is of health, so. But I think then the sea councillor also has something to refer to; they're equally not very coordinated questions. First of all, I want to make it clear that healthcare is normally being provided, with all the guarantees and security that characterize this service of 061, which is also one of the best valued by citizenship. There was a negotiation when it was the road transfer to try to improve the facilities, and I think we got one of the best facilities we have now at Spain level, integrating both 112 and 061; we reached agreements, on the one hand, with 112 and then with the workers of 061. In health transport I don't come to hang up any medals, but of course there was a conflict between workers and companies and they finally reached an agreement. What we've drawn now is the new urgent transport contest, with a very important increase in economic supplies, also improving services, increasing mobile ICUs and also sanitary ambulances, and also with new services in the countryside, increasing hours in the Lugo mountain. By the way, there has been an appeal which has been published these days that has already been dismissed, an appeal against this contract. Logically, we want the sooner it works, because it will be good for the service and, undoubtedly, also for the workers. In relation to emergency pilots, the health service's adjudicator company is not the one you refer to in this question; there was a change when there was the last contract. So as far as the North Group staff mobilizations, which are teleoperators, are not in agreement on a reading of the commitments between companies and workers, but we, having concluded the contract right now, are now taking out the new contract, which we believe will make this non-coordination or non-coordination between employees and companies resolved. Therefore, the attention of health emergencies in Galicia has always been paid normally despite these mobilisations, with these subsequent agreements and, as I say, with the high level of quality that characterizes it, and is thus valued by all citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u288	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u289	My Lord, I think the question was clear enough for you to clarify yourself. We asked him how the conflicts were resolved with the various members of the Galician emergency sector, so the hierarchical superior of the Galician emergencies is Mr. Rueda. Actually, it affects you and Mrs. Quintana, but it doesn't take it away from who's going to address this. When we talk about the whole set of emergencies, not health care; the word "health emergencies" does not appear in the question. Of course, we're still surprised that you say that everything is being handled so well, when in large sectors of the population they already ironic that no group of workers — whether from emergencies or from other sectors — are on strike or protesting at the Galician Union. Of course, it is very sad that I have this honour to have the medal of strikes in our country; of strikes, of demands and protests demanding dignity, because the dignity of workers and workers and that they do not reach those limits of protest is the guarantee that public services work and work properly. In fact, in all that contest they have to solve, you know they still have to negotiate, but I'm not going to talk to you about it, because we have a health voicer who does it perfectly and that's who you have to talk to. Just like Mrs. Quintana could tell you a lot about the sale of helicopters — which we have already talked about in the committee — of the lack of transparency and outrage and the absolutely bad-lucky... [[Expression by the President-in-Office of the Rules of Procedure of the Galician Parliament]] [[Balbordo.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u290	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u291	...of the helicopters, but I'm going to leave Paula Quinteiro's turn to tell her, because this is already a subject we've been talking about in the other committees. [[Murmurs.]] Actually, as I wanted to talk to whoever was responsible and with the vice president of the country's emergencies, this is the answer... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u292	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u293	...from Junta: come here to say that everything goes very well, when the whole of citizenship, unfortunately, we know it's not. And, above all, the public workers suffer from their private model without being private, but increasingly privatized and precarious by the Galician Union. [[Balbordo.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u294	Thank you, Mrs. Santos, your time is up. I'm going to ask you, Mrs. Santos, to remove the expression "chatters"; there are no "chatters" here. Don't you take it off? You know I didn't want to, but that's called to order. [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga speaks words that are not perceived.]] But also... it looks like a lie, god damn it! [[Balbordo.]] [[Murmurs.]] That sounds like a lie. You have a call to order. [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga speaks words that are not perceived.]] The health adviser's closing turn.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u295	It's a shame that when there's no arguments, we end up like this with insults. No, no arguments. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'll try to answer the whole thing. As I say, I think if they wanted a certain person, they could make it much clearer and say exactly what they need. Another thing is they use this to do politics and not to try to improve public services. With regard to the strike called in the service of fire helicopters and coastguards, I have to say that the Autonomic Administration appeals to dialogue as the best formula for reaching an understanding between the parties and reaching a solution to this labor conflict between the company and the workers. However, the Union has shielded the provision of helicopters against fires and coast guards with the establishment of minimum comprehensive and suitable services for strike convened by the adjudicatory company for the provision of these services. These services were established after hearing the representatives of the workers. In spite of the fact that there is a contract with this company, which is a very sensitive special service — logically — for the attention of the population, the competent advisers sought to ensure the provision of the necessary services in accordance with the terms laid down in the applicable legislation. In the case of fire aircraft, in practice these conditions of service which establish the Galician Forest Fire Prevention and Defence Plan — Pladiga — are maintained in full. In the case of Maritime Rescue — although I believe that the advisor will be able to speak, surely with more authority — the order leaves the services and establishes that the rescue has priority in relation to the right to strike, because the right to life and the physical integrity of people is at stake. For this reason, the air units providing this service — fishing 1, based on Vigo, and fishing 2, based on Celeiro — must remain operational in their entirety, with the objective of ensuring the coverage of the entire area of the Greek coast and of dealing with sufficient guarantees to the maritime emergencies that could arise during the period of strike. I repeat: the autonomous administration is about guaranteeing the service, that is the first and most important; then, of course, appeal to the dialogue between the company and the workers to end this conflict as soon as possible; and, of course, we, within our own interests, try to speed up the new contests. We're talking, in our case, about ambulances and urgent transportation a few weeks ago. Now, in teleoperators, logically, we have to try to make sure that there is a positive response in the end and that the workers and the company agree and restore what seems to be a working relationship of many years, with great effectiveness and very valued by all citizens of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u296	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Raquel Arias Rodríguez and eight other Members of the G.P. Galician people, on the assessment of the Greek Government on the economic aid of the Conciliation Bond so that those families who have the right to a public square in a childhood school and do not access it can take their children to another center
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u297	You have the floor to Mrs. Arias Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u298	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. The People's Group, like the Galician families, is particularly concerned about reconciliation, co-responsibility, support for families and, in particular, the largest and smallest. And we want to talk about these today, at a time when parents and mothers are already organizing their lives towards the beginning of the next course. Since the arrival of the Government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo's Board of Governors in 2009, two of the number of childcare facilities and schools have multiplied, and the coverage ratio has increased from nineteen to forty-four percent in the next course, eleven points above what the European Union says is the recommended one. In addition, in 2005, there was a historic impulse to put in place innovative resources, such as children's homes: special children's schools for rural people, free of charge for their parents and that there is no council in Galicia that cannot have at least a conciliation remedy. In that same year, the birth support plan was launched, with economic resources and also conciliation; we are talking about the Conciliation Bonus, the Care Bonus or the Welcome Card. The Bono Care is an economic aid to those families who, on time, need a means of reconciliation. On the card Welcome we spoke in the previous plenary: it is that economic aid for children born in Galicia, a help to their parents during the first year and, according to the economic conditions of them, even until the three years, they had already forty-five thousand people in Galicia. Today we are talking about the Bono Conciliation: the Bono Conciliation is also an economic resource for those families who asked for a place in a public childhood school and who did not get that place. So what is meant by this economic aid is that parents can choose the child's school where to take them in this case; it's also for those parents who cannot reconcile their schedules with those of the children's schools or who live in places where they still don't exist. Counsellor, today we would like to know what the coverage of this resource is and what the board's rating of the Conciliation Bond is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u299	Thank you, Mrs Arias. Response from the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u300	President, ladies and gentlemen, very late for everyone. It's always a pleasure to come to this chamber to discuss the reconciliation between personal and family life and work life, since most of the Greeks and Galicians believe it's a fundamental theme for making Galicia the best place to form a family. For that it is essential to continue to expand and improve our conciliation resources, and one of these resources is the Conciliation Bond, an economic benefit to help families pay a square in a child's school that is not held with public funds in cases where a square is either not obtained in a public child's school or where it resides in a place where there is no nurseries held with public funds. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bono Conciliation, as well as many other measures that put together the Galician Union so that the parents and mothers of Galicia can reconcile family and work life, is a true case of success. So last year they received this help more than four thousand and four hundred families, which means four times more than they received it ten years ago. Every year the Government of Greece is striving to improve this economic aid, so, ladies and gentlemen, it is a real pleasure for me to be asked today this question, exactly the same day that the Official Journal of Galicia publishes the call for the Conciliation Bonus for the next course 2019-2020. This new call will be provided with EUR 3.5 million, an account which can be increased as much as necessary to meet all the requests received and so that there is no waiting list here in Galicia. In addition, we have introduced two very important news: the application period is extended until October 31 for those families in which there is a birth, adoption or reception outside the ordinary period, and it is allowed that families with children born in December 2018 and January 2019 and that they are going to a childhood school of their choice may request the Bonus Conciliation without having to request a place in a public centre in advance. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we want Galicia to be among places with greater family support services and support for our children. So we'll always keep working to make Galicia the best place to form a family. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u301	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u302	Thank you. Counselor, that zero waiting list that you were talking about can only be achieved in two ways: with political will and providing the necessary resources; resources to continue increasing the squares of children’s schools — as you do every year — to improve existing facilities and also to help families — as is the case with the Conciliation Bonus — that they can go to a child’s school square when they don’t get it in a public. It is as is the case in this Bono Conciliation: you were talking about more than four thousand people benefited last year and more than eight thousand people in the last two years, and I am sure that this year will also be thousands of people, because in today's call, as you said, there is no credit limit, because the credit that will be extended to all those who apply for it and meet the conditions. And it is that their council and the Galician board are continually betting on families, multiplying by three the budget for families since 2009 and making the surplus of the Galician board to be destined, in part, also to social assistance and, in particular, to improve children's schools. By the way, a surplus job we approved here in May and to which no opposition group has voted in favour. They don't seem to care about conciliation resources either; we do, just like the Greek families. That's why we would also like, by taking advantage of your presence here today, to make us, if possible, a summary of what, as a whole, are the conciliation measures with which the parents and mothers of Galicia tell. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u303	Thank you, Mrs Arias. Close this question, Social Policy Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u304	Mr Arias, thank you very much for your approach. I will not tire of repeating in this chamber that never before in Galicia's history there have been as many conciliation resources as today. These resources are well known to all: twenty-five thousand public squares of children's schools, twice that in 2009, and the coverage ratio of children's schools is forty-four percent here in Galicia, twice that in 2009 and eleven points above the recommendation of the European Union; sixty-five children's houses offering three hundred five care squares to our children in the smaller municipalities of Galicia, in 2009 there were none; and up to 2019 there were already five hundred good ones careful to hire on time a caretaker in the face of possible unforeseen circumstances, and this same year you can also afford the service of a playhouse. All these measures are aimed at the fact that the mother and the Greek parents do not have to decide between working life and personal and family life, but each day they contain more facilities to achieve our so-called goal of conciliation. Ladies and gentlemen, over the last ten years the German Government has worked everywhere to put Galicia in the head with regard to the improvement of conciliation, and we will continue to work this way to build a more social Galicia, where all Greeks and Greeks can enjoy a higher quality of life and greater well-being. We affirm it with words and demonstrate it with facts, because from tomorrow even all the Greek families who wish to do so will be able to count on the Bono conciliar to access the childhood school that they all want. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u305	Thank you, Counselor. Question of Da Flora Maria Miranda Pena and Paula Quinteiro Araújo, from G.P. of En Marea, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece to prevent the modification of the salary conditions of the staff by the concessionary undertaking of the maritime rescue service
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u306	Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u307	Good afternoon. Good morning, Counselor. The first thing we want is to send all our support to the pilot who suffered an accident today even between Alicante and Xixon. We also want to greet and send support to the workers who accompany us from the rostrum. As you know, Counselor, we've come to ask you if you're going to do something, if you're going to take some action to prevent the continued deterioration of the Maritime Rescue Service. The news we knew this week is very alarming: a company well known by the Galician Union, Babcock—old Inaer—it aims to lower the wages of workers to about thirty percent in the supplements and up to 13 percent in the annual gross. For us it's an insult that a company that earns these millionaires only has the indecency to put this proposal on the table. We believe that, in the face of this situation, what we need is a clear position on the part of the German Government. Although they said otherwise, it is not a conflict alien to the Council of Galicia; nothing to be seen, absolutely nothing else. They have the obligation to demand this company to keep decent working conditions for workers and workers, and they have the obligation because they've been giving millions of euros of public money to the same company, a lot of money that they've wasted. We're talking about a work of people who play their part in saving others, professionals who are a pride to all, and I join in their answer: of course I'm a pride. The service works thanks to them, that every day they risk their lives, but despite the Unity of Galicia and the company as well. But these workers have been living under precarious conditions for a long time; this is a new attack. The reduction in wages is added to the extra hours that have to be done on many occasions — many hours of time — it is also added to the failure of the nail in many parts and it is also summed up at the time that everything takes with its frozen salary. Unfortunately what the Health Counsellor said, there are a lot of arguments when we have to talk about the management of the Galician Board in everything that has to do with the helicopters, and we don't say that, as well as the Board of Auditors, and there's also a lot of hemerotheque, too much hemerotheque on this subject. What they said at the time was a lie, and the lies were shown when they passed all these years: neither modernization, nor cost reduction — on the contrary, more costs — nor ending the monopoly; the same company that was being kept going year by year, with different names, but the same. All they said at that time, all those truths that were thrown out of their mouth at that time proved to be false, and at least they came to recognize that they lied. Either they lied or they were wrong, one of two; it can't be that everything they said stays like it didn't happen. We want you to explain to us what's the reason, if there's any hidden reason or why they keep providing with so much public money a company that's been showing that it doesn't worry about giving quality service, that it doesn't worry about giving decent conditions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u308	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u309	...to workers and workers who think only of their own benefit.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u310	Thank you, your time is up. You know the question of counsel. [[Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. [[Applause]] Answer from the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u311	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Quinteiro, I will give you a direct answer in this first round of intervention to your question, after you have already greeted, of course, the components of the Maritime Rescue Service of Galicia and the State. This council and the Government of Galicia are going to take all possible measures within the current legislation and our powers to avoid harm in service and under the conditions of service. This council and the Government of Galicia have already come by adopting all possible means which, within the course of the process, could be adopted by us. The first of them in this context, what can be done and what has already been done by the Galician Union was to ensure that the provision of the Maritime Rescue Service continues to be developed with the same rigor and quality as it has been done so far. For this purpose, a minimum service order of 100 percent was issued through publication in the Official Journal of Galicia of 16 May 2019; this affects the performance of the signed contract with the Sea Council for the development of maritime rescue-related actions. In addition, on May 27, we received the workers' group concerned and thus gave a new hearing to the demands they are making to the company, the second meeting that was held in those first days, including a pre-fixation of minimum services, and adding to contacts almost every day they keep with the Coast Guard Sub-Direction. These meetings and contacts, which, as I say, are a continuous follow-up by the head of the Coast Guard Sub-Directorate and the General Technical Secretariat, are the formula for verifying each step that meets the binding legality of the contract that is in force. However, the Autonomous Administration appeals to dialogue as the best formula for reaching an understanding between the parties and reaching a solution to this labor conflict between the company and the workers, also putting all the tools that the law gives us when this solution is available. We assume that, on that positive initiative to seek a solution in maintaining the quality of service and in defending the professionalism of workers, we are and we will all agree. That's why I understand that's also part of the path to the solution. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u312	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u313	Well, I'm glad that, at least now, if you think you have something to say in this conflict, because your first statements said that it was a conflict totally alien to the Council of Galicia, and that is, as I say, published in many media. The truth is there's one thing we're not going to buy from him, which is dialogue between the parties, as if they were parties with equal responsibility. There is a company that seeks to lower the wages of workers — when it has huge amounts of millionaire profits — without any argument and no justification; nor does it say it has economic losses, but it does not give any argument or role to support this claim. On the other hand, it's about the workers and the workers, not about the company they've been giving him money for so long. You can't be in the middle negotiating as if they were equal parts, you have to be on whose side you're suffering from the consequences of the cuts of people who are earning amounts that are insulting. They're insulting amounts if we compare them to the salary that these workers earn every month and the workers play their lives. As always, they recognize the work of these professionals, but recognize the work is not done with words or recognitions that are done in this parliament; they are recognized by the work when they are paid a decent wage and when they are given the corresponding hours, and not more hours than they would have to do. That's recognizing the work of workers and workers. If you're talking about the minimum services — which I didn't mention in my speech — at least say you haven't even sat down to negotiate. They took a closed proposal of 100 percent of minimum services without any kind of dialogue, and there were proposals that didn't put them at risk, obviously, because the workers are the first ones who don't want to risk the lives of the rescuers. There were other alternatives and they completely refused to negotiate and listen to any kind of proposal. Its model is clear: to benefit from a company, because it does not benefit the Greeks and the Greeks or to benefit the workers. You tell me who benefited from the bad news of public helicopters. Who did you benefit? Only Inaer, Babcock, and I don't know if it's Galician.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u314	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u315	I'd have to ask you to see...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u316	Mrs. Quinteiro, your time is up. [[Applause]] Thank you. Close the question, Counselor of the Sea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u317	Yes, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Mrs. Quinteiro, look: I will not allow you to desecrate in such a way that neither the Marine Rescue Service nor the contracts that are made since the Public Administration, which are public and are made by technicians who work in the Public Administration. The price that was given to that contract is adjusted to a prior consultation, which was the one that told us what to pay. [[Applause]] I'm really bored that they accuse us of what their groupmate said — I guess, I don't know if they're part of the same group or different groups, but she referred to you. See: all contracts for maritime rescue were awarded by public tender published in the Official Journal of the European Union, seeking the greatest competitiveness among all companies that want to be presented. Some accuse us of chanchullo, but from 2005 until 2009 they haven't done a single public contest. The only thing they've done was to pay for a contract that was made in 2005, to which they've been increasing the price without making any kind of tender. [[Protests.]] I don't know if that's chalk or not, I'm not the one who has to give the explanations, but I don't like this administration being forced to make shrapnels, because it's not like that. [[Balbordo.]] We do say that the problem is a problem that affects the competences of the autonomous administration. It is a matter of a sectoral agreement of the State where only the State can participate, which is also an administration that is affected, because Sasemar also has competence in maritime rescue; that's what we're saying. We do have meetings with the workers. I think I'm a person who, first of all, says that this service works well because of the excellent work that professionals do in the service, not the company that manages it. I have no connection with this company or any other company. All I'm concerned about is the workers, and they know it well, and if I'm concerned that they have better conditions, and not how they did some, that they didn't have twenty-four hours the 300 sixty-five days and we increased the service price so that it could be given. Don't come here accusing me of lying: I never said the helicopters we had, the Sikorsky S-76, were obsolete. What we always said was they were going to enter the second decade, where they could go into obsoletes and then they would lose value in the market, and the second decade of that is there by the year 2025. In the year 2021 this contract is concluded today; time will have to make new contracts if we follow, of course, in the administration. Others, perhaps, devote themselves to making debts. But let it be clear to you that we, the Galician Union, will always defend the workers who lend their lives and risk their lives daily for serving the Maritime Salvation. Stop lying about this story, because I see what you're worried about, that they were able to delay a question they had in the commission last Friday and move it to today to give you more publicity. That's what you're looking for. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-12-DSPG119.u318	Thank you, Counselor. There's no more business. Finish the full here. Good afternoon to all of us.
