ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG137.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. Designation of Senators or Senators representatives of the Autonomous Community of Galicia in accordance with Article 165.1 of the Galician Parliament Regulation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG137.u2	The single point of this plenary is the appointment of senators or senators representatives of the Autonomous Community of Galicia once the procedure was initiated by agreement of the Bureau and the Speakers' Board of 12 November 2019. The number of Senators or Senators to be designated is three. In accordance with Article 10.1 of the Galician Autonomy Statute, its distribution is made in proportion to the representation of the various political forces in the House, so the People's Parliamentary Group corresponds to the proposal of two candidates and the Socialists' Parliamentary Group is one. After the deadline for submitting proposals, by resolution of the Presidency of 14 November, the proposals of the parliamentary groups were allowed to be processed with the appointment of their candidates or candidates. The election shall be made by ballots in accordance with Article 91 of the Galician Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The names of the candidate and of the candidates proposed are in the paper that is being distributed for the purpose. The box of the candidate or the candidates to whom we give our support — it's a bit complicated to read what I have to read, but that's the case — will be marked with a stamp. If no box is marked, a blank vote will be considered; and if any amendments, ransomed or any other additions are introduced, a null vote will be declared. Once all the papers are distributed, the bureau secretary, Mrs. Raquel Rodríguez Arias, will proceed to the call. For this I beg the vice-president and the vice-secretary to take the ballot box. [[Papers are being dealt.]] [[Pause.]] All the paperwork's already distributed. Let's start with the call.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG137.u3	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG137.u4	Thank you. Have all Members and all Members had the right to vote? [[Assentment.]] Thank you. Let's go to the count.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-19-DSPG137.u5	When the vote was taken, the result was 70 votes cast; votes in favour of Don Jesús Vázquez Abad, 51; votes in favour of Don Elena Muñoz Fonteriz, 51; votes in favour of Don Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga, 59; votes blank, 10. So, having reached the support of the House, they are appointed and appointed respectively as Senator and Senators representatives of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the XIV legislate of the Senate, Don Jesús Vázquez Abad, Ms Elena Muñoz Fonteriz and Mr Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leicega. Congratulations to both Senators and Senator. [[Applause]] Ends the session here. We've run out of this room, but we've already started with the next session.
