ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG111.u1	Good afternoon. We started the session. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. Mr. Pedro Puy and Mr. Antonio Mouriño Villar have justified their absence. And I'm also going to report a change in the agenda of the next session. The Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea has submitted a letter withdrawing the non-law proposal under paragraph 48318. Therefore, this withdrawal will cause a slight change in the agenda and time. All the more, we come to the only item on the agenda, in this case the debate and vote on the proposal for a cessation of the people's Valator. Debates and votes on the proposal for an end to the people's currency
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG111.u2	In accordance with Article 5.2 of Law 6/1984, of 5 July, once the hearing procedure has been completed within the time limit set for the purpose, which ended on 13 April, and submitted written allegations by the People's Valator's Institution — document No. 49140 — the motion for a termination is discussed. And, according to the Speakers' Meeting of 23 April, this debate will consist of a single round of parliamentary groups to explain their position, for a period of between 8 and 9 minutes per group; and will then proceed to the vote on the proposed cessation. So we start with the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, and for this we have the floor to Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG111.u3	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. We are debating today, as already indicated, and for the second time in this plenary, the cessation of the valator of the people for committing — and now confirmed by firm judgment — deviation of power and arbitraryness in the designation of a square and flagrant violation of the procedure. We're talking about a very serious case of plugging, a seizure, a seizure with all the letters, which also affects the People's Party directly. Mrs Otero — because I have to tell you that I believe that this lady cannot be appointed as a valid one — has been convicted of plugging anything but the sister of the spokesperson for the People's Parliamentary Group and the niece of Fraga. In recent months, to the thread of this matter, Galicia has experienced a situation that, for us, for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, is bochornasus, bochornasous and unacceptable, because it questions, enamos, disgusts, an institution such as the People's Valedor; a statutory institution, created with duty, duty!, to ensure the fulfilment and scrupulous respect of the fundamental rights of the Greeks and the Greeks before, besides, the public administrations, and not to serve as the agency of placement of the sister and the niece of directors of the People's Party. [[Applause]] No statutory institutions were set up in this country to serve as placement agencies for any political organization. Whoever has the duty -- and I insist on this -- who has the duty to value the people of Greece acts like a jackal, who seems most of the past but which we see is still present, painfully present. Mrs. Otero has violated any democratic principle with her corruption, but also the obligations of a valet. And he has shown that he acts, that he has acted throughout all this time, as a militant of the People's Party and not as a defender of the Greek people. And far from having the height—almost I would dare to say that far from having the dignity—to admit what was demonstrated judicially and present its immediate resignation to safeguard the little shame that could remain for him, and above all to safeguard the institution he represented, which belongs to us and represents all, to everyone!, not to the People's Party, far away from that, Mrs Otero decided to initiate a flight forward with the conviviality—for she knew she had it—the conviviality and the protection of the People's Party, fouling the image of the People's Valdour but also questioning, or putting in question, this Parliament. Mrs Otero not only lied, and she even lied at parliamentary headquarters, but she wanted to block and torpedo parliamentary mechanisms for her removal from office — again with the unbreakable support of the People's Party. And how did you try to do Mrs. Otero? How did you try torpedo and block parliamentary mechanisms so that it would be removed after a Supreme Court of Justice judgement in Galicia? For the purest style of the People's Party: with a deferred resignation, which was more a mockery of the whole House, a conditioned resignation. A [criminal] trying to condition the Galician Parliament, what a scandal and what a blow! [[(Expression taken from the Journal of Sessions, by order of the President, on the basis of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure.)]] [[Applause]] And in front of this picture we still had to hear recurringly in the mouth of the People's Party that this lady acted with responsibility. Curious vision of the People's Party of Responsibility! Mrs. Otero's actions are vulnerable, clearly vulnerable, her duties and incapacitating her to follow for a minute more in front of the People's Valley. Since the BNG we have made it clear, we have said it from the very first moment, since we have had knowledge of the judgement of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, and with more reason we still repeat it now: its behaviour is absolutely incompatible with the functions that correspond to the People's Valedoria, and damage that was kept a minute longer ahead of that institution, it greatly damages the credibility of the people's own valet; a credibility that has been, over the time he occupied Valedoria, enormously questioned, and not only by the Nationalist Block of Wales but by collectives and social entities who saw as Mrs. Otero acted as a valet of the People's Party rather than by the Greeks and the Greeks. He wanted the right to privacy of homeless people in this very Chamber, he instrumentalized the Valdoria institution to oppose municipal governments, denied support for citizens and citizens who denounced the violation of linguistic rights or the people affected — patients — by hepatitis C who came to her asking for help. The judgement of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, which has already been signed by that ruling of the Supreme Court, is the fall that caused the cup to overflow. Ladies and gentlemen, by decency, for democratic hygiene and for the whole of the people who live and work in this country, in strict respect for the rights of the Greeks and the Greeks, we must put an end to this absolutely politically intractable agony. Today we are voting on two very clear things: if this Parliament is going to stand by the institutions, safeguard the statutory institutions of this country, transparency and, above all, democratic rights, the rights of all the people who live and work in this country, or if, on the other hand, the People's Party is going to continue to support and act with someone who is far from representing what must be a people's worth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG111.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Mrs. Rodil, I'm going to ask you to remove the criminal expression, because we're moving in an administrative action. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, I'm sorry, I understand not, and I've consulted with the legal services. I have just consulted with the legal services precisely that, and the word must be removed from the Journal of Sessions. I ask you to withdraw it; if not, I remove it with the corresponding call to order. Give a voice to Mrs. Rodil's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG111.u5	I keep saying what I just said, and we have to go to the dictionary to see what that word means. Anyway, you do what you consider appropriate. That doesn't change the reality of the facts being debated here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG111.u6	The expression is withdrawn and, consequently, you have a call to order, Mrs. Rodil. We continue the debate. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG111.u7	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to express my gratitude to all the citizens and to all the citizens of Greece who, yesterday, behaved like real free, decent citizens, and who also watched democracy vote on parties and others, all of whom we are represented here. I believe that the party of democracy we live it in its greatest extent. On yesterday, society said it was full of corruption, from Spain that manipulates public institutions for its own benefit, from Spain from appointments to fingers, from Spain that pre-eminently insults the division of powers, from Spain of enchufism, from the classical Spain of families "of all life" that intended to lead to Congress of Deputies to bullies, marques or countesas "as God commands". Galicia also said the same thing. And today is the day when Parliament — you too, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party — should be at the height of society, you should vote for the cessation of the valet, of Miracles Otero Parga, because you have in your curriculum a judgement of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia — this — which said "no" to all of this that I have just mentioned. [[Applause]] That's right. It's incredible that some of you still have something to sting, it's really amazing. Three magistrates of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia said "no" to suit the spokesperson sister of the Popular Parliamentary Group in this House and, as the spokesperson of the BNG, the niece of President Fraga Iribarne. [[Murmurs.]] This debate is a deja vu, we have already done so in July last year and you voted against what we are asking for. We'll see what they do today. But then the valet, which is sure to be listening to us on streaming, because it didn't have the dignity of coming today — not in July either — to this House, which is the camera that represents all the Greeks and all the Galicians, to listen to what we have to say, because this valet, we believe, must have stopped motu just because he didn't have the confidence of the three fifths of Parliament at that time, and he doesn't. [[Applause]] We, my parliamentary group, withdrew it at that time. He didn't. He decided to continue to set up the institution. And the opposition groups again had to ask for their cessation because they understood that it was not — it failed and failed — the duties of their office. The Supreme Court has spoken. Last July, the spokesperson for the People's Parliamentary Group said that they had to wait for the ruling to be firm. It is now. He confirmed the Supreme Court on 28 March — just one month ago — the judgement, this of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, without entering to assess the bottom of the plug, because neither category of plug had to be valued by the Supreme Court itself. Irregularities in the abstention to continue to intervene, flagrant violation of the procedure, deviation of power, arbitrariness; finally, everything they rejected yesterday's vote the Greeks and the Greeks in the polls [[Applause]] And here's another thing that's almost worse. And that's how much this plug cost. Because this doesn't come out of us for free, obviously. Some thousands of euros — some hypothetically, I don't know because we don't know it — were the report of this professor of labour law who said everything was perfect; 1,500 euros of the high court ruling of Galicia; I suppose about 3,000 euros for the appeal of marriage before the Supreme Court; and 2,000 euros for the costs of the Supreme Court itself by the judgement against the valator of the people. Who's going to pay these, like, 10,000 euros? Where are they going to come from? Of the pockets of all the Galicians, let's suppose, of course. Maybe it's the valet itself that faces these costs. And this is precisely the use of the money of all and of all as if it were their own and when I wanted it, that's what they rejected the Galicians and the Greeks yesterday in the polls. [[Applause]] When the sentence was confirmed, we asked the valet to resign. And she, in a letter of 12 April, said that she accepted it but did not share it — that she could not share it, she said expressly. But you know what? Anyway, yesterday's called democracy, and this is called power division. He likes or doesn't like the valet, this judgement of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia — that the spokesperson of the People's Parliamentary Group told us that it had to be firm, and it's firm enough — implies the notorious failure to fulfill the duties of the office of the valet, whether it likes the valet or not. That is precisely why this Parliament is obliged to give up, in order to maintain the dignity and the cleanliness of the institution. And if you don't vote for the cessation, the institution will remain on fire, and the only ones responsible for it will be you, no one else. With all due respect, that the valet of the people interprets Valador's regulations as it is, to us it seems like a nightmare, literally. That "renunciation, but little" only makes it conditional on parliamentary groups, which we are the only representatives of the people of Galicia, because we are here because they voted for us, no one has appointed us with a finger. Valador's regulations do not allow that to be "ready to..." if I don't know that... just as in democracy the plug of friends and friends is not allowed, exactly the same. That lady can't be committed to a formal resignation, because she's not in the Valedor Law, there's no such commitment. There's a resignation, but not a resignation when I think I have to give up. That is why Parliament's own lawyers in Galicia said that their writing could not be regarded as a renunciation. And neither the valet nor the People's Party nor the President of the Union are responsible for interpreting the laws or interpreting the rules. They're not. They're the courts. And that's called democracy and the rule of law. And that's what the citizens of Galicia voted yesterday. [[Applause]] We understand that you live in a virtual reality, absolutely, the virtual reality that went out on Galician TV when talking about the scandal of the valet, which seemed little more than a struggle between President Feijóo and — and we don't know why — President Pedro Sánchez. We didn't understand the combination very well. But, of course, President Feijóo, after one of the electoral debates, said, "I saw an uncomfortable and projectless Sanchez in front of a marriage prepared for the presidency." Obviously, you live in an absolutely virtual reality. Miracles Otero Parga is already amortized, for us it is no longer legitimized to be the valuator of the people, since July last year. You proposed it, listen to what they were told yesterday in the polls and cassette today. The opposition groups are going to vote on their cessation. Césena, don't abstain, don't vote against. Césena, listen to what they were told yesterday because they were told for something. Open in Parliament a new stage for the People's Valley. Of course, the Socialist Parliamentary Group won't stay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG111.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG111.u9	Good afternoon, gentlemen. The question that might be asked today in connection with this new debate is whether something is worth the word of the President of Galicia. On July 10, 2018 there was a debate in this House in which the People's Party stood against ending the people's valet as a result of the notorious failure to fulfil their duties. And the next day, at the government control session, from En Marea we asked Núñez Feijóo what he would do with this resolution and with this sentence when this sentence was firm. And in the President's reply, in the July 11 issue, page 31, he says, "Tell me if we're going to respect the sentence. Yes, Mr. Villares, we are Democrats." "Mr. Villares asks that, if the Supreme Court considers this judgment to be firm, it will make the group." And he answers the president of the Galician Council: "Take note of the Supreme Court's judgement." If then the answer was "no", now that the judgment is firm, the logic would be that the answer was "yes." We have a firm sentence in a conviction for the abuse of power of the person responsible for guarding against the abuse of power by the Administration, which, far from giving up, takes a step forward and conditions any kind of decision that this Parliament can make saying that it will not be left until a replacement is agreed. That is to say, who is condemned by a clear case of institutional corruption is the one which aims to make this Parliament at pace, something which we consider clearly unacceptable. Well, we are again in this debate, a debate which is the second opportunity of the People's Party to decide whether to support those who use the public for particular benefit, those who make institutional corruption a form of government, or whether to correct themselves. Today the People's Party has to retreat again and decide whether it is on the side of plugs, of clienteleism, of those who act arbitrarily using their power unduly, whether it is ultimately on the side of the corrupt, or whether, on the other hand, it recognises that it has been wrong — yes, this time with a firm judgment — to place confidence in a person who has deluded this House and throughout Galician citizenship. We need to position ourselves in this Parliament on whether you withdraw your confidence as a result of your personal intervention in a matter of customerization in a position of the administration, violating fundamental rights of the other competitors and obstructing access to information on the proceedings to the court itself; precisely the holder of the body responsible for safeguarding fundamental rights in the face of abuses by public administrations, in charge of ensuring transparency in relation to the concealment of action or information to be issued by public administrations. It's about deciding whether we're willing and willing to continue to tolerate that there are people who use public institutions for particular benefit to benefit their friends, their old bosses, and to return favors to the party that put them in charge. The People's Party has to portray: either it's on the side of the corrupt or it's on the side of fundamental rights. We understand it can't be, it must have been July 10th. But in this case there is an institution condemned by a court sentence because its holder has violated fundamental rights of equality, merit and capacity, and because he has despised citizens' rights. And these are expressions that use their own judgment. All to plug in a friend, all to plug in Manuel Fraga's niece, all, gentlemen, to plug in the voicer sister of the People's Party in this House! Either he's with the corrupt or he's with the democracy, he's not worth riding here. We think — and so the law provides — that the valator of the people should cease because of the notorious failure to fulfil the duties of their office. And what are your duties? He says article 1 of his own law that they are the defense of fundamental rights and public freedoms recognized to citizens and then advise, in matters of law and access to information, citizenship. It is the judgment itself — now confirmed by the Supreme Court — that annuls the appointment of Maria Puy Fraga to a job in the Valedoria for trampling those rights, and also for hindering public information for stakeholders in the proceedings. He said that it was revealing — those working on the record — that arbitrary decision-making and power-deviation were arbitrary, and that the defence of the rest of the contestants was evident and explained that the infringement of the principles of equality, merit and capacity constituted a violation of fundamental rights. "It is a decision which, in addition," said the judgment, "is done by the desire to assist one of the candidates, and with contempt" — ladies and gentlemen, it is the expression that uses the sentence — "the assessment of the merits and abilities of the other candidates, and with favor" — literally the sentence — "of the candidate finally elected." We think it's a shame, ladies and gentlemen, that, in the institution condemned by a valet act in favor of a candidate friend of yours, who has trampled on fundamental rights, this can follow a single day in front of the institution. It was not the only reason why she was sentenced in this sentence. He also said, "that it is not acceptable for the abstention resolution not to be recorded and initially sought to hide the real reason that resulted in the abstention, showing the valet to be reluctant to provide information" — all this said in the judgment — "though his status as a defender of fundamental rights and president, that his position as a defender has, of the Transparency Commission required him to be extremely scrupulously scrupulously in the said undertaking". We think it is an indignity, ladies and gentlemen, that a court has to reproach Mrs. Otero Parga — not the institution, but herself, a physical person — to be precisely her who obstructs and hides information from a court, who has the function of ensuring the transparency of administrations and who provides information to citizens. The one responsible for transparency, hiding his own shame, a democratic blow! We have to recognize him, yes. They took the valet by plugging in the niece of the founder of the People's Party in Galicia, the sister of the high office of the party who put her in the position she now employs, with abuse of power, to return that favor. There are reasons, ladies and gentlemen, for agreeing on the closure of the valet. If with these evidence based on facts proven in a judgement — now firm — the People's Party does not want to stop the valet, it will have to explain why. It must be the People's Party, with Nuñez Feijóo and Puy Fraga in front, which explains what the interests of following it back and, apart from opposing the very word given in this House a year ago. We should ask ourselves, in that case, who is benefiting from a valet who is trampling on the fundamental rights of citizens and who is still being held in his post despite that. Who owes the valet so much to risk her doing what she did? Was it for a simple friendship, was it for being a niece of the founder of the People's Party, or was that the price that was to be paid for being plugged in by the People's Party? The question you have to ask yourself, ladies and gentlemen, is who protects the valet by lying to a court of law. This is a debate on whether we are faced with a corrupt political system, with the support of the parliamentary majority, where a lady abuses her position of power in an institution to thank her for her appointment to the party that placed her. What are you doing, ladies and gentlemen, the valet with this cascade declared in court? Returning favors, we understand our friends and the party. And we ask ourselves, again, who does the valet benefit? The boss's daughter at the university, who is niece of Fraga and also sister of the current spokesperson of the People's Party in this House. Who benefits from maintaining this situation? Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a totally corrupt political entity, used to pay client and plug-in favors, unworthy of a democratic administration. We think that in this situation the People's Party supports the valet to protect its clientele network, to protect the survival of an institution corrupted by its holder for the particular benefit of the party, and also to protect its current parliamentary spokesperson. The People's Party, ladies and gentlemen, has to portray itself either with corruption and plug-in or with fundamental rights and democracy. Maintaining the position of the niece of Fraga and the sister of the popular spokesman in this House, trampling on the fundamental rights of the people — as the sentence states — and obstructing the work of the courts, is something that the People's Party began to pay dearly yesterday and that it will once again pay dearly if not rectified. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we don't think Galicia deserves to go through this puddle and live in this shame for another second. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG111.u10	Thank you, Mr. Villares. For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG111.u11	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Vilan, the Galician People's Party won all elections for forty years except yesterday's elections, the Socialist Party lost all elections less yesterday's. I'll read you a famous quote that says, "When you lose, say nothing; and when you win, say less. Be humble in your victories and elegant in your defeats, who speak to others." [[Applause]] I understand you're plethoracic. I'm more surprised that Mr. Villares comes to suck at the results he got yesterday, but there he is! [[Murmurs.]] Well, I think it is important to explain why we are here today and why we have reached this plenary and what we are debating. [[Interruption.]] We listen with great respect. That democratic majority, that he hears and lets others speak, would also thank, man, that he hears, that he lets him speak, that we are in democracy. [[Murmurs.]] We're debating a judgment in the context of the coverage of a post of official for free designation. So we're not talking about a contract. If we're talking about a contract, we could talk about the recruitment of Carmela Silva's sister-in-law, of course!, of that conviction that costs 120,000 euros public from Vigo Town Hall that someone will have to return, Mrs Vilán. Or what's going on! The money from the Vigo Town Hall is not as public as the 2,000 euros — as you said — from the People's Valedora? The 120,000 Vigo Town Hall don't seem enough to you. [[Strong murmurers.]] And if we talk about dignity, tell that lady, the President of the Parliament, that dignity is shown here to come. For three consecutive times he did not come and give explanations of his budgets of the Deputy of Pontevedra. Therefore, lessons of transparency and dignity of the Socialist Party of Galicia, none, Mrs Vilán, none! Secondly, it is important to point out that the judgment is within the framework of an administrative procedure. Because, of course, in these past days we have come to hear — even some spokesperson — that was doomed by prevarication, and they were talking about a criminal matter. Today he didn't dare go up here to this rostrum and say the same thing he said in the press rounds and in front of the media. I suppose his face would fall in shame. But that's very good, because maybe we're taking some votes and we're still here today with the hammer of condemnation, prevarication, crime and so on. Go on, go on. Well, there's a ruling from the Supreme Court of Justice in Galicia that calls for a return to the time of selection between all candidates after they've barred. What is no longer surprising — since the judgment considers that the bases were made ad hoc for the candidate — is that it does not nullify those bases. Surprising, gentlemen! That's the judicial truth, the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia says the bases are made ad hoc for a candidate and then it doesn't nullify those bases, surprising! Mr. Villares, you, who is a judge, I suppose you will also be very surprised by that sentence. Well, but the valet immediately complied with the sentence, immediately. He returned to the proceedings where he was ordered by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia to return. Thirdly, the Supreme Court does not issue any other judgment — which we also heard a few days ago that there is a Supreme Court ruling that confirms... just as you did, but I'm sure you heard some spokesman saying these matters. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And a lot of media published that there was a Supreme Court ruling confirming that judgment. Falso! What the Supreme Court has done is to consider that there is no domestic interest. You yourself, Mr. Villares, in this gallery, when we talked about this issue in July, said you estimated 8% of the matters that arrived at the wedding. Is that so? Well, 8% is true that it's a very low percentage, and in this case the Supreme Court is in that 92% that doesn't consider it to be of domestic interest. In no case do you confirm the sentence or any criminal sentence or any conviction for anything, ladies and gentlemen. The Supreme Court simply rejects that appeal. We said on his day that we would wait until the sentence was firm, Mr. Villares. And, before the People's Parliamentary Group was delivered, the valet took a decision and assumed its responsibility, and — as he explained in his appearance in this House — among other reasons, because the case could be better defended in the trial and it was not done. She took that responsibility for a sentence she doesn't share but she acts. And it makes it available to parliamentary groups. So it stays in function until a new valet is consensual. If she gave up, the institution would be out of the question. Don't you think, ladies, that for the most comfortable valet, it was going back to college? So, ladies, let's negotiate. If you want the valet to stay out of office tomorrow, we can negotiate a name and tomorrow we're in that situation you want. It's not that complicated. You say that's not the situation. Sure, if the valet stops, what happens? Well, with the previous law, a vice-validator would automatically take over the valet position. With the current law we have an attached valet appointed by the Socialist Party that would have to pass through the Committee on Petitions. [[Strong murmurers.]] See, on January 25, 2016, the Valator Milagros Otero renounces participating in the process of selecting the square in question, of free designation... [[Strong murmurers.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, of course, you interrupt because you don't want to hear what I'm going to tell you, but you'll hear it, Mrs. Vilan. Because, look, on March 4, 2016, Mr. Pablo David Cameselle Martínez, a valet attached to the Socialist Party's proposal, so the record that names this lady that you say he put the People's Party. No, ladies! [[Strong murmurers.]] Don't! Who took the procedure and file of that appointment was the deputy valet appointed by the Socialist Party's proposal. So, Mrs. Vilan, don't come to teach us any lessons. What I say, ladies and gentlemen, is that, if you want this procedure to continue this way, we would have to go to the Committee on Petitions and agree. Because what we're not going to do is vote on a person's termination and what signed the record is left there. No, ladies and gentlemen, the file affects the whole institution, and we believe that what needs to be done is a renewal of the whole institution. And so if we need a consensus to continue the attached valet, our proposal is that we extend this consensus to the whole institution and agree to appoint a new valet or a new valet. Mrs. Rodil, see, on April 14, 2008, she presented her resignation as a member of the Galician Radio and Television Board of Directors, Ms. Cecilia Pérez Orge, on a proposal from the BNG. And he said, "This resignation will take effect when my replacement is elected by the Parliament of Galicia." So, look, the fatherhood of the deferred resignation is the Galego Nationalist Block in 2008. So don't come here and get so good and talk about yawning when you're the first ones who've adopted your resignation in a different way. [[Applause]] So it didn't seem bad to them, and today you come here to put the wings of old boys and the aureola of saints. No, Mrs. Rodil, no, not with her. Not with her, Mrs. Rodil! And, look, the groups of En Marea and BNG — this was the crane of the cake — and you yourself, Mr. Villares, have come to propose that the hearing process be made obvious. You, who is a surplus judge, surprisingly said that if the hearing process was met, because, in total, there was nothing new from the TSXG's judgment to the Supreme Court's judgement, there was no violation of any right because there is a Constitutional Court's judgment — that neither by analogy nor by any reason can one apply to this matter, but you find a Constitutional Court's judgment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG111.u12	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG111.u13	...that comes to you for now—and says that the hearing process is obvious. So you're the guarantors and then they're talking about crime! Look, in fact, the dictionary says that criminal is the one who violates or violates the law. And you were trying to solve a situation of non-compliance with the law by violating the law. Because I didn't listen...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG111.u14	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG111.u15	...not the Socialist Party nor the Nationalist Block Galego tell Mr. Villares that you didn't agree that if you made clear the hearing process, a guaranteed procedure, and that would violate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG111.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG111.u17	...a fundamental right of defence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG111.u18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG111.u19	It's over, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG111.u20	Finish it, please, now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG111.u21	If they don't want the valet to stay in office, they have it easy, they negotiate, we negotiate. We've been willing since day one. If you want us to have the institution with someone else...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG111.u22	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG111.u23	...we're in a position to negotiate. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG111.u24	Thank you. We shall vote on the proposal. Close the doors, please. Voting of the proposal for a cessation of the valator of the people
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG111.u25	We voted on the proposal for a cessation of the people's valet. The vote shall be kept secret by means of papers and alphabetical order, as set out in Article 91 of the Galician Parliament's Rules of Procedure. For these purposes, they've made some paperwork that they're already dealing with. Under the wording of the Valator's cessation proposal there are three boxes: yes, no or abstention. Yes, in favour of the proposal for the closure of the Valator; no, against the proposal for the cessation of the Valator; and, abstention, for those who are neither in favour nor against the proposal for termination. Members will vote by marking one of the boxes. And no vote shall be considered when there is any different squeezing or notation. It's a blank vote when no marked box is present. I remind the honourable Members that, for the closure of the people's valet, according to Article 5.2 of Law 6/1984 of 5 June, if the vote of the 3/5 members of the House is required, 45 Members. Papers are already being dealt. And we start the call vote, which will be done by the secretary of the Bureau of Parliament, Mrs Raquel Arias. I also pray to the vice-president and the vice-secretary to sit next to the ballot box. Let's get started. Whenever you want, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG111.u26	Thank you. Have all Members and Members voted? [[Assentment.]] Let's go to the count.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-29-DSPG111.u27	The results of the vote are as follows: votes cast 73, valid 73; no votes cast; no votes cast in favour of the proposal, 34; votes against the proposal, 1; abstentions, 38. The plenary therefore rejects the proposal for a cessation of the people's valet. No more, the session is over, but we're not leaving, we're not leaving because we're still in the next full. Open the doors.
