ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG120.u1	Good morning. Let's start at the session. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. She has justified this plenary session by Mrs Paula Vázquez Verao. It comes first that we kept a minute of silence in memory of Mr. Raúl Fernández Fernández, who, as you well know, was our companion and died recently.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG120.u2	Now we're in the development of the agenda. Provision of promise or oath to abide and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of a new Member's autonomy in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG120.u3	As a preliminary point, we proceed to the promise or oath to abide by and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of Galician autonomy of the new Member, Mrs. Jackeline Elizabeth Fernández Macías. In compliance with Article 7.3 of the Regulation, it is appropriate to request the promise or oath to comply with and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and the Statute of Self-Government to the new Member. According to the procedure, the formula is to answer "yes, I promise", or "yes, I swear" to the question of this presidency. I'm asking you to answer the question I'm going to ask you. Let's get up, please. Mrs. Jackeline Elizabeth Fernández Macías, do you promise or swear to abide by the Constitution and the Statute of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG120.u4	Yes, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG120.u5	Thank you. Once I have taken an oath in this case, I shall take the full condition of the honourable Member. Welcome to Parliament. [[Applause]] Designation of Senators or Senators representatives of the Autonomous Community of Galicia in accordance with Article 165.1 of the Galician Parliament Regulation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG120.u6	Now, as a single point in this plenary session, it is the appointment of senators or senators from representatives of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. The procedure for the appointment of senators or senators representing the Autonomous Community of Galicia, under the agreement of the Bureau and the Speakers' Board of 18 June 2019, shall be the number of senators or senators to be appointed by three, in accordance with Article 10.1 of the Statute for the Autonomy of Galicia. Its distribution, made in proportion to the representation of the various political forces in the House, determines that the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia corresponds to the proposal of two candidates and the En Marea Parliamentary Group corresponds to one. After the deadline for submitting proposals, the Bureau, at its meeting on 21 July 2019, agreed to admit the procedure of the proposals of the parliamentary groups and to appoint a candidate and candidates for Senators or Senators. The election shall be made by ballot in accordance with Article 91 of the Galician Regulation. The names of the candidate and of the candidates proposed to mark the candidate's or the candidates who lend their support with an asp. If you don't mark a box, you consider a blank vote, and if you enter a red tape amendment or any other addition, you will declare a null vote. It is therefore done in the distribution of the papers. [[Pause.]] All the papers are distributed, so we will begin the vote — close the doors, please — which will be made by call from the bureau secretary, Mrs Raquel Arias Rodríguez. I ask the vice president first and the vice secretary to sit where the ballot box is collected. Madam Secretary, you may proceed with the call of your lordships.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG120.u7	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG120.u8	Have all Members and Members exercised the right to vote? Thank you. [[Assentment.]] Let's go to the count.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG120.u9	The result of the scrutiny is as follows: Votes in favour of Mr José Manuel Sande García, from G.P. of En Marea, 62; votes in favour of D. Jesús Vázquez Abad, of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, 62; votes in favour of Da Elena Muñoz Fonteriz, G.P. Galician people, 62; blank votes, 8. Having reached the support of the House, he is appointed and appointed Senator and Senators representatives of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the 13th Senate Legislative Decree: Don Elena Muñoz Fonteriz, Don José Manuel Sande García and Don Jesús Vázquez Abad. So, let's give them some congratulations, of course, and finish the regular session here. I warn you that we will hold the session and continue with the development of the next plenary session.
