ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u1	Good morning. We resumed the meeting, in this case with questions for the President's reply. We begin with the accumulated debate of questions, in this case documents 56658 and 56741, which correspond to the questions of the Joint Parliamentary Group of the Left and of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales. Cumulative debate He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Antón Sánchez García of the G.P. Group of the Left, on the industrial policy of the German Government Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the response that the Government of Galicia is giving to the industrial crisis in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u2	Mr Anton Sánchez begins by asking the question by the Joint Parliamentary Group on the Left.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u3	Good morning. Good morning, Mr. President. Today a cover of the Vigo Lighthouse says : First bill of the Barreras crisis, 800 employees of the street assistants. [[Mr. Sánchez García shows the House a leaflet.]] Mr. Feijóo, in his black decade he destroyed 22,000 industrial jobs. One out of three industrial jobs that have been destroyed in the state these ten years take the Feijóo brand. At present, there are multiple cases of threats and job destruction in the Welsh industry, and you don't provide solutions, because you're part of the problem. R, Isowat, Poligal, Ferroatlantica, Navantia auxiliaries, Barriers, Barriers auxiliaries, Meirama or The Bridges. There is a black map of labour conflicts. Your answer to them is to divert attention, spill the bulk and blame everyone so as not to assume his responsibility as President of Galicia. Their government is useless to give them a solution, they all suffer their own rule. What can you tell the workers of R, a company cemented with Greek public money and sold to Euskaltel by Abanca for cash? What can you tell the Isowat workers, where the ERTE ends and if no one fixes it they'll go to the street? What can you tell them when the Board of Castile and León reached an agreement with the investor and Abanca to their Medina del Campo plant, and Junta was unable to do the same with the Coruña plant? What about Barriers, Mr. Feijóo? weren't they Pemex and his partner García Costas the strategic solution for the Welsh naval? Do you remember the headlines, the photos, the interruptions of Galician TV programming to make election announcements? It was, at least, very unwise to announce the bomb and dish solutions that never arrived. Now, the picture that remains is of his relationship with Mexican corruption and his bet on a bad manager like Garcia Costas. How much will it cost the Greeks and the Greeks the defeats and silence of their partner, trusted man and prominent militant of the Popular Party, García Costas? In 2012, he said: The success of Barreras is that of Galicia, the Union and the President. And the failure, Mr. Feijóo?, whose failure is it? That one has no father or mother, right? On the other hand, your management of thermal power stations is negligible, that of you and the Spanish Government. In a context of decarbonisation, with very specific agreements at the global and European level, which are not two days ago, they were obliged to have a transition plan with a calendar of resources so that this transition would be made without harming the workers, who are the ones who will always pay the duck at the end. It won't be Endessate prejudiced by its neglect, it's out of trouble after thirty years of doing a huge business at the expense of our resources, environmental impacts and the work of the Greeks and the Greeks. By the way, privatized the price of a friend by the People's Party, and then put theirs on their board of directors. The disadvantaged and those who see their lives threatened are the workers and workers of the Bridges and Ferrolterra, who once again pay for their incompetence. Their trumpist negationism...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u4	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u5	...—it's over—it's still a slate to bring solutions; it's not worth the fight against climate change, it's not worth giving workers solutions, and less for those truck drivers who haven't had income for five months after making the investments that demanded them Endesa, to leave them behind at the stake. You don't have a solution for them either.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u6	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u7	I'm done. The lorries, the workers, the people of the Bridges, Isowat, R, Polygal, Ferroatlantic want a president who exercises and not a militant of the People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u8	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Ms. Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u9	Well, thank you very much. Good morning. Last Sunday, we met a survey that left us several important assessments: the first is that if the people's party were to hold elections today, the majority would be lost; the second is that as the People's Party rises, the Galician Nationalist Block is the force that increases their electoral support most, and the third is that the people's citizenship suspends the Government of the People's Party. And I don't know if you know which area has one of the worst grades. For it is precisely Economy and Employment. And it's no wonder his incompetence makes us have a serious industrial crisis today, with more than 6,000 jobs at risk, which affects entire areas from Vigo to Coruña, Ferrolterra, The Bridges, the Death Coast or the Navy. Your legacy, Mr. Feijóo, is an industrial desertification, and in view of that, all you do is find excuses and throw balloons out. And Galicia needs solutions. We need solutions for Alcoa, Isowat, R or Vulcan. Barriers solutions, for Poligal, for Endesa-At Bridges or Ferroatlantics. In Ferroatlantica, you allowed Villar Mir to give a ball. At least you need an industrial plan to guarantee the future of employment in that area. In Barreras he was Pemex's great achievement, and the result is already seen: his Mexican partners charged with corruption, a yard in crisis, and today even eight hundred people on the street. I see you don't care what the future of the people of this country is. And Barriers is viable and the board has to get involved; let's take public control of that yard and look for solutions for the future. At Alcoa we have four hundred jobs in the Coruña and two thousand in the Navy. Where are the solutions? You had a meeting with the minister yesterday, and they had a face -- because it must be a face -- to show up saying that the problem was the price of energy. Where were PP and PSOE when from BNG we defended a Welsh electric fare? Where were they when we defended the right to benefit from our wealth in this country? [[Applause]] Yeah, I wanted to tell you where they were: exactly where they are today, looking at Madrid instead of looking at Galicia. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's why we suggest again that there has to be a stable and competitive industrial tariff and that we have the right to a Welsh electric tariff, that is, a reduction in the fees we pay because we have the right to benefit from the electricity wealth in this country. And we continue with the situation of Endesa-At the Bridges. You were 15 days ago making a fantastic self-portrait. He said if that station were in Euskadi, he wouldn't shut down. Indeed, because there's a government with political weight there, and you're not even able to get an interview with Endesa's address. [[Applause]] That's why we said that in the face of the failure that you haven't done right now, you have to build a country position...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u11	...and to do so — finished, Mr. President — we need a Welsh table for a fair energy transition, commitments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u12	Shhh, shhh, shhh...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u13	...that the power plant does not close until there is a real reindustrialization of the region with funds that have to come from Europe, the state, the Union and the very benefits it has had from Endesa over these years that you can't believe you can leave this country of rosettes. Mr. Feijóo, Galliza doesn't need excuses, what he needs are solutions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Allow me, Mr. Sánchez, to read you an appointment. "We want the closure of highly polluting infrastructures and some of them absolutely illegal like Reganosa's gas plant inside the Ferrol River and even the exit of Ence." Proposal from the spokesperson of your group a few years ago in the Galician Parliament. Those who ask to close the Greek industries are trying to hold the Government of Galicia responsible for closing the Greek industries as a result of the Central Government's incapacity? Is that your proposal? Are you preparing your coalition, Mr. Sánchez? I don't know who. BNG has another proposal: unconditional support for the Socialist Workers' Party. With unconditional support for the Socialist Workers' Party Spanish... [[Mr. Lake Peñas pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u16	Mr. Lake, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u17	...resolves the problems created by the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party itself. The proposal of the groups that call upon the government is duly curious. One wants to shut down all industries and the other finds that it also deals with the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party which is willing not to help the industries. I don't ask them to improve, to leave them as they were, to leave them as they were. Welcome therefore to this concern of the Government of Galicia that has been warning for months, quarters and semesters of the frivolity of the industrial policy of the Government of Spain and of the disarray of the energy policy of the Government of Spain. A few days ago we knew the data from the raw internal product. We observed an annual growth of 2% of the Greek economy, just like the Spanish economy, and twenty-three consecutive quarters with positive rates. We went and continued to insist on the worrying slowdown of the Spanish economy and the Greek economy. In the fourth trimester of the year 2018, the Greek economy grew to 2.6, half a point more than the Spanish average. In the first quarter of 2019 it grew to 2.3, a tenth more than the Spanish economy. Now we're tied to 2 percent growth. All sectors of the Greek economy are positive, except industry. And when we look at exactly what happens in industry, the problems of industry in Galicia are two: energy production and metallurgical production, that is, The Bridges, Meirama and Alcoa. The industrial production index of Galicia is higher than that of the State; at an annual rate, the industrial production index of Galicia, without counting the energy, is in 3.1 and Spain is in negative. Ladies and gentlemen, are you going to continue working for the Central Government? Will you continue to blame the Greeks for the problems that are not of the Greeks, but for the lack of energy policy and the erratic industrial policy of the Government of Spain? Will you continue in the political coalition against the interests of Galicia? [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I insist: will you continue in the political coalition against the interests of the country? You're talking about the naval. They don't remember the socialist fee anymore. When we got to Junta we couldn't make a single boat in Galicia, a single boat in Spain. Commissioner Almunia, declared ungrateful in the Vigo Council, — let's see the socialist contribution! — it turns out that he closed the shipyards in the country. We are looking for solutions with the Central Government, with UXT, with Workers' Commissions, with lehendakari, with the President of the Principality of Asturias; we have solved the tax leave; we have sought orders, we have obtained orders, we have managed to return solvency to the yards, and now that there is a serious problem in a yard, is this government's fault, which saved that yard? Did it turn out the government's fault that really made it easier for Barreras to have a job, have partners and have more than a thousand people a month? Does this turn out to be the problem of this government? Ladies and gentlemen, a little respect! In the automobile, crisis in the automotive sector. Today the automotive sector is billing 27 percent more than when we arrived, exporting 28 percent more than when we arrived, creating jobs in the last year: two thousand three hundred net jobs in the automotive sector. And it turns out you're talking about the problems of industrial policy in Galicia? The Galician Union has its industrial and export production indices better than those of Spain. What happened? Mr. Sánchez has arrived. And it happened that when we had to continue with this momentum of industrial policy, when we had to make sure of the uncertainty of economic downturn, when we had to put in place active policies and possible energy policies, it turns out that this is happening to us from the transition, which is no transition, is a dismantling. They don't want a transition, they want their political project, which doesn't go through the electro-intensive industries, nor does it go through the naval sector, nor does it go through the industries that consume electricity intensely. And not only increases and fires the price of light from 35 euros/megavatio to 50 euros/megavatio during its eighteen months, but they also close. And they close the thermal power stations, those power stations that are running 200 million euros of investments to suit the European Union's gas emissions, The Bridges-Endesa. And what is the opposition proposal? The opposition's proposal is to shut up and blame the Galician Union. Is that the country proposal that you have? Mrs Pontón, is this the country's proposal for Galician nationalism? Galician nationalism should be with the Government of Galicia defending Galicia. That's the proposal you should have, Your Honor. [[Applause]] And it turns out your proposal is to blame the Galician Union. When Mr. Rajoy ruled, the price of light was a problem of Mr. Rajoy, and now when Mr. Sánchez rules, the price of light is a problem of Mr. Feijóo. What are these jokes, Mrs. Pontón?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u18	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u19	What are these jokes? When Mr. Rajoy ruled, I gave my face to Alcoa against the Government of Madrid, and when the government ruled Mr. Sánchez, I will continue to face Alcoa against the Government of Madrid. That's my commitment and my proposal. [[Applause]] Look, Mrs. Pontón: you're delighted with the survey, continue; you become the minority group of the camera again. Great!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u20	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u21	You say the government has a bad rating. Yeah, they're about ten to five; you haven't reached three and a half yet. But it's all right, Mrs. Pontón, follow you. [[Murmurs.]] You follow, decide: Galicia is the Socialist Party. If this is the BNG problem in history! Every time they decide for the Socialist Party, they go down...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u22	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u23	...and every time they decide for Galicia, they come up. Look, as we have no doubt, we've decided to go through Galicia, whatever happens and what happens. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u24	Thank you, President. Replica, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u25	Mr. Feijóo, it was too much to ask him to speak honestly of the drama that many Greeks and Greeks are living. Your answer is more than just a demonstration of the cynicism you're operating with. You debase the Greek institutions by not exercising the sovereignty that grants us our Statute. Turns the Galician Union into something useless for all those people from Isowat, Polygal, Vulcan, Barriers, Ferroatlantic, Meirama, Bridges and many more. You blame everyone else, the central government, the European Union, who is needed, so as not to take responsibility. But I ask you, is it also the fault of the central government that Isowat has a solution with the Board of Castile and Lion, and that there is no solution with the Board of Galicia?, is it also the fault of the central government that R was sold at a balance price, to cash out, by his friend Escotet, and that we are left without decision after we have invested millions of euros in infrastructure and in that company, Mr Feijóo? What happened in Barreras is also the fault of the central government, where you bet on your husband, your partner, the leading militant of the Popular Party, García Costas? If you hung up the medals and took the photos with him to make election announcements, now take your fiasco, which leaves on the street eight hundred people, Mr. Feijóo, and doesn't drain the bulk. The workers and the workers want a president who exercises and not who throws balloons out or who works for his party, the non-president. The non-president liquidated the Greek financial system, let the solar silicon go from Sabón to Puertollano. The non-president failed to get to Isowat in Galicia what he did to the Board of Castile and León; he let R be sold by Abanca to the Basque; he bet on García Costas, today a fugitive of corruption justice, for his strategic alliance to the naval. And he didn't make a transition plan for Endesa or Meirama, even when Meirama announced he wouldn't make the investments to adapt to the European directive. You lie, you lie constantly. It's not a central government decision that leads to Endesa's closure. Or does the Central Government influence the prices of CO2 or coal? The central government has as much responsibility as you do for not preparing us in this context. Where were you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u26	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u27	...in 2017 when the system of emission rights payments was reformed, which had already been vaccinated that the CO2 emission prices would rise. The answer is not whether there will be a transition or not, Mr. Feijóo. The answer is, if that transition to the public's ball, so people don't get hurt, or the Endesa, Iberdrola or Naturgy pilot, and people get hurt after they do...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u28	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u29	...millions of the privileges your party has granted you in the electric market. And you're always talking about what the oligopolis companies have to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u30	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u31	Mr. Feijóo, go to Vigo and tell the workers and workers who are on the street today that you have saved Barriers. We need to have a low sensitivity and, of course, try to divert attention. [[Applause]] Are you ready or not for a public intervention to save Barriers? That's what you have to answer and stop throwing balloons out. Because look: in Galicia we have a serious industrial crisis, we have the IPI in freefall, the third territory of the entire Spanish state where the lowest. And we have other problems. Because, of course, we saw yesterday: Galicia widens its competitiveness gap with the European Union for labour weakness and innovation. We lost sixteen seats and fell to one hundred ninety-seven. I don't know if you're responsible for something like this or not. But if what happens in Galicia has nothing to do with the attitude and what the Government does, this is the biggest amendment to the whole about its ineptitude and inability, because it's telling us they don't paint anything, that nothing has to do with what the Government does with the march of this country. [[Applause]] And I'll tell you what your country proposal is. Your country proposal is to have 6,000 jobs at the picket. Your country proposal is to leave without seeking any future solution for this country. And, of course, Galicia, what you don't need is a president who every day looks more like a florist, who may be very well placed at a table, but which is not useful to solve the problems of this country. The Spanish electric system: whose law regulates the Spanish electric system?, who charged the industrial tariff and put us in that Russian roulette of interruptability auctions? It was the People's Party, and you applauded and shut your mouth. Of course, the Socialist Party has responsibilities, because it promised that there would be a statute before April, and there is no statute. [[Applause]] But what you have to explain to us, what you have to explain to the Greeks and the Greeks, is if you don't fall in shame knowing the problem we had, and that your big contribution was to veto all of the proposals of the Nationalist Block of Wales, to undermine the price of energy in this country. Because we're talking about intervening in the beaches, and the beaches are a political decision. Why can you reduce the rates in Euskadi and you can't reduce the rates...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u32	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u33	...in Galicia? Why aren't we going to be entitled to benefit from the electricity this country has? What can't be, when we're exporting electricity, when industries are feeding, let's see how there are no alternatives. And in the end, what we have is the usual one: a People's Party and a Socialist Party that looks at Madrid, and which are more pending than the rotational doors of which is the future of the people of this country. Because I don't think it's a coincidence we have a power station today in Cerceda closing, right, by Naturgy. And there, who's been benefiting Naturgy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u34	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u35	...on your board of directors? Mr. Aznar. Let's have a problem in Endesa, and that's where the rotating doors are, too, where Mr. González appears. The problem is the usual, you don't think in this country...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u36	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u37	...and that only and exclusively they're playing a pimpampum that doesn't bring solutions. And Galicia needs no more excuses.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón, your time is up. The closing round of these two questions, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u39	Very clarifier this control session for the workers! Let me quote Mr. Sánchez: "The best news of the last decades for the environment is the closure of Meirama," Mr. Sánchez said. And now you come to tell me that Meirama's problem is a problem of Mr. Feijóo? [[Mr. President of the Galician Union shows a leaflet from his chair.]] You want to congratulate me, don't you? Would you like to congratulate me? In the recent debate on the state of Autonomy we made a motion for a resolution: to address the central government for measures to guarantee employment in the industrial and energy field, at the bridges, Meirama, Alcoa, Partner, Megasa, Ferroatlántica. BNG has abstained. Nationalists of the future of the Galician industry have been prevented. And Left in Common voted against the future of Galician industries, against the proposal of the debate of the state of autonomy. [[An honourable Member pronounces: No.]] Why don't Mrs. Ponton and you go to the Bridges and the Meirama and look the workers in the face?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u40	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u41	There are two ways to go to one center: one, look at the workers' faces, and another, lie to the workers. Those are the two formulas for going to the thermal power stations, Your Honor. [[Applause]] Too bad, Your Honor, since they sit in the seats they forget the real problems of the workers. This is Mrs. Pontón's electric fare. But, Mrs. Pontón, I've been president of the Galician Union for eleven years, and it's never been the electric fare like in the last eighteen months. Yesterday, very clearly, the President of Alcoa-Spain said: with the electricity tariff we had up to 2018, an average of 35 euros/megavatito, Alcoa will follow, continue and expand. With the electric fare, which we've had for 18 months since Mr Sánchez arrived, of 50 euros/megavatio, Alcoa is at grave risk of... — do you want me to tell him? — closing. And it turns out that Mr. Feijóo is to blame! But, Mrs Pontón, you've been in Parliament longer than I do, is this the BNG proposal? The BNG proposal would not be to be with the Galician Council to defend Alcoa's jobs, to defend the jobs of the Bridges and to defend the jobs of the country's entire electrointensive industry? wouldn't that be the proposal of sensible nationalism, Your Honor? [[Applause]] We made proposals for active and passive, but not in the last few weeks, not because Mr Sánchez's legislation had failed for the second time; we knew perfectly well because we managed to get Mr Rajoy's government to propose and admit to the Bridge an investment of more than 200 million euros to reduce emissions and so that that thermal power plant could fulfill the European Union's emissions and continue to operate until 2045. Did you go up the CO2? Yeah, that's right. What's the matter? Because if CO2 is a tax, you'll have to lower taxes somewhere else. For example, the tax on coal, which was suppressed by the gas. What a surprise! Gas supplies taxes and coal, at times of extraordinary difficulty, increases. But how can you take the hair to people, how can you take the hair to all the workers at the Bridge, who after making an investment of 200 million euros and diverting a road from the Galician Union, to expand the company from the point of view of gas emissions, now comes the Government and says that we have to close it already? But what's this joke? How can you remove Galicia 1,500 megawatts of production and tell Alcoa to rise the price of light when Galicia is reducing its production of light simultaneously? And the left looking to the other side, and the left just blaming this government for being the PP. We are from the People's Party of Galicia, we defend Galicia and we have nothing to apologize to this left that does not defend it! Yes, ladies, yes. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, gentlemen, they're throwing people out in the streets in the suburbs of Navantia. There's no problem there, uh, we're not going to touch the Socialist Party. They lied to people in the April elections saying the frigates started. The frigates begin in 2022. What will happen between 2019 and 2022, left-wing lords, members of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party? That Ferrol will be without a job in the naval sector, in auxiliary companies. And what do you propose to Junta? What we've been proposing for months now is an AOR or a LAC, a bridge ship, until we've had the frigates. Why don't you get behind this proposal, which is the proposal that benefits the workers? Look, ladies and gentlemen, if there's a statute for electro-intensive companies, why don't you teach them? If they have the solution, why didn't they put it on the table yesterday? If I have a fantastic solution for a yard, why not teach it to the workers? How can you take the hair of people, come to Galicia, meet in Alcoa and say that the government is in office and can't approve the status? If the courts were operational until fifteen days ago. If anyone approves the statute is the Courts, it's not the Government. And this reason is that the Government cannot approve the statute. And can't you teach him? Can't the Government teach the Intensive Statute? But, Mr. Antonio, Mrs. Pontón, you are frankly......a large member of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, leaving your parliamentary group to the Socialist Party to clarify this morning's parliamentary debate. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] It's not fair, gentlemen! [[Protests.]] Look, this isn't about being with the Union or the Government of Spain, it's not about being with the PP or PSOE, that's about being with the workers and the Galician industry or not. We're with the German industry and the workers, no doubt about it. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is not acceptable for the Government of Spain to intend to greenen its improvisations, bandages and absences of alternative solutions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u42	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u43	Galicia will be greener with a planned and orderly transition. And the base of bandages what's only going to happen is that Galicia will be poorer. Don't count on me for this. I'm going to defend, until the last minute, the work of the electro-intensive industries, the work of the thermal power plants, the work of the Galician industry. Before the Socialist Party they didn't question themselves, after the Socialist Party they're in the air. Mrs. Pontón and Mr. Sánchez...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u44	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u45	...I propose, like the spokesman of the Socialist Party, to work together on this, I propose that they really work together and say very clearly: electrointensive industries have to have a future. There's only one aluminium industry in Spain, it's in Alcoa, Lugo, 30 percent of the province's gross domestic product. What are you going to do, throw the blame on Mr. Feijóo? There you are! You know what I'm gonna do? Working for the Alcoa workers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u46	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u47	...of the bridges and all the industries in the country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u48	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u49	He's counting the workers with the Galician Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u50	Thank you. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Gonzalo Caballero Míguez, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the self-criticism of the Government of Galicia of its management to rectify the political direction of the Union of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u51	Question by Mr Gonzalo Caballero Míguez, spokesperson for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Feijóo, after eleven years with you in front of the Council of Galicia, your speech is a speech of fallacy and irreality. The speech you just made here is a failure of respect for the intelligence of the Greeks and the Greeks. You lie continuously, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] Mind a flat encephalogram speech that no one can buy you. No student at the top of the economy can take the speech that you do here today or that you did yesterday to your economic advisor. How dare you say that the Government of Spain says that a thermal power station should be shut down already? How dare you say CO2 emissions are a tax? Take a manual and learn some economy, Mr. Feijóo. It's very good that the PP bench is always very interested in my words. [[Balbordo.]] Don't worry, let time untie the president if he wants.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u53	Quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u54	Look, Mr. Feijóo: you are President of the Board, and speaking to you is the same as any Galician citizen who has no responsibility. You have no answers. You don't give the country any suggestions. And you don't give them in industrial policy, as you just showed here today, as you just showed in front of all Galicia, with a policy of escapism. I'm not surprised, because you said that the other day in the debate about the state of autonomy, when we asked him to know what Rajoy's Ministry of Defence was doing, and you said very clearly: "Now it turns out if you want to tell Mr. Morenés something, tell him yourself; I take no responsibility." Those are the words of the president of Galician Union, that of someone who assumes no responsibility in terms of Galician reality. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. President bisba.]] Mr. Feijóo, of course you went to take the picture with Pemex, of course you stopped TVG's broadcast to broadcast with candy and plate what didn't happen. And now when there's a yard for creditors, after that opening in which you said, "The success of Barriers is the success of Galicia and the success of the Government of Galicia." Barreras's pre-competition is the demonstration of its exhaustion, of its incapacity, in the social sphere, in the political sphere, in the field of the economy. Of course you have to do self-criticism and acknowledge that your project is exhausted, that it is closing a cycle and that it only opts for political escapism. Or do you have credibility when you talk about political centrality? You must make self-criticism, Mr. Feijóo. Or is he still proud to have supported the People's Party's covenants with the ultra-right, and to continue to speak in all his official speeches of the political centrality, of that centrality that he says every day but that he forgets it when he gives a hurry to the President of Madrid when he has to withdraw the dictator from the Falls Valley, when he asks you what to do churches? [[Murmurs.]] Of course, the People's Party is very uncomfortable with the ideological discourse... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u55	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u56	...because he lost political centrality in Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u57	Quiet. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u58	...and their nervousness is that of a political party that doesn't make self-criticism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u59	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u60	Mr. Feijóo, after eleven years in front of the Galician Union, get off the official car, do self-criticism, rectify in the coming year, have the ability to connect with citizenship and understand the problems of realism. And when you want to find a solution to the problem, stop looking for the policy of confrontation and put Galicia above the interests of marriage and the People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u61	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u62	Congratulations, Mr. Knight! Too bad it didn't last much longer because we could hear it and learn it all. Look, Mr. Knight, it would be nice if you'd reviewed what you just said in the Journal of Sessions. He's really worried about the Valley of the Falls, not about Galicia. This is getting big on you. But we, as we don't know about economic policy, but add and subtract yes, eh! When you ruled the economy, the gross domestic product in Galicia dropped by 3.6%. Now we've been growing thirty quarters, and in the last year 2018 we've grown by 2.8 percent. The average gross domestic product of Galicia since we arrived in government and presented the 2015-2018 Strategic Plan is growing by 3.3 percent, when it dropped by 3.6% with the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. We don't know, but there are fifty-three thousand less unemployed than when you were in government. And, as is logical, when the Bipartite ruled, unemployment rose by 31 percent, and now goes down by 5.6. Some 46,570 more stops in the last legislation from 2016 until now, 46,570 more and sixty more and one more affiliates in this last legislation, from 2016 until now. Even worse, Your Honor, we don't know about economic policy! The economic policy of the Socialist Party is: to reduce membership, to increase unemployment, to reduce economic growth and to ask for the European Union to rescue. Economic policy signed by the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. The energy-free industrial production index: Galicia 3.1 in positive, Spain 0.5 in negative — today's data has just come out of August. We don't know about industrial policy! It turns out that industrial wages in Galicia, from 2009 to 2019, grew by 29 percent. The autonomous community where wages grew the most in the industrial field. From 2014 until now we have created 26,300 jobs in industry. We closed 2018 with more than seventeen percent of the industry in the weight of GDP, and Professor Caballero comes here to talk about the Valley of the Falls. What do you mean? What's the valley of the fallen are those of Alcoa? Do you want to make jokes with the people of the Bridge? But if there are different models in the Socialist Party, and you choose a model. Look how you didn't talk about the bridges, the Alcoa, the Meirama... No, no, if that's not the problem. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You guys do what self-criticism? What self-criticism does the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party do about the 18 evil months of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party? No, you're Mr. Sánchez's CLA. And for that we already have Mr. Sanchez. But I'd rather the original than copy it, among other things, because the original at least won some elections, and you never won them, and you didn't even take out your deputy act. That's a great policy of Mr. Knight. Mr. Knight, with all due respect, I would like to have a Secretary General of the Socialist Party as some socialist militants walking around, sensible and concerned about the country. You're not, you're much more worried about Ferraz than about the Bridges. He's more concerned about Ferraz than about San Cibrao, Lugo and Alcoa. You're much more concerned about getting a little slap on your shoulder when you're going to Madrid than about the country's intensive electro-intensive industries.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u63	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u64	And you're much more concerned about blaming the Galician board of problems that the central government has caused than about trying to tell the central government that you must have a little respect for people, a little respect for people! I wouldn't be able to go to a factory, tell him I have the solution for that factory and don't teach it. Do you know exactly the contents of the Statute for Electrointensive Enterprises?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u65	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u66	Can you believe the Socialist Party is committed to the fact that the price of light will be between 35 and 40 euros for Alcoa? Say it in the House.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u67	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u68	And if you don't say it and don't compromise in the House, you're digging...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u69	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u70	Another squawking, the pontoon, the Meirama squawk...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u71	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u72	...and St. Cibrao-Alcoa,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u73	Thank you, thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u74	...not to mention the storm of Ence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u75	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u76	Mr. Knight, you have a master's degree in job destruction in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u77	Replica, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u78	Mr. Feijóo, there's the People's Party to talk about masters. [[Applause]] Mr. Feijóo, I'm going to tell you that, today, I'm going to be more calm knowing that for you I'm not the Secretary General of the Socialist Party that you would like. I'm going with more peace and satisfaction, because you don't like this Socialist Party because you're losing the momentum of most of the country, because you're disconnected, because you're back in political opposition with your speech. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. President bisba.]] You're wrong, Mr. Feijóo, when he does a control session and wants to control who leads one of the opposition parties. When you ask me questions, when you don't answer, when you're asking for management accounts in Galicia or even the result of the job, and ask the party leader who's a majority in the opposition, you show that he's already closing his political cycle. And we have to tell you to do political self-criticism, that you didn't have good economic management, that you didn't have enough social commitment and mismanagement of social policies. And we have to tell you, Mr. Feijóo, that we also want to talk about political centrality from the left; the political centrality that the People's Party has abandoned, as much as you repeat it in all your official speeches. And of course you don't want to talk about what the People's Party is all about, because you're after so much bot smoking, which is being an executioner of the policies of the People's Party of Marriage. An executioner of the policies of a People's Party who turned to the other right. [[Mr. President bisba.]] And of course, Mr. Feijóo, that we talk about the country's problems. We know that when the mayor of the Bridge meets with you, you don't have any planning or reindustrialization project for this Galician bar, because you don't have industrial policy. And we know, Mr. Feijóo, that when you visit the workers to the plants, you go without any kind of future planning, with only one speech: the blame lies with the Government of Spain. And that speech, Mr. Feijóo, is not in line with Galicia's needs. We need a President of the Union to rule, to give results, to work for the country, to escape the policy of electoral confrontation that Mr. Casado and Mrs. Álvarez de Toledo want. That's the right you represent. I understand that it bothers you that we talk about what you can expect to regain the historical memory, that we defend the name of the Thirteen Roses or that we disagree with the interventions of the President of Madrid when he talks about burning churches. [[Murmurs.]] I can tell you that the Greeks and the Greeks want to solve the industrial crisis, but we also have democratic values and ideas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u79	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u80	And we defend in Galicia, as in Spain, those values, with which you are very uncomfortable when you talk about them and those you don't want to talk about. If you defend most of the Greeks and the Greeks, have the People's Party corrected. When they tell you to quit screwing around, they're showing you that you don't even have the People's Party with credibility anymore, that everything here is a mix of different things. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, Mr Feijóo, the laughter and nervousness of the Group of the People's Party are the end of the PP cycle in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u81	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u82	After this rally, Mr. Caballero's problem is that he only made myths in his life. [[Laughter]] He never handled anything, but from myths you know, eh!, you have to admit it. [[Laughter]] The problem is that you confuse Parliament with a myth, and this is not a myth, Mr. Knight. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Álvarez Consuelo or Álvarez de Toledo, the Valley of the Falls, the right, but are we talking about the workers or what are we talking about? Are we talking about the 2,000 Alcoa jobs or what are we talking about? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We're talking about concrete employment. And I propose, Mr. Knight, since you have the solution for Alcoa, why don't you tell us how the price of light will remain. Since you have an electro-intensive Statute, which is the magic formula, why don't you specify the content and scope of the formula, and we calm down in this session and go, at least, with less trouble? That statute cannot be taught, why? Who is the politician who having the solution doesn't teach it until after the elections? The politician who's tricking us, who has no solution and who will then create a problem. That's you! [[Applause]] I think you should have more respect about the mayor of the Bridges, because with that you can build. We both agree, we made a joint press round. Don't I know exactly what you're reproaching him or me, criticizing me and reproaching him? But if I don't care about the Socialist Party or the People's Party, the problem is The Bridges. But what else does the government of Sánchez or the government of Rajoy give? The problem is Alcoa. What's the matter with Mr. Rajoy or not in the Government, and Mr. Sánchez? The problem is, we have no solution for the eighty thousand families selling wood. That's the problem. The problem, Your Honor, is that it is assumed that this government is not responding, and I have given you all the data on the gross domestic product since I arrived at the government in 2009 to 2019, a decade, in the index of industrial production, of exports, of unemployment, of memberships to Social Security, and we don't respond? But this is an accomplice in the theme of Alcoa and the Bridges, that's chiton, isn't it? That you can't talk about the country's problems, is that chitton? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Good. You ask me for self-criticism. Man, in ten years I guess I made a lot of mistakes. But after three legislatures, if I had to make the balance here of Mr. Sánchez's two legislatures, I would have to die in shame. You ask for self-criticism, but you don't have the slightest criticism of industrial policy and the energy policy of the socialist government in Madrid, no. The best self-criticism we can make is the proposal we made in the debate of the state of Autonomy. We have an innovation project, from industry to our country, in the automotive industry, in the shipbuilding industry, in the agri-food industries, in the wood industry, everything. We have a specific proposal. Look: are you really going to keep on drinking our hair for a long time? Are you going to present the Electrointensive Statute to meet you? I don't ask them to approve it anymore, but at least meet him. Why is the price of light hidden from industries in Galicia? Megasa, Ferroatlantica, Alcoa. Are you going to introduce him or not? We're going to put order in a fair ecological transition on the theme of bridge thermal, yes or no? The mayor of the Bridges and I agree. You agree, yes or no? Every minute that passes, that the Ministry of Industry and Ecological Transition doesn't teach the draft of the electro-intensive industries, it's a minute closer to the closure of Alcoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u83	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u84	And I say it very seriously, Mr. Knight, very seriously. Don't count on me for this, I won't come by. I'm not just going to go through a laxity and an ideological obsession with electro-intensive industries. No, don't count on me for that, eh! No kidding!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u85	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u86	Don't take your hair from the country, don't take your hair from the Greeks. You can insult me whatever you want. Now, take the hair to Galician workers, don't count on me for that. And the Socialist Party is back on a crossroad. If you want to dismantle the electro-intensive industry and the energy industry in Galicia, in the same way you did with the naval industry in Ferrol, this will be part of the biography of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party; the biography of the People's Party and the President of the Union, in no case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u87	Thank you, Mr. President. We continue with the agenda, with non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Daniel Vega Pérez and 13 other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government to ensure the activity of the production centres and the workplaces of the Alcoa factories in San Cibrao and a stable and competitive energy framework, as well as the adoption of a status of support for electrointensive companies
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u88	There are amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Left, the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego and the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u89	Mr Vega has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u90	Very good morning. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Today we bring to the plenary an initiative in the face of the growing concern that exists in the Navy. The future of many people and neighbors, our neighbours, who make up this region is at risk. All as a result of a lack of action by a Government — the Government of Sánchez — unable to provide solutions, and more is in the presence of the minister's visit yesterday, which I did not have any announcement to solve the problem of Alcoa. I think it's convenient to be positioned, and this very camera has already done it unanimously on several occasions. But the reality, what is it? There's a central government that hasn't made a decision for the workers. The workers — do well in this word, gentlemen of the Socialist Party — manifest themselves and demand rapid action. Do you know what the workers give them in Alcoa? I told them you're announcing, but they don't make any decisions. We are full of good words, but we want commitments and solutions already. I'm not telling you, I'm not telling you this parliamentary group, I'm telling you the workers and the company committee. [[Applause]] Consequently, the only thing we ask for is fewer photos of Mr. Caballero and more of the Council of Ministers. The action of this government and the reality of the facts show that Spain has no industrial policy, no energy policy, with unpredictable consequences for Galicia and for thousands of workers, who are abandoned, who are abandoned! They underline this, because the Socialist Party and the whole left don't think of them. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The Greeks and the Galicians, nor the vicinity of the Navy and the province of Lugo, deserve a central government that is dedicated to short-circuiting Galicia's industrial future. You know what's at stake? - That's a good question. The factories with which the multinational Alcoa counts in the local brewery of San Cibrao, for the manufacture of aluminium and aluminium, have a strategic character, since they constitute the main economic and labor engine of the Navy, one of the most important, 32 percent of the province's domestic product. We're talking about the main source of live employment, 6,000 indirect and 2,000 direct. We're talking about 2,000 people in the Navy claiming action, 6,000 people claiming that a government, acting and not putting on and choosing a profile position. One of the main factors affecting the competitiveness and future of this company has to do with the energy cost, with the cost of electricity, as to transform aluminium into aluminium requires an electrolysis process, which needs a lot of energy demand. Only Alcoa-San Cibrao has a consumption equivalent to 30,000 homes, around 40 percent of production costs. The electric bill represents one of the most important costs of the farm account, and the very high price increases that are taking place in recent months put the viability and future of this industrial complex at risk. And everything without the Central Government taking action; yes electoral promises, but never a concrete measure for Alcoa, and consequently for the Navy. Among them, the adoption of the Royal Decree incorporating the Statute of Electrointensive Consumers. Yes, Mrs Otero — that you are the neighbour of the Navy — take note. The figure of the real decree, this regulatory tool, must establish a combination of measures that protect the competitiveness of companies, high energy-dependent companies, by reducing the final cost of supply; a variable especially necessary for companies competing in a global market. At this moment, the price of electricity in Spain is much more expensive than in Germany and France, directly competing. We're talking about a 50-euro light price, and it had to be between 30 and 40 euros. So it's unfeasible, and it's at risk of Alcoa closure. However, the draft of this royal decree submitted last March by the Ministry of Energy and Ecological Transition was not satisfactory for anyone, because it cut the current support system and did not incorporate the demands of the sector. And the Board has validated and presented to the electro-intensive companies the allegations that the future status had included Galicia's proposals, without the answer being met until now. If the Government really wants to find a solution, which meets the mandates of this chamber and the demands of the workers. And we asked ourselves, why not convene the work table in Madrid and incorporate the company committee, the Alcoa Committee in San Cibrao? We also ask ourselves: why does this government announce an increase in indirect CO2 compensation when it hasn't even paid the 90 million euros that have already been approved this year? Why are there election announcements and there's no real commitment? We ask you to increase from 90 million euros to 200 million euros, but you already pay the 90 million euros you have approved! It's time for the Central Government to make decisions! [[Applause]] The problem is not that the central government is in function, the problem is that the government is not working. That's the problem! Why did you change the story so much? Why did you change everything? It is not the first time that tensions exist in the factory as a result of the price of electricity, but on this occasion the situation is much more serious, derived from the inactivity of the central government or from political decisions such as those which since the state executive question the future of energy-producing companies without viable alternatives at competitive prices. The current situation contrasts with what has happened during the successive governments of the People's Party, yes, who have always tried to seek the best possible solution in support of the intensive industry, with negotiations between President Rajoy and the international President of Alcoa, with the establishment of support measures for pauses for interruptions, which today have lost competitiveness and, as a result, we have the unabated price of light, with compensation for the indirect costs of CO2 or — Mrs. Otero, you are my neighbour of the Navy and you know that what I am going to tell you is a solemn truth — with the construction of the marine gas pipeline, which has significantly reduced the energy cost of the marine factory. In addition, today the situation is aggravated by the fact that the multinational has already broken off from the factories located in the Coruña and Avilés, or the decision that I've never made before this factory: to close 32 basins from the San Cibrao factory. The People's Parliament sets out this initiative, which is based on two points in agreement: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Parliament to address the Government of Spain and ask it to: 1)Re-establish all the necessary actions to ensure production centres and jobs in the Alcoa-San Cibrao factories; 2)guarantire a stable and competitive energy framework, and immediately adopt the Statute of Support for Electro-Intensive Enterprises, in which the allegations presented together by the Galician Union and the Galician companies are incorporated." I think it's very clear what we just asked for. I believe that they can vote affirmatively, they would not be voting affirmatively to this parliamentary group, simply, they would be voting affirmatively for the future of the region and, consequently, for the future of all the Greeks. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Vega. Parliamentary groups, on behalf of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, have the floor of Mrs Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u92	Mr. Vega, with all the respect you know I have, to be so worried about the People's Party they could have gone a little bit and worked a little bit more for this initiative. Because what they're proposing today is nothing different than what we've already voted on several times, or the agreement we signed on September 25th. You must have been very busy with that photo question. I wouldn't comment on it, but, since you insisted so much, man! for photos, those that pull out the People's Party at the door of Alcoa without any worker, like last weekend, Mr. Vega. At least yesterday they had incorporated a little more seriousness into the inn. [[Applause]] But the truth was, yesterday, they were angry because I did my words to Mr. Conde, who said it was useless for nothing to visit Feijóo to Alcoa. And today I have to repeat it again: it's not worth anything! because it's a president without political weight, because yesterday he didn't come to this Greek Parliament because he didn't want to face the industrial crisis; because he has no choice but to oppose the opposition, and to oppose the central government. But it's a mouthful! Because when it comes to demanding alternatives, the only thing that happens to you is to cry constantly on the issue of electrointensives' statute. And, I say, at this point, no one, or the Socialist Party itself, trusts them to pull out this statute of electrointensives one day. I'm starting to think that the statute of electrointensives is like God. Until I see him, until I see an irrefutable proof, I will of course not believe him. And so if that's not good for us, if that way isn't going to save Alcoa, we should raise the debate a little bit further, we should start thinking about what we want to keep Alcoa working. We insist: it's not normal for us to keep paying these energy prices being surpluses, we insist on that question. We know that you prefer to remain state "dependent" and that while other industries — like the Basque — do not have this problem, we still have it. But, in any case, we introduced into our amendment other alternatives, alternatives of the works committee itself, with which yesterday they were gathered and gathered, the alternative that they sent us to all groups in the House last March and that you voted against in this Parliament at that time. Today they're in time for rectification. Workers and workers ask serious questions on the table, such as that immediate payment of CO2. That's where we agree. Why isn't that payment in advance? Well, we include it in the proposal we're going to vote for today. But there are also other issues that they pose, such as specific reductions in fees, such as removing certain specific issues from the industrial tariff, which are detailed to undermine them. These are concrete proposals, seven, which are annexed to this amendment which we have tabled since the BNG, echoing ourselves, and which link all the advantages offered to Alcoa to the maintenance of jobs. We learn something from the past, we learn from the past, and we link that question. There are also elements such as bilateral contracts, elements such as removing hydraulic and nuclear power plants from the wholesale market, and thereby undermining the bill, etc. And with regard to the auction of interruptability, of course, you come here as if you'd never, ever, ever of the Jamases, ruled in the Spanish state. Then I remember — if they didn't understand it when Mrs. Pontón told Mr. Feijóo — that it was you who changed an industrial tariff for a fee through the interruptability mechanism, which is a Russian roulette. And above all, you've cut the deadline. It was Mr. Rajoy who changed the unstable auctions of a year for six-month auctions. So they assume the proposal of the Alcoa workers, let's talk, at least, about a three-year framework when we don't agree with another framework in the electricity sector. But the truth is, you're tired because you come here exclusively to do your electoral message and without any kind of rigour looking for an alternative. Because we agree with the criticisms you make to the central government on most of the issues they put on the table, because there are reasonable and reasonable criticisms that, of course, we also demand the central government. But, of course, there has to be an alternative on the part of the Galician Union that is more than crying in front of the gallery and without exercising any kind of political power. And then, through the back door, I'm still convinced that you are happy and congratulated every day that you rule in Madrid another political party to have whoever blames you. But, of course, with inns in Alcoa, with or without workers, of course, we're not going anywhere. What you have to assume is that the same failed recipes that have always been the ones that led us to this situation. And that, beyond their obedience and quarreling that they have at the centralist framework and what Mr. Casado tells them from Madrid, you'll have to tell him to quit screwing around, make this country stand, and of course our industry has to have all the keys to be competitive.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u93	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u94	But that doesn't happen to come here uniquely and exclusively to repeat the clichés that Mr Feijóo said at first thing in the morning...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u95	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u96	...come to see alternatives with a little seriousness. So I don't ask them to assume what we propose to BNG anymore, but at least they incorporate in their amendment the proposals that come from the company committee and do something serious for once.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u97	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. You have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group on the Left, Mrs Chao Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u98	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. First of all, I want to say that from the Joint Left Group we agree with what this evil initiative we understand is incomplete, and that is why we have tabled an amendment which I will explain later. In any case, we agree on the fundamentals. We ourselves, from our parliamentary group, have put forward many initiatives in this regard, since defending industry and jobs is a priority of this parliamentary group. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Mr. Vega, you can bring this initiative and even pretend you have no responsibility. But, you see, people know perfectly well that they've been ruling this country in the last decade, plus every year that they've ruled before, that they've ruled in the state until there's practically nothing and that you've been the ones who regulated the electricity market like to come here and say that you have no responsibility. And, no, it's not true — as it says in your initiative — that the pauses were solving the problem, nor those high-level negotiations that you're talking about in your explanatory statement. Interruptibility was a mechanism that I never satisfied the electro-intensive companies because of the instability I assumed. That is, Alcoa's problems have come a long time, and you haven't done anything to solve them at all. It's true, they've gotten worse now. But here there are clear responsibilities on both sides, for the Government of the People's Party — which is allowing the industrial dismantling of this country — and for the Central Government. The Government of Pedro Sánchez had promised an electro-intensive status still in the electoral campaign, a statute that has not yet arrived. And — you have to say clearly — Mr Sánchez is failing the people of Galicia because the commitments are only on announcements, on wet paper, or on campaign photos, as yesterday's minister with Mr Feijóo on his late visit — often requested — to San Cibrao. And you are, Mr. Vega, to talk about photos, because yesterday they were both, were the Socialist Party and the People's Party of the arm taking pictures of Alcoa so as not to put any solution on the table, and curiously at the same time, on the same day, when the Alcoa workers were declaring in Ferrol by the application of their bite law, which is used to pursue the working class that defends its rights. Likewise, Mr. Vega, if you wanted to commit yourself so much to the workers, you could have come by there, that I'm sure they would receive you gladly. I use to express once again all our support. It's a shame that workers who defend their rights, who also defend the need for electrointensive status, will be prosecuted. As has been said here, one of the main problems facing a lot of this country's industry is the high price of energy, in a country where we are surpluses, and which in some cases accounts for up to 50% of production costs. That's why the adoption of the Statute of Electrointensive Consumers is urgent, a real decree that today is just a draft that has received a lot of allegations and that the affected individuals have been qualified as insufficient to ensure the competitiveness of our industry against those of countries such as France and Germany. Alcoa himself said that draft wasn't enough. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, the excuse for the government being in office in this case, for this, it is useless. They had time to have him approved, and they had an urgent commitment. We have to work to reduce the cost of energy that industry needs, but also, of course, to require governments to monitor their continuity, that the favourable conditions given to industry will be linked to some commitment to continuity. It can't be that public money is given over and over to industries that don't engage in job maintenance. So what do we propose in our amendment? For, first of all, to convene a working table and dialogue with representatives of the company, the workers and the workers, and the competent administrations in order to find a future solution for the aluminium factory which ensures continuity and viability of the company, as well as the jobs. Secondly, the Royal Decree of the Statute of Electrointensive Consumers, a regulation which must aspire to the fact that the Spanish electrointensive industry has a certain price and guarantees on the same towards the future — being key to the stability of prices in order to assure the sector, which is what they demand — must be adopted as a matter of urgency. And third, to carry out, within the framework of the Statute of Electrointensive Consumers, the regulatory changes necessary for the establishment of a regulated energy tariff for the use of industries or activities qualified as intensive according to Spanish and Community legislation; and to make the regulatory changes necessary to adapt the demand for interruptability management service — which, as I said, has never been satisfactory to the industry — to strictly respond to the needs derived from the security of the Spanish electric system, reducing the volume of interruptable power, limiting the maximum remuneration for the provision of the service and simplifying the conditions for the execution of demand reduction, so that it is indeed a demand management system in addition to covering emergency situations. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u99	Thank you very much, Mrs Chao. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Otero Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u100	Thank you, President. Good morning. Well, Mr. Vega, go paper! Because you came here to talk about hearing without listening to the legal representatives of the workers. Because how many times have you met with the company committee in the last few months? None! Beyond those pilgrimages that go up to the factory door, but not to meet with any legal representative of the workers, just to take the photo of the People's Party's office in the province of Lugo. And I say he talks about hearings because, besides not meeting with the legal representatives of the workers, he doesn't seem to talk to the president of the Galician Union either. Because you just said here that the Government of Spain won't pay the costs of CO2. Look, look, the minister transferred them yesterday, both to the legal representatives of the workers and to the management of Alcoa, and to the president of the Galician Union himself, that those aids, those costs, went to the Council of Ministers next Friday. And the president of the board lied in this House saying he didn't know anything. And he also lied when he said they didn't know anything about the status of electrointensives. [[Applause]] Because, by the way, the minister yesterday made the commitment and already created a follow-up table of Alcoa-San Cibrao, which is not going to be held in Madrid, not; it will be held in Lugo, it will be held in San Cibrao and will be in Galicia, the company, the trade unions and also the central government. And at that follow-up table, which is going to have the first meeting in a short time — which is going to be put this week — it was said that this draft of electrointensive status will be presented at the first meeting, okay? So he's going to introduce himself, but the president of the board knows him, he told the Minister of Industry yesterday. But, of course, here the president says that you can't lie in the House, but the mind repeatedly. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And, look, this government, the government of Pedro Sánchez, was the first government to bet on this status of electrointensives. [[Mr. Vega Pérez pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u101	Silence, Mr. Vega! You've got another shift later. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u102	That's what put the status of electrointensives on the political agenda. Have you done anything before in the seven and a half years of Mariano Rajoy's government? They didn't do anything. So let's see, it was the socialist government that put this status on the table. I know what your strategy is. And you know well that this statute cannot be passed by a government in function. They will continue to lie, they will continue to miss the truth, because you well know that neither by the law of the Government of 1997 nor by the reports of the Council of State nor by the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court can be passed. But, look, the Royal Decree passed in December 2018 was already the first step to be able to approve this status of electrointensives. And more action was put on the table, as these companies that receive these aids have to keep their jobs for three years. These are measures that the central government is putting on the table. What have you done — why now I urge you to approve this status of electrointensives —? Yes, I tell them what you did, because, look, Mr. Vega, it's not true that ever lived in Alcoa if there were crisis situations that led to the stopping of tanks. Please inform yourself. There were other situations. And what did the People's Party government do? Put patches, because they never put a definitive solution on the table. What workers' legal representatives are asking for is a stable energy framework, and you've only been patching up. [[Applause]] And these patches now lead us to this situation that's going through Alcoa. Look at the costs of CO2, increase, double, aid to EUR 180 million, which is the maximum that the European Union can afford. And look also at something else -- because you talked yesterday, and you don't seem to have that information, Alcoa-San Cibrao is going to receive everything you asked for for CO2 costs. So stop lying. Besides, Mr. Vega seems to have not met him here, he has approved 200 million in the interruptability auctions. So stop lying. It's just, look, the only thing we ask the Government of Galicia to do, and since they're not going to do anything, at least they don't put sticks on the wheels of a government that's working for the electro-intensive industry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u103	Silence! Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u104	So a little bit of rigor and institutional loyalty. That moved him to the ministry too...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u105	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u106	...to the President of the Board himself in a letter he sent to him. Please, institutional loyalty, as in other moments [...]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u107	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u108	And, look, we're always going to be with the workers and fighting...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u109	Thank you very much. Your time is up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u110	...for the maintenance of employment in Alcoa-San Cibrao. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u111	Thank you very much. For the Mixed Group has the floor Mr. Casal Vidal, though there was another who already wanted to pass before. They wanted to leave him without talking, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u112	I've seen, I've seen. No one wants us. This is terrible. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, let's get serious, it's a very serious matter. The situation is indeed very worrying. The company, for the first time, reports that the integrated aluminium-aluminum complex can go into losses this year. It's the first time, because it's true that sometimes he had aluminum losses and sometimes he had aluminum losses, but always the consolidated result was positive. But the problem is not just the energy, really. You've forgotten a lot of other things that I do compete with this government as well. We will of course support the proposal, because we have already voted in favour of it three times. Okay, I don't know if it was appropriate to repeat it, but you look good, within your schedule, to bring it in for the third time and of course we'll vote in favour. But forget what the responsibilities of the Galician Union are. And yesterday, to finish, the Minister of Industry brought more uncertainty than solutions. He called into question that the December interruptability auction can be lifted. They seem to say they have problems with the European Union to get it out of the way. Then he also said that the statute would lower the megawatt/hour about 40 or 45 euros. But he didn't say how. I'm not surprised. Yes, he said that they should increase CO2 duty compensation to 176 million and that it would be approved next week. To see if it's true and they execute it immediately and completely, because last year they were able to execute 150 million that were in the budgets and they only executed 92. So let's hope this time they run the entire available budget. And already taking advantage of Pisuerga passing through Valladolid, the president of Alcoa took advantage, and I'm amazed because Mr. Feijóo recognized him here, and swallowed that Alcoa paid the megawatt/hour to 35 euros in 2017. That's fake. The megavatio/industrial time has never been paid in Spain in recent years to EUR 35. Of course, the president of Alcoa wants to take advantage, and that the Spaniards paid him much beyond what would be necessary for Alcoa to be profitable. Alcohol is profitable between 40 and 42 euros megavatio/hour, the price they pay in France. And you know why they pay that price in France? Because that's the solution. I know we've repeated it a thousand times, but that's the only solution. The only solution is to get the hydraulic and nuclear energy out of the daily pool, sell it at the price charged and that Alcoa can make a PPA with the electrics at a price charged. But, of course, that's the solution but that would touch the illegitimate benefits of the electrics -- which we've endured for many years -- the fallen benefits of the sky. And when the profits of the electricians are touched, then the defense of the workers of Alcoa and the Navy weakens in the ranks of some parties — objectively the People's Party, who don't want to hear or hear about it, and I don't know if the ranks of the Socialist Party of Galicia, which, at the moment, has never supported the nuclear industry and the hydroelectric industry, already amortized, have to get out of the pool. Let us hope that they will reflect and realize that this is the only solution. But things go a lot further. There's already 32 cupboards. If entire series were to be stopped, the situation could be really very problematic; especially because the interruption would be breached, with which Alcoa would have to return the money and the thing could get to a situation almost prior to possible dismantling. That's why they take it seriously. Of course, I take it seriously by the Socialist Government gentlemen, but the Galician Union also has things to do, because Alcoa has a lot more to do. Because, of course, in the company balance we're talking about costs, but we should also talk about income. How would they improve Alcoa's income? For example, by getting Alcoa to put the gas on the aluminium plant. The Government of Galician Union took the gas to the door of Alcoa. They used it for aluminium but they don't use it for aluminum. That would lower costs and improve quality. They're burning fuel to heat the aluminum casting furnaces. That's immeasurable, and the Galician board should say: We spend the money to take the gas to the door, now you have to install it. We also need to ask Alcoa to stop producing low-quality aluminum, which has to improve processes in order to make aluminum which is usable in the aeronautics, in the car, which is not happening right now. That's the problem. They're selling at very prices under what they could do. Then you have to demand Alcoa not to do what you've done in May, because this stop they had already planned for it in May and they asked only 335 interrupted megawatts.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u113	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u114	Let the Galician Union demand that, if there is finally auction, they get as much as the plant needs, to 385. In short, they claim to the State Government what you have to do — of course, we too — but you do your job...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u115	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u116	...because they seem to have given up ruling. Are you guys already in function, too? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Vega Pérez has the floor on the author group of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I could answer them in a choral way because the speech is quite choral on the left, but I'm going to stick to whoever has responsibilities. It's true, Mrs. Presas, with all my respect to you too, that your speech is continuous, they keep saying the same thing: the Welsh electric tariff. No, the coherent thing is to tell the truth. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They know that the electricity tariff is a lie, they know that it doesn't exist in the Basque Country. And they know perfectly well that it's necessary to say it because they're comfortable with an easy speech, but it's not real. Look, the 90 million is a clear claim, 90 million euros have to pay, and we're asking for an increase to 200 million. So that's it. And it has already been approved in this House. So, if there is a unanimous agreement, why do I have to put back on a text that is already approved — and what we know perfectly well is this Government claiming? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, gentlemen on the left generally, I won't answer 'cause I'd be wasting my time. And I'd be wasting my time because there's a magnificent intervention by Mrs Otero. [[Murmurs.]] She said, "Papelon! Hey, paper yours! Papelón's own! Look, you're from the Navy like me. You, therefore, had to defend the marine neighbours. He used the defense of his beloved leader, Mr. Sánchez and Mr. Caballero. You chose to defend Mr. Knight instead of the Marines. It's scandalous, it's scandalous! You know perfectly well what Alcoa needs: a new status. [[Applause]] Why didn't the minister come yesterday and say, "This is the new status, here you have it?" But they want to hide it. You know why? Because they want to lie, they want to cheat, they want to cover up what you can't solve. Of course, that's what happens to the Socialist Party. Defend the Marine Neighbors and not their party, defend the Navy, that that's what's important! Look, you say here that Government Sánchez has already paid. But what did he pay? No, no, you say I don't know and I don't speak to the president of the board. I'm talking! Do you know what's going on? That Government Sánchez didn't pay the 90 million euros. You've already approved them, you haven't paid them. If you haven't paid 90, why do I have to believe you're going to pay 200 million euros -- you don't even approve of them? Hey, you come here to defend a paperboard, a role that cost you to defend. I know it took him to defend me, but, of course, the guidelines of the beloved leader are tough and the guidelines must follow them. Of course, I understand it perfectly.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u119	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u120	Look—and finish—the solution is very easy, we approve a statute immediately, a statute, and the problem is solved. Energy costs can't go on like this.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u121	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u122	We have to cost Alcoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u123	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u124	And consequently, we will defend 2,000 jobs and 6,000 indirect...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Vega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u126	That's defending Galicia. Less speeches and more. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Vega. Before we move on to the next initiative, we want to welcome, on behalf of all, the students of IES Alfonso X the Wise, of Cambre, students of the training cycles of Administrative Management and Administration and Finance. Welcome to Parliament. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Mr. José Luis Rivas Cruz and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the German Government in respect of the alleged irregularities detected by the neighborhood of Soprado dos Monxes in relation to the balsas of different origins in the mountains of the municipality
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u128	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u129	Mr Rivas Cruz has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u130	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you. At the end of August of the current year, different written media outlets echoed for the first time the discomfort of the neighbors of Sobrado dos Monxes due to irregularities in the transport, storage and distribution of sludge from different origins, as well as parts of products that pass through to be fertilizers but do not comply with any legal regulations. But this story, this situation, is not new. We have been enduring this abnormal situation for 12 years, and we are not aware that there have been complaints from Seprona or any other environmental control and protection service. These deposits, many of them camouflaged around and hardly visible, scattered by the mountains of that municipality, do not meet the minimum required conditions and are used as storage before their contents are distributed as supposed fertilizer among some peasants, we want to assume that ignorant of the danger of their use. These deposits and these practices dance the short distance from the births of the Mandeo and Tambre rivers, being the greatest danger when the rains are copious, for the unclosed and uncovered rafts overflow and the mud descend slopes and streams searching for the main river. First illegality, or, if you like, irregularity, because the Headmistress General of Environmental Quality this Friday didn't matter to you about this fact. Of course, he also pointed out that the analyses of what was there were within the parameters of the fertilizers registered by Agroamb Prodalt S.L., a company that seems to be the one who delivers the bulk of these -- at the moment we call them -- "high-value farmers." What he didn't tell is that on the same day of the inspections this subscriber visited two of these rafts, and one of them contained milk serum with high caustic soda content coming from a nearby industrial polygon that poured into the Furelos and which, after many complaints, chose to drop them into the lands of Sobrado, before mixing with other unknown muds and with the ability to know the devil who. That dairy company has a good participation by the board and no one will convince us that the Environmental Council knows anything. I'd dare say he knows enough about the subject. The Director General of Environmental Quality also stated this Friday that the contents of these rafts were in each and each of them a fertilizer registered by the Agroamb Prodalt S.L. company. like Agrothame organizes purine. This is a liquid NK organ-mineral allowance, class B, in this case distributed in bulk. What's so pretty about that name? They want to take it to one's reading and throw it to the potatoes and other vegetables in the house. Well, this pompopous name is one of the fifteen different fertilizers this company has registered, maybe! [[Applause]] What do the clandestine rafts of Sobrado reveal? For they reveal a very serious problem, which is not only in Sobrerado; they discover the uselessness of two advisories, on the one hand, that of the Environment, which is unable to control the debugging sludges, the leached from the spills and the debris of the diuretics on the route that corresponds to them from the emission site until they arrive at the treatment plant. Because these dangerous concentrates have all the regulations they must comply with, follow-up by the Welsh Administration. For the Environment Council does not manage in twelve years that Seprona and other environmental control devices detect neither these copio rafts nor the joyful use in the fields of cultivation. On the other hand, since these muds and dumplings arrive at the door of Agroamb, in Castro de Rey, the responsibility of control corresponds to the rural environment. You have to have a pick-up card with your corresponding analysis. Made of the product -fertilizing, in theory - when going out to the distribution counters, you must carry a sheet with the corresponding analytical, the guide to the truck and must be deposited in a properly waterproofed, fenced and covered docks. And if they're not covered, they have to leave empty enough capacity so that rainwater doesn't make the contents overflow. How many of these conditions were met in Sobrado? None. But there's still more. When they arrive to the farmer who will use these things, the company that provides them has to take the analysis and the farmer must have done an analysis of the soil where they will be used, because it is necessary that the heavy metals that have the soil and the fertilizer do not exceed the permitted limits; in addition to the farms must be properly identified in the SIXPAC. But in Sobrerado everything was special. The clandestine smugglers came in directly from EDARs, the guides were changed on the way and they didn't sell, no, they gave themselves or paid the farmers to throw those sludges. But the Headmistress General stated that all the rafts discovered with drones - five says she, we say that two are missing; in our accounts there were seven - contained the famous Agrothame organite purine duly copied and that there was no need to worry. But I can say the opposite, because that day, before the inspections, the gods of chance made this Member who talks to them visit at two of these rafts and I saw him bubbling one of them profusely with bubbles like the size of fists. If they were occupied by that Agrothame organite purine, they shouldn't be in fermentation, or such fertilizer is false, because one of the conditions is that it has to be inertial. But there's more, yes, there's more. The two rafts that appear in the photographs of the press were emptied that night and were moved their contents to others without waterproofing, which were grounded and mixed their contents. And now who's in contrast to the analyses made? What can we base our accusations of convolence and prevarication on? Because if the material deposited in the rafts was a fertilizer suitable for its employment in agricultural activity, what should have been done to empty the rafts so quickly and in the way it was done, with nighttime and alleviation? Well, for an attempt to remove evidence from the contrary, that they say these official analytics. Because if they didn't get immobilized, why didn't they get immobilized, just like we see in American movies? What do you want to hide from each other? But here, in this, there may also be surprises, time at time. Once again, the Block comes here accusing the Environmental Prevarication Councillor. Yes, I tell you more, since the BNG we have accused the Government of crime, of irresponsibility, because it allows it to play with the health of people and the environment, and above all because it is putting on trial cloth with its permissibility the good name of the products of the farmers and farmers of the region that occupy us and others unfortunately from all over the country. The matter is serious, ladies and gentlemen. I continue. I suppose they don't miss Soprado's "lodo connection" working for Agroamb Prodalt; they're not surprised if I tell them that such a company should be aware of these practices and irregularities because their business is that. Or is the only culprit what's at the end of the chain face-to-face in Sobrerado to break it off and holy pastures? Well, since the BNG, we think it's necessary to look for those responsible for this disguise, order and legality. You can't finish the problem with dubious analysts. It will be necessary that the practices that endanger the good name of our farmers and livestock, of our milk and of our flesh be freed from the intrusion and suspicion. Those who mask under fertile pomous names who are then not and become poison to the ferocious agricultural lands and to the waters of this battered country must be exposed and called to the chapter by law, or not? So we propose a deal. The first two parts are no longer possible because "proceeding the search, sealed and subsequently elimination of the clandestine rafts" has already been done at night. "Transport the sludge and materials contained in them to a management company for its treatment," that's already covered. The first two points can be obvious. But "to carry out the relevant analyses of the soils that have been receiving those sludges..." if you have to do them, and you have to know how much eutrophication and how much excess heavy metals there are in those soils. "Establishing inspections due to the company responsible for these sludges..." because, of course, we have to look for the traceability of all these products and contrast with analytical treatment given to them before taking them to Soprado, we also have to do it. And we also need to check if the sludges stored were handled correctly. We must comply with the law. It's not what they tell us day after day, it's not legalism...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u131	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u132	...is the spirit of legality, and the spirit of legality is to protect the public health of the citizens of this country and the good name of our ill-treated agriculture, our ill-treatment gain. Do it and support this LNP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u133	Thank you very much. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Vilán Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u134	Thank you, President. Today I do not come to speak of Vulcan, of course, but since here there are Members and Members who are speaking every day of the same companies that are in a complicated situation, it is good to remember that Vulcan is also in a very complicated situation and that its solution depends and always depends on the Council of Galicia and therefore on the Government of the People's Party. It's necessary to say it too. [[Applause]] "Vulcan also exists," for, indeed, the Monsorado also exists, and the problem with waste in Galicia also exists. This is another proof that we have a problem in waste management that you can't rely on a waste law that you said you were already carrying counsellor Bea Mato when you were counsellor and that you said you were going to get out. So we're still waiting for that waste law, which is going to be like the mana, because it's going to solve all the waste problems in this country. "Galice is green and will still be greener." For with this situation of waste supposedly used as Galician fertilizers it will be browner than greener; or we have a brown, probably, in Galicia with waste management. Ten years ruling, ten years depositing waste around and a government that makes it all into a futureable law. But then: "We will not be taught the left on the environment." That's the last one, the last pearl we've got there. Then a review of the election program for the general election of the People's Party, or April, and it turns out that it talks about the environment half-page and waste in a series of phrases that would really require a selectivity examination: "We will promote a legal framework that will allow the necessary investments to continue to improve recycling systems." Sintactically perfect. Of course, in little meaning, very little. "We will promote in the autonomous waste management plans criteria that prioritize waste recovery, both energy and material, against their disposal in landfills." Great! Of course, soon we arrived at the Monxes' Soprado, and it's true that for years there has been temporary storage of mud rafts, viscous muds and intense smells, people living in Soprado say. And some of them are fenced, some of them are closed with wires, and some of them are not closed, and they pose a danger to animals and a danger to people, even though they are very difficult -- they were very difficult -- to detect. The muds, when it rains, as they're not closed, run up and downhill, run downhill, and therefore too, is a danger to aquifers, to water and to the environment and people's health. We said yesterday - and we keep it - that it is necessary for agribusiness to be compatible with the protection of the environment and with the protection of people's health. We believe that the Environment Council has to demonstrate its transparency and investigate the source and composition of waste, the storage conditions, whether or not they are reaching catch zones -- because, then, the problem is still greater -- and whether or not the good state of the waters of the Mandeo and Tambre rivers is damaged. We have no data. We believe that, in addition, those data that the Council puts on the table have to be shared with the Council of Sobrerado dos Monxes, with the other administrations and also with the Agriculture Council. So we've registered a replacement amendment to this non-law proposal. We believe that they need to do a study, first of all, about whether these sludges were treated properly to be used as fertilizers, as the BNG spokesman well said. Secondly, about whether soils are free of any substance that causes a danger to the environment or to people's health. And thirdly, about whether they are approaching water catchment areas and, above all, the Mandeo and Tambre rivers. We also call on the Government to inspect with the highest speed and urgency and to take preventive measures, accurate precautionary measures, no longer the preventive seal of these bergs in particular, because, as the BNG spokesman said, they are already sealed, but for example, the ban on access to the surroundings of those bergs because they pose a danger to all the people who live there. We must remember that in the hills of Galicia there are people who are going to hunt, who have animals, and they themselves, hunters and animals, live in the danger of falling into those rafts. We hope our amendment is accepted. For our own sake, that's all. Thank you very much
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u136	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. The sewage sludges have their source in human waste, in industrial waste, which turns into water, and the problem is that they have organisms and substances that can impact human and environmental health when they exceed certain levels. They are mostly pathogen micro-organisms, heavy metals and synthetic organic compounds. The failure to plan for the management of debugger sludge, plant sludge and specific treatment in our country is promoting complaints in recent years of both neighborhood communities, affected by mud spills in the lands of cultivation and the mountains, as well as the neighborhood in general. Neighbors and neighbours of the parishes close to the place of storage refuse to bear the strong scents that come out of the mud after their dumping and doubt the consequences that such practices may cause, in terms of contamination, on the lands and aquifers of those who supply themselves. Although management companies have repeatedly stated the environmental safety of sludge deposits on farms and their advantages as fertilizers, over time they have created collectives and associations of affected and there have been protests that claim responsibilities to administrations, municipalities and the Galician Union itself. In some cases, they have even asked to analyze samples of sludge to laboratories on their own initiative to know what is the possible presence of heavy metals, bacteria or other chemical or dangerous substances for human health, for crops or for agricultural management lands, and yes, they have given positive results. We're talking about tons of industrial or urban mud that are cracked every year at rafts that aren't permeable or already directly on the cultivable floor. The food we eat from these lands is therefore produced on soils fertilized with digested muds that contain dangerous substances. The consequences in other countries have been disastrous - we're talking about Canada, we're talking about the United States... - disease, heavy metal poisoning, etc. Responsible farmers and citizens are denouncing this practice. Official government scientists from these countries, from Canada, eventually got a very clear picture of what this practice was supposed to be doing and how the problem grew; a problem that's good to get it out of the public to know what we should do in the future. The fedor generated by the spills, as Mrs Vilan and Mrs Mini said before, raises suspicions between the neighborhood, which complains that most of these sludges intended to expel the land are not previously treated with prolonged storage or biological, chemical or thermal techniques that reduce fermentation and health risks, as indicated by the current legislation, which does exist. On the other hand, in relation to this debate, some experts warn of problems of untreated sludge contamination and that the droplets on agricultural land could pass to the food chain and produce, in the worst case, genetic alterations, allergies or even fertility problems. The lack or transparency - we also talk about the role of some administrations here, when we discuss the Water Supply Act - the management of these wastes by the Board and the difficulties that the groups have encountered in accessing information on this matter make the neighbors and neighbors in many cases resort to the experience and knowledge of different groups and associations of waste management specialists, who have jointly filed complaints before the administrative authorities. The solution, according to the affected community, is in compliance with the legislation of the waste managers and in the creation of more sewage treatment plants in our country that guarantee environmental viability and agriculture in their application in the lands of cultivation. Even some organic fraction composting facilities in the trash are also designed to treat sludge, but for the time being they have not been used. So it's necessary for the neighborhood of Sobrerado dos Monxes to fix this problem. It's clear that they can't be enduring that smell, that they can't allow their aquifers to be contaminated and that they can't allow their cropland to be contaminated. So we're going to support this non-law proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u137	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. For the Joint Left Group, Mr. Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u138	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. "Galicia quality," that was one of the slogans rescued by Mr. Feijóo in the last debate of the state of Autonomy, in that presentation of this happy Arcadia, this fantastic Galicia which is only at the head of Mr. Feijóo. He pulled several slogans from the memory trunk, including "Galicia quality." In this position of hiding, throwing smoke bombs to hide reality, they forgot to show the reality that we are living in Galicia, and the reality is that they do not comply with their inspection and control work; the reality is that we live a situation of true collapse of environmental management and waste management; the reality is the use of these sludges as fertilizers, which do not comply with the legality; and the reality is the use of these sludges as fertilizers in agricultural uses. I don't know if in government, when they talk about quality Galicia, when you saw the occurrence of using quality Galicia, you're thinking about these problems that Galicia has. I don't know if that's how they intend to protect the quality of our agricultural products and our livestock products. I don't know if that's how they intend to guarantee the quality of raw material that will finally be part of our gastronomy. And above all, I don't know if they're aware of the risk they have to the environment and to people's health. Inevitably, with this question we also have to talk about the whole water cycle, as we talked about yesterday, because there are several of these rafts that are found less than a mile from the birth of the Tambre River and the Mandeo River. I don't know if they're voting conscious of the damage that this kind of situation is causing in our territory, I don't know if they're aware of the incidence of pollution in our rivers, if they understand the irresponsibility of pollution of our rivers or the incidence of heavy metals pollution in our rivers and in productive sectors as important as Galician and fishing, and if they don't know if you know that this situation can seriously endanger an area of high ecological and country-friendly value, such as the reservation of the biosphere of the Crowned Marines and Lands of Mandeo. Yesterday in this House we discussed a proposal by the People's Party, the Galician Union, a proposal for a law of emergency situations in the face of drought, which they could also call "Lei de claire de competences e montage de piping", because the integral cycle of water was totally out of this law. Initiatives like this are those that talk about the whole water cycle, which you want to avoid. If they want to supply -- we told them yesterday -- if they want to secure supply in drought periods and if they want to reduce the social and environmental vulnerability derived from climate change, we must once and for all address the environmental conservation of our rivers and end the systematic contamination of our watercourses and our aquifers. And we don't say that, say all the water cycle conservation experts, like Professor Arrojo, with whom we collaborate. He doesn't like anything about the People's Party that we collaborated with the experts, that we collaborated with the only Goldman environmental prize that was held in the Spanish state. You are more of working with Agustín Hernández, Mr. Aznar and Rajoy's cousin. But not only do the experts say it, but the law says it, the state legislative framework on water, and the Water Framework Directive says it: priority must be given to the conservation of the remedy in the face of drought situations. They need to understand that their waste management model directly collapsed, that the large number of environmental issues related to inefficient waste management requires immediate and urgent actions. It can't be that our territory is turning into a big dump, it can't be that they keep throwing garbage all over the territory of Galicia. It is enough for companies to dictate the legal requirements in environmental matters, and it is enough to destroy our territory. And you know that, in addition to the environmental problems that this entails and the health problems, it is leading to a multitude of problems of coexistence in different places in Galicia. There are countless cases -- and they know us well -- they go through the Compostela neighborhoods, through Orders, through Grixoa, through Touro, go to Cerceda and ask the neighbors that they live with all those dumps that have spread across the country and in what situation they are. Ask them if it's possible to live with those smells and that level of pollution. And go to the Monks' Surrado and tell people that they have a very diligent government, that they're in control and that they're watching that these things don't happen. It's over. We are, of course, going to support this initiative, and if you have any interest in preserving the whole cycle of water, supply and drought, the People's Party should also vote favourably. We'll see what they do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u139	Thank you, Mr. Cal. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u140	Yes, Mr. Cal, I won't lose more than a second saying that I have a lot of respect for Mr. Arrojo, and more since I read his contributions to hydraulic policies, but the problem is to plagiarise Mr. Arrojo and not say so. And that's it, I don't mean anything else. If you're proud and happy with what you've done, come on! That's your role. And also, ladies and gentlemen, that's what's left today and, in particular, the Socialist Party. I was amazed, after knowing what was going on in Sobrerato, of his intervention, Mrs. Vilán. I hallucinated. I mean, there's a concierge who owns the company that makes these deposits, with the support of the mayor, without the municipal licenses, and you come here to talk about that if the waste legislation, that if I don't know that... No, Your Honor, here was what happened was that a person acted, surely, by committing an irregularity, or perhaps a crime, of his party, and you spoke here about the museums, of what he wanted, but he did not ask any exigencies, no responsibility to this gentleman. Look, this summer we know, thanks to the media, that the Galician board was investigating and analyzing mud deposits on Sobrado's farms and mountains, and thanks to this publication and later to the information provided by the director general, we know that we are facing an alarm and a concern that Sobrado's neighborhood had for these deposits and that Junta acted from the very first moment she had knowledge of these events. Besides, I want to remind you that your initiative is on September 10, and the press releases are on the 28th, but the first clues that the Galician Union had were on August 1st, and from the very first moment, the result of an anonymous communication that the Board had to investigate to find out a little more information was, acted agilely, fast, and collected all the information needed for a thorough investigation to allow it to reach the bottom of the problem. They used all the means within the reach of the Board: Environmental Inspection, Autonomous Police, Emergency Agency of Galicia, Galician Environment Laboratory, Plantatological Agrarian Laboratory... with which, ladies and gentlemen, the Board acted with all the means at its disposal, impartially and strictly methodologically and technically. That said, Mr. Rivas, I share your concern with 100 percent. And of course we give you the importance you have for what you said, the importance you have for what the media published, the importance you have for the denunciation that was made before the Galician Union, and, of course, the importance you have for the Galician Union to have to do all that mobilization of means for analysis, to investigate what is happening there and to know who made those deposits. It is not to be received that he is a conceler of the Socialist Party who is making these deposits, of course not; a conceler of the Socialist Party who has the support of the mayor of Sobrado, but who has no license to make those deposits. I mean, it's just, on top of it, it's already worrying. On the one hand, you have the support of the mayor, you have no license to make these deposits and not the censorship of the Socialist Party, which seems to agree completely and, moreover, that you want to divert attention. The mayor knew everything we're talking about here today, and he's an accomplice. The concierge, moreover, and the mayor, as you well pointed out, acted in a dark manner, tried to conceal what they had done, threatened even those people who were going to make the complaints or who were making the allegations, the landholders, the mountain owners, who often understood themselves after they had made the deposits. You were talking about what they paid them, but many times, so we know and the meetings we had with the owners, they found out after they made those deposits. That's how they act, Mrs. Vilán, your mayor and your concierge. And you should have talked more about that completely intimidating and completely irregular conduct of your partymates. [[Applause]] But you're an accomplice, you and the Socialist Party are accomplices to keeping these two people there, and instead of asking for the resignation of your concierge and mayor, who are filling the Soberado with unlicensed deposits, because you present here an amendment to intoxicate, to entangle, and you come here talking about waste legislation. Your Honor, there are those responsible, with names and surnames, who are part of your party, and they're also in charge, they're in institutions for your party. Don't come here to confuse yourself. Don't justify it, don't cover it, don't be an accomplice, leave the cowardice, and instead of being palm trees, ask for your resignation, even if it's your party. [[Applause]] Mr. Rivas, to finish...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u141	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u142	...and finally, we have no interest in covering up any of the Socialist Party's concierge, we want him to come to the end, to investigate himself and the responsible for these spills, if there is a crime, to pay him; to pay him. We are not going to participate in this poisoning campaign, in this cover-up that is being done by the Socialist Party, Mr Rivas, so we will support your initiative, so that you know who is responsible and that all responsibilities are purged.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u143	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. "I'm surprised, my dog has eaten a fly." Thank you very much. We are grateful to all the groups that support the initiative. I want to tell Mrs Vilán that what she proposes to amend us is even practically in the agreement we have. Yes, it's completely. With regard to "to deal swiftly...", I'd really like him not to deal with that speed that we're used to, that covers everything, as the rafts and stitches were covered. We have to find out who's responsible here. Look, I had something very nice here, I mean, a press release that got out quickly. Yes, a press release by the Sobrado People's Party that echoes the concern, etc., etc. And we're very glad, but I want to tell you that the mayor was from the People's Party when these rafts were already working and scattered... and not only that, but another series of smoking fertilizers, which theoretically had to be inert and stored in large explanates. So here's everyone's guilt. Of course it is, which is from the Socialist Party, the concierge; of course, it is from the Socialist Party, but it acts in the name of a company, and who is to pursue the lead is to the company. Just like you have to chase the lead on the one carrying Dairylac serum tanks, with caustic soda, which are deposited directly in the rafts, in the name of that company I referred to earlier. I mean, here for me and BNG the problem with this story is that we have to give you a review of that which is being sold and thrown down agricultural soils as fertilizers and that often are not. I mean, we have to follow his lead. Look, it wouldn't come to us in the morning to see all the legislation that's about what to do with these muds, all the prudence that the law marks and doesn't make. There's no traceability of all these muds, nothing is done, absolutely nothing, and that's the big problem. Look, this company collects residues from ADL Biopharma, from León -- formerly called Lion Antibiotics -- it removes washed water as if they were sewage sludges, and that becomes part of fertilizers. That company theoretically processes 200,000 tons a year, and it has no facilities for either processing or storage. We have to act, and the Environmental Council, instead of sitting down, has to walk, it has to move, it has to inspect and it has to make legal compliance; that legality that passes through our noses so much, but it doesn't. It's not done! The environment is the great pendant matter of this country, and as long as we don't notice it, we're losers! Soprado's is a drop, just a drop.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u145	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Joint Left Group, at the initiative of Da Luca Chao Pérez and Da María de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the economic cost of starting school for families
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u146	There are amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, the Joint Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u147	To formulate the non-law proposition has the floor to Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u148	Thank you, President. Today we bring to this House a non-legislative proposal that we understand as fundamental because it is directed at the centre of our proposal on education, i.e. equality of opportunity and educational equity. There's a clear relationship between education and equality, and we can also say it differently, there's a too clear relationship between equality and poverty. The poorest social groups are those who have received the least education and those who have the most difficulty in accessing it and its benefits. But they're not the only ones, because it happens with any other difference that causes marginalization, such as race, gender, culture, religion or physical or intellectual attitudes. For some reason or others, although the right to receive universal education is universal, there are multiple differences and inequalities that make it difficult or impossible to exercise it. When it comes to equal educational opportunities, you're talking about having things available or taking steps to prevent this from happening. In this sense, the question is clear: when can we talk about equal opportunities in education? We can consider that there are equal opportunities when all people have the same educational possibilities. In this sense, you can speak of four types of equality that are essential and that the Administration must control: access, survival, results and educational consequences. I mean, there's equal opportunities when all people have the same chances of entering the education system, staying in it, learning the same thing and getting the same benefits from learning. For example, if students and students in basic vocational training programmes mostly come from the less-favoured classes - we know that this is the case - or the results obtained in external evaluation tests are clearly different in private schools or in public schools, it seems that either the opportunities were the same or could not be taken advantage of in the same way. For us, the goal of equality in the education system is irrevocable, it's a matter in which resources cannot be spared. Equality and also equity, a concept that when we apply to education, according to UNESCO, implies educating according to individual differences and needs, without the economic, demographic, geographic, ethical or gender conditions of learning being prevented. And, look, if there's a time when educational inequalities are particularly serious, it's at the beginning of the course. In a truly universal and free education system, as established by Organic Law 2/2006, of 3 May, article 4, basic education is compulsory and free for all people, as the Constitution also collects. If this were really so, starting the course shouldn't be a matter of concern to families, however, cuts in school scholarships, as well as co-workers in educational services such as the dining room or textbooks make an important economic disbursement for many families. It's the books, it's the school material, the uniforms, the extra-school activities, a lot of expenses that have to deal with families and that make bills multiply and cause major problems. We do not say so, the Foesa Foundation's own Report on Intergenerational Transmission of Poverty explains that a clear trend has been observed to reduce aid and scholarships related to studies, textbooks and dining services for low-income children and children in families. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a very worrying situation that we have been alerting for a long time. They will remember that about a year ago, in a motion that we recorded about the start of the school course, we already explained the need for objective data to enable us to make advanced public policies. The Group of the People's Party voted against it for no reason. She said she had no information, and they say no because they know that the data could leave them in evidence. So, what you don't do when supposedly responsible administration, offering official data on the cost of starting school for families, forces you to go to other sources, and in this case we find data from secondary sources that indicate that last year at the middle of the start of school out of 800 euros per family; an invoice that you will agree with me that, in a country with very low wages, it is too high; 800 euros that you need to put in relation to the aid that enables the Government of Wales. DOG of 20 May, second article, on the allocation of books and aid accounts, paragraph 3, "The amount of aid to acquire school material for students enrolled in primary education and in ESO, with a family income of EUR 5,400 or less, shall be EUR 50". It's 50 euros for a family with an annual income of 5,400 euros. Can you really consider these aids useful for something? Ladies and gentlemen, giving a 50-euro aid to a family with an income of misery seems to us an unacceptable alms, an insulting tale that clearly does not serve to guarantee universal right to education. It's a shame to talk about 50 euros, a shame in absolute terms and a shame, of course, in relative terms too, because we can compare ourselves to what autonomic governments are doing in the rest of the state. So, in Andalusia, there's help for school material that's more than twice as much as 105 euros. In Aragon, in primary, students and students can receive 160 euros, and in secondary school, 230. In Castela-La Mancha, aid varies according to income, from 90 euros — the lowest — to 240 euros. Or in Rioxa, for primary students, the scholarship goes from 100 to 175 euros, and for secondary students from 150 to 250 euros. And you defend 50 euros of help. Moreover, the former school counselor — when we talked about this matter — had come to the full that he didn't know if 50 euros were too much or too little for school material because he didn't know how much the families spent. Anyone would say he was a teacher's counselor; more, anyone would say he was a father and had children at school. It would be interesting to find out if the advisor didn't know either. Anyway, look, she might not know either. Nor do the Members of the People's Party who have children of school age know whether 50 euros are many or few. But it turns out that citizenship does know, and citizenship knows that 50 euros are ridiculous to address the highest bills of school material, the bills that need to be addressed every start of the course; impracticable in many cases. They spend one afternoon in a bookstore and find that 50 euros just come in to buy not even a school wallet, and everything else is missing. But, look, in our initiative we're not even defending a specific story; we're not saying that it's 100 or 200, what we're asking for is information, real data to be able to meet real needs, because we understand that this is how public policies are done, with clear data. What we ask for is so much that educational policies are not based on absolute arbitrariness but on objective knowledge of the reality that they should transform. We ask for true information and demand resources. However, the data are what they are, and if there is anything that defines the educational policy of the People's Party, it is the permanent treasure and privatization, the systematic application of the neoliberal doctrine of reducing the public. The popular government has been cutting down the investment in education for over a decade. Far is that investment of 4.62% of the GDP we had when Mr. Feijóo came to the presidency of the Government. Today we are in a 3.59% burden, which, we must insist, is a figure that leaves us only above Romania; a shame that, of course, has clear consequences. And no, it doesn't do any less, it gets less; there's less rights because rights cost money. And, therefore, only protection and guarantee are primarily due to a political decision. It's the administrations who decide which rights to protect and which degree of intensity to protect them. And the government of Feijóo long ago decided that public education was not his priority, made cuts over and over again with the excuse of the economic crisis and left the investment in education much below what we had a decade ago; that's right, the money for the private has been kept, and not just that, but it has increased. And that was totally in line with the increase in the educational expenditure of families; that is, while the educational administration reduced funds, the families, of course, had to pay more and more. So much so that families in the last decade, in the same period as Feijóo applied the scissors over and over again, had to increase 35.5% of their resources to educate their children. That is why, we insist, this is a relevant initiative. This rise gives reason to what we have come to denounce and gives reason to associations such as the ANPA Confederation of public school, which denounce that education is not only free, as established in the Constitution, but that every course that passes is more expensive for all families, to the point that for every 4 euros that makes the Administration the families have to put 1 because, if not, this system is totally unsustainable. We've got to turn him around. To speak of excellence rather than equal opportunities each time you have to defend an educational model is a purely ideological decision that has clear consequences. What's at the bottom of it is the neoliberal twist of educational policies, transforming educational scholarships, a fundamental tool against social injustice, into a kind of premium to excellence. It's a scandal! That's how your badge minister has done, who has ended up resting in Paris, and so they do it every time you have to get a summons ahead of you. For these reasons we present our non-law proposal in which we urge the Council of Galicia to: First, submit a report before the end of this year's course on the cost of every start of school — know, basic — for the Greek families. Second, advance in new educational materials, so they go beyond traditional books. New subjects that can't fall on families. It's not good for you to come up here and say, we're already with E-Dixgal. No, it doesn't, first, because E-Dixgal is having important business with certain publishers. But not just because of that, but because E-Dixgal makes $400 for families when the equipment is broken. This is a scandal. We brought the bill here, the Council decided to stop paying the arrangements...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u149	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u150	...and pass the bill to families. It's a scandal that we have to endure that the teams break up, and obviously they break up. And thirdly, I know the real cost of starting school, increasing the educational scholarships and aids of school material, so that its content does not rest on arbitrariness, but rather meets the actual needs of the student. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u152	For if, indeed, 50 euros are ridiculous for material, books, clothes... and year by year the only thing that comes to show this start of school is the precarious situation in which much of our country finds itself. Back in last year's school, the one in 2018, it was signaled in the media that it was the most serious in three years - it was said - It happens that the so-called "September Coast" was fueled by the rise in the prices of basic goods, above the rise in wages and income declared by the Greek families. These issues remain in force in 2019: they continue to increase energy and basic supplies costs and pressure on families. Indeed, there can be no equality without social equality. The class continues to be a conditioner in access to an equal education of conditions precisely on such issues as cost issues, the economic impact of starting school. There is no reliable data drawn up by institutional sources, so we agree that it is essential to have a report made by the Board itself on the costs of starting school costs and thus graduateing aid; it is a completely rational proposal. There's a saving website that did a study that pointed out that in this course every Galician family will see how the return to their children's and daughters' classes amounts to an average of 758 euros per person; that's 2.8% of the annual household expenditure. And I also pointed out that there was a question that affected the lack of fairness, because if the bill was raised, it was rising — as the proposal said — in the expense of the families attending public centers, but in the private centres it was reduced. We can also put this in the frame that we were commenting on yesterday about how the public teacher in our country suffered a reduction, while the concertary didn't. So, what we're talking about is from an element that dramatically does it is to translate that precariousness into which our country is. Despite the triumphalism of data, we are in a situation in which GDP has grown above the income of the Greek households, there is an inequality at this post-crisis stage. And we added a question, and is that childhood and adolescence were of the social segments most affected by the crisis in our country. Exclusion in childhood has reached unprecedented levels in our democracy. According to the European Network Report against Poverty 2016, the demographic group of youth reached 37.8% of the risk of poverty and exclusion, and that of children, 27.6%; thus increased 7.3 points. This has been gradually reducing in recent years, but according to the AROPE rate, we would be at 28.8% risk of child poverty; more than that, there has been a study of child poverty in our country in 2014 that we strongly ask that it be published in its entirety and that it be updated and not done yet. So it happens that families — and these are data that are there, both in the IGE and in other sources — with minors or dependent youth have a higher level of poverty than those that are not in this situation. I mean, we're constantly finding that this precariousness increases in families that have less responsibility and that have to start, precisely, this school course. In addition, as has already been said, there was a stagnation of wages, but the costs that the Greek families had to pay for basic services increased by 30%, according to the 2018 Family Budget Survey. And this increase was also given in the disbursement that families have to make to get access to education -- and I know that it's not exactly right, families have equal access to education, but I mean access to education on equal terms -- The amendments that we propose give rise to the need to strengthen the public service, to completely recover the direct management of school dining rooms. It's an essential service that got worse in those business-managed dining rooms. It's an educational, health education service, which has an essential nutritional component, and a service that results in that equity. Also in a public offer of extra-school activities, because they often become inaccessible activities on economic issues. The total gratuity of teaching from 0 to 3 is an essential element of equity in society; not only because it allows global access to all citizens who need this service, but also because it improves, then, the conditions of avoiding school failure. It's a measure that guarantees equality of conditions between people of a different social class. Then we also asked to update this study on child poverty. It is unacceptable that we have been asking for three years to publish and update the report, which we can only partially know. And we also asked for a specific strategy to further reduce the dropout rate in the case of the Gypsies. In short, we support the initiative, which is very close.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u153	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u154	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. We agree from the BNG with the bottom of the initiative, with the issue already discussed here earlier on cost, the enormous economic effort required of the working families of our country each time a school course begins. It was about the general cost, from that average that different sources set for the costs of working families when facing this start-up. And they are not official sources of the Galician Union, they depend, of course, on the city or town or many educational centres we are talking about, but we can quantify — as we say — on an average/cost of about 200 euros only in books for those working families in this country who have, for example, primary students' children or children, and who can reach 300 euros - only in books, I insist - the cost for that student who is studying compulsory secondary education. Indeed, we share that effort — a huge economic effort for many families — is supposed to deprive ourselves of many other things. But it is also good — I think — to remember in this House that this has not always been so, that in this country families have not always had to pay these real barbarities so that their daughters and their children could go to public education in our country. And that's where we focus -- and I think there's another amendment in this sense too -- the amendment we tabled from BNG, and it's about returning to that public education that really guarantees equity and social justice in their access to our country's population as a whole, because what distributes wealth is taxes. There you have to pay more than you have, and not what is being done right now in the public education system of this country, that there are many working families who have incomes that make them cover the month with many difficulties and that they have no kind of help to cope -- I insist -- enormous expenses like starting the course every year. And that's about to recover what existed here until 2010, which was a universal schoolbook loan system for the whole of our country's student. A measure — I insist — that allowed access to the whole of our country's students in equity and that the People's Party decided to suppress by pure political sectarianism, by pure political sectarianism!, like so many other things. [[Applause]] And the political sectarianism of the People's Party in this country is very expensive, but more expensive still are the working families of this country, who had to see how that universal lending system was suppressed at the worst moment, besides, for them, as it was at the doors -- if we weren't already inside -- of that terrible economic crisis that still many working families in this country haven't come out. [[Applause]] That universal loan system is not only fairer, but it is more efficient than that invention that brought the People's Party from 2010 onwards and that by 2012 it had more than ever spent — or investment, as it said in a more appropriate way — than had that universal loan. In 2012, that solidarity aid that the People's Party was talking about exceeded 22% of the investment that was made in the universal loan of textbooks. More spending to attend to less students, because there were lots of families in our country who didn't have access to those aids. I insist that the sectarianism of the People's Party is very expensive to this country and to these families. So what we're defending in the amendment is that you recover that universal loan from textbooks, indeed, by increasing also the content of non-book material aids, that is, all that has to do with the needs of any student in our country to face an academic course. It must be remembered that in this country things have not always been the same as they are now and that what we have is to regain the rights that have taken us back from the year 2009 these people. [[Mr. Rodil Fernández pointed a part of the Chamber with her finger.]] Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. I believe that this initiative presented by the Joint Left Group will receive a choral response from the opposition, which is Mr Vega's favorite phrase, and I honestly believe that, given that we act in a choral manner, we could perhaps call for an amendment to the House's Rules of Procedure — I know that it will not give us time — to sing together instead of presenting initiatives and explaining them. We've already completed the chorus in a round way. Mrs. Chao, I think your initiative is relevant and we're going to support it. Of course, reporting on the cost of taking up the Greek families at all educational levels for the acquisition of textbooks and school materials is clearly necessary and frankly relevant. But it seems to me that taking into account the little evaluative culture that the People's Party has, little success will have this reasonable request. That progress on new educational materials also seems relevant, as you said perfectly. It's not just E-Dixgal, although I suppose we'll be sold the bonuses of that hybrid system between the textbook and the computer, but it seems to have some other problem within its implementation in the schools of this autonomous community. With regard to the third point of its non-law proposal -- point that we amend in the same line basically as the Galego Nationalist Block -- we believe that the relevant point is the recovery of the universal program of free textbooks, a program that where the PP does not govern at most absolute or is either already implemented or is either in progressive implementation, because -- I said yesterday -- it does not belong to you in the case of the People's Party to consolidate a necessary right to achieve greater equity in the education system -- which seems to be that we have the most equitable educational system in the whole state and in the whole universe -- I think it is important that we support our statements, as Mrs. Rodil has already done in part, because Mr. Bará quoted Aute yesterday, today I will say - "data, data, data; more data, please." And the data is powerful, the data is indisputable because, besides, when you use sources of all solvency, as can be the annual orders of help in the acquisition of textbooks or, at the moment, of free school, you find things as picturesque as the following: In the 2008-2009 course, the last course in which there was a universal textbook free program in this autonomous community, for both primary and secondary education, the cost of the full program was EUR 23,600,000. In 2012-2013, three post-Feijóo courses, we found that the school material acquisition aid program cost €20,600,000; i.e. €3 million less, and it covered 19% of the student. Hallucinant! In the 2013-2014 course it cost €21,200,000 and gave attention to 17% of the students. And, of course, as some relevant member of the People's Party of the past said in this House: "They're all but from cars they're separated." So they realized that they were investing practically the same amount of money and that they were serving the fifth part of the student, in the best of cases. That's the reality of the figures. They thus invent that socially consensual figure of the free solidarity of textbooks, free solidarity that only the past course and the previous one cost 15 million euros; an aid order of 7,500,000 euros and another of 6,700,000 euros; rounding up, 15 million euros. And how many students are serving? If we go to the publication, which I've already referred to yesterday, of the Data Education Council and figures of this school course, we find ourselves at the point that they're partially giving you help just over 60%. But, look! like you, Mrs. Chao, said perfectly, these tips aren't even complete because they're for 6 books or 4 books. If it's 6 in the primary case, it's going to cover 66% of the texts that students have to buy, and it's going to cover 44% if they're for 4 books. And they cover 60% in high school, at best, and 40% in the worst. This is the sad reality of politics that in the matter of textbooks is systematically doing the People's Party and, yes, it must be acknowledged that it is inaccessible to discouragement because by many initiatives that we present and by many of the data that we put on the table, I have not seen them as least likely to begin at least an analysis of whether it is relevant or not relevant to modify this policy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u157	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u158	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u159	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u160	Thank you, President. Good morning. Mrs. Chao, you bring here today a proposal based on a concept that repeats systematically every time you go up this gallery, such as clippings: clippings, clippings and more, following the song. You're talking about clippings, but it really doesn't come up with any data, and the data that either approaches or isn't accurate or incomplete, somewhat similar to what Mrs. Verao does, which reads an article from a website called ahorrokelista.es, and, of course, mixes the return to school with the annual spending on education. So, of course, they base their proposal on journalistic data and they say you just have to use secondary sources because there's nothing else. Yeah, look, there's, there's, there's, there's, uh, INE data. You just go to the INE page and check out: Family Budget Survey, 2018 -- it seems a lie that Mr. Álvarez picks up and goes on with that same speech that you have, too, because I'm sure Mr. Álvarez knows perfectly this page of the INE -- If we go to the INE, we find that on July 30, 2019, you published the result of the 2018 Family Budget Survey, a survey that reflects the average household cost in a basket of fifteen concepts - Mr. Lago will surely be able to explain it perfectly - to you. And among those concepts is education. In education, according to the survey, each home had an average expenditure of 461 euros, which meant an annual rate of change of 11.2%. It was the most elevated concept from 2017 to 2018. We don't deny the data, but we also have to analyze them. What do you think, Mr. Lago? And just in spite of this rise, it's the concept that less contributes to the household expenditure basket, only 1.5% of the total household expenditure, the lowest percentage, much lower than restaurants and hotels, which are in 9.9%. Maybe we're a society where we have to look at some of the issues where we spend the money. The average household expenditure in Galicia is 317.65 euros. The survey also gives us half a person's expense. In Spain this expenditure is EUR 185.35 and in Galicia EUR 129.58, which places us in the tenth place. INE also has a more specific survey of household spending in education. The last one is from the 2011-2012 course, which I'm not going to extend because it would be very long to count, but I recommend it because it gives an analysis and very interesting data, because it differs all levels and also between the public, the concert and the private. By the way, Galicia is the fourth community that least invests in concerts and grants in concerted education, often because you repeat here all the opposite. I'm going to make a reference to the expenditure components and I'm going to read it in Spanish, because it's like in the IGE: "The main goods and services related to regulated studies are teaching classes, teaching classes, voluntary complementary lessons, extra-school activities, complementary services of dining, transportation, residence, child care services outside the schedule, complementary activities, excursions, as well as school equipment...", and blah, blah, blah... In fact, many of the concepts that are added to the calculation of education expenses, and I suppose you won't be suggesting that Education --the Council -- opens guidelines for school uniforms, for English, piano or football classes. Mrs Vázquez Verao does propose that the Galician Council grant classes of non-school English. Of course, we subsidize English classes, but we are asking to repeal the decree of plurilingualism. Be consistent! [[Applause]] Mrs. Chao, I know exactly what they give you 50 euros in school material. I know perfectly well because I have two children, one college student and the other at school. And thanks to this year's entry into E-Dixgal, school expenses in my home course -- not average annual expenditure, but course start -- were 50 euros, indeed, because I systematically refuse to buy a backpack every school course, because I refuse to systematically change all the colors, because I systematically refuse to be buying things and things in that consumer society that you criticize. [[Murmurs.]] That's how it is. In fact, Galicia is the most equitable system in Spain, and more fairness means that the socio-economic situation of the student affects less in its results. This is true of the public education policies of the People's Party, because I have to remind them of the free transport of school, which benefits 88,000 children, and school dining, where 74.5% of students pay nothing or only pay one euro a day 7.2%. I mean, most of the students who go to school eaters are almost free. I will not insist again on what you repeat here again and again: the solidarity of the Bipartite textbooks was a fiasco, it was a fiasco, indeed... No, no, no... the Bipartite system for universal gratuity was a fiasco, and you know it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And besides, it wasn't free, either, because the families had to pay, apart from the management that assumed that service. Don't insist on it because they won't have much more reason.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u161	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u162	There's actually a lot more than books in the Greek system, Mrs. Chao, because there's an innovative and supplier educational model, putting not only the theme of computers, but other tools like program contracts, the Project Plan, the LIA Plan of school libraries and a lot more. There are initiatives within the digital strategy, such as the Maker Spaces, the science clubs, that perform that function of trying to introduce anxiety into the student by the so-called STEM disciplines from a gender perspective to try to break down the gender gap that occurs in these subjects. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, if you ever want to speak seriously about the education and teaching of this country, I would ask them to put aside that demagogic speech that they have every time they get up here in this gallery, because indeed, Mrs. Rodil, there were no better times. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u163	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio Vilasánchez. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u164	First of all, I would like to thank the opposition groups for their support for our initiative. As far as amendments are concerned, I want to say that we are going to accept the amendment of the Galego Nationalist Block, because we understand that it completes our proposal, in addition to fully matching initiatives that we have defended on numerous occasions. The universal loan system is not only more secure and fairer, but also, as was said here, more efficient. And this even says the valet: the People's Party spends more and guarantees less rights. As far as the other two amendments are concerned, the Socialist Group is not going to accept them because we understand that what refers to the loan system is covered by the amendment of the nationalist group, and reduces the scope of our request by eliminating the reference to the balance of aid with real expenditure. With regard to the amendment of the Joint Group, we are not going to accept it because we understand that it mixes a lot of things that might be interesting, that we would support another type of initiative, but that they completely distort the objective of our proposal. And from the People's Group, I want to regret that of all time, the lack of respect and the myopic superiority of those who never have a chance to rectify. You say no to the right to a truly free education, they say not to reverse the policies of wrong cuts, they say they do not know the real cost of starting the course for the Greek families, they say they do not see what happens claiming that what is not seen does not exist; but there is, ladies and gentlemen, there is. There are families who can't take on the start of the course, who have to go to non-governmental associations to be able to pay the books, to be able to pay the books, to be able to buy the wallets. This happens, and if you don't see it, you'll get a little more out of the house, because you'll see what happens. Data — if I gave it to him. Families spend 35.5% more than before you ruled. Secondly, you cut the teaching budget in 484 million euros. They're pretty powerful data, but you come here talking about a survey that was done eight years ago. But, Mrs. Antonio, don't you know how much the cost of living has increased in eight years? Please be a little strict. Above all, we have to regret the fact that the People's Party will continue to consolidate in our educational system a policy of scholarships and aids to study which compromises equal opportunities, completely distorting the end and object of aid, which is only to remove the social or economic obstacles that can exclude the citizenship of teaching and thus prevent everyone's right to education. It is urgent and can and must be done. We're very pleased that 50 euros are coming from you to deal with the start of the school course. I should comment with the ANPA before I come back here and say a barbarity of this kind, to see that they answer you, or to suggest that the working working families in this country can't go from hotels. Look, Mrs. Antonio, you'd be very surprised: we're going to continue to defend all rights to all people, all rights to all people. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u165	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Joint Left Group, at the initiative of da Luca Chao Pérez and da Paula Quinteiro Araújo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to ensure naval activity and jobs at the Vulcan shipyard, as well as to address a joint policy for the sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u166	To formulate this non-law proposal, to which no amendments have been tabled, you have the floor of Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u167	Thank you, President. Just two weeks ago, last September 25th — they can remember all — in the debate of the state of the nation, Mr Feijóo boasted that the German naval sector was going through a wonderful moment, which literally recovered its leader and today has the second largest order portfolio throughout Europe, and attributed this enormous success to the decisive involvement of the Union. But in his speech he went from points completely to the current situation of the sector. He didn't mention Vulcan, Barreras, the auxiliary industry of Navantia, or the auxiliary industry in Vigo, which is going to the rear for the Barreras problems, and he was limited only to charging against the government of the state for the failure of the Navantia workload for the next two years. It's the usual: if you close Endesa, it's the central government's fault; if there's no workload in Navantia, it's the central government's fault. The answer of the German Government is always the same: leaving functions and the absolute absence of responsibilities; it does not go with them. For the Government of Feijóo only advertising and propaganda. He was dared, in fact, to boast a sweet moment without assigning a single moment to the workers of the ship, who are defending their jobs. The reality, as it usually happens, goes on the other hand and what seemed to be a sweet moment for the naval sector in Galicia seems to be becoming from the morning to the morning in a bitter moment, and quite bitter for the hundreds of families that depend on the jobs that are at stake on some of the most quiet shipyards in this country. First it was Vulcan, who now seeks the termination of the last 69 remaining contracts, the last 69 direct jobs that remained at the factory, but that full performance gave more than a thousand people; 69 people whom the German Government gave up on their luck after failing to fulfill the promise of looking for an investor who had taken charge of the yard. For years, Vulcan has experienced major difficulties, without the German Government being able to put real solutions on the table; quite the contrary. Finally Vulcan filed the claim of liquidation, an announcement made after the delivery of the last ship, after several months of delay on the date initially fixed, which also involved months for unpaid workers. The situation of weakness and uncertainty, therefore, was not new. In fact, the staff board had been subject to temporary employment regulation records for almost five and a half years, due to the very low workload, and there were months in which, as I said, they were not charged. In this way, the German Government knew perfectly what the situation in Vulcan was. So much so that Igape's manager, Juan Cividanes, told them about ten months ago that they had not signed an ERE, but that they had moved to a controlled liquidation of the company, which would allow a new investor to take charge of the industry, an investor that the German government itself was committed to looking for. But ten months later, nothing, absolutely nothing. The investor did not appear, it was said that nothing, that the investor in whom he thought was not going for a good time — perhaps it was Barreras — disappeared and abandoned the 69 workers who were currently in the company to their fate. The government retreats and decides to drop the yard without doing anything at all. We must point out that the final closure of Vulcan, which until recently was the country's second largest shipyard, is a severe blow to the Greek naval sector, a strategic sector of our economy, which would lose a significant productive capacity, without this happening. On this, in addition, you suspect possible speculative interests in the lands that today occupy the yard. First -- I said -- Vulcan; then, auxiliary companies that work for Barreras; today we see that they have already assumed eight hundred, eight hundred lost jobs, that they go bankrupt because they are unable to cope with the defaults, and now another chapter for Barreras, the state's largest private yard, one of those who had the greatest burden of work and who is in a critical situation — and we hope that the situation will not worsen further. Barriers, part of that great propaganda announcement that Mr. Feijóo had starred in Pemex's hand and ended precisely in that, in an ad. False promises and still on shadows of corruption. We were in the campaign and we know, of course, that the naval sector is very important to Feijó when it comes to picking up a few votes. If that's why we have to lie in prime time on public television, because it's done and there's absolutely nothing going on here. But, of course, that's what happens with lies: they have very short legs, and those ads are gone. Only two of the ships promised back arrived. Nor has the outer port of the Coruña arrived. It was all smoke and propaganda. I mean, in just a few months, two of Galicia's main shipyards are at the edge of the precipice, and that's what we're apparently going through for a sweet moment in the shipbuilding. What's going on in the Welsh naval sector? Because it can't be that the fall of two of the country's main shipyards rests only on wrong management decisions, as Mr Feijóo intended today. Here, neither the wrong decisions nor the Government of Sanchez. Here's something else, there's responsibility in the Feijóo Government, there's responsibility in the Industry Council, there's responsibility in Mr. Count, and, above all, there's incompetence, absolute incompetence, because the fall of companies in the navy has to lead it into a global process of industrial crisis that is ruining the employment and the future of this country; 22,500 industrial jobs destroyed in a decade, ladies and gentlemen, 22,500 jobs destroyed in the Galician industry, which are one in every three of those that have been destroyed in the state as a whole. The cases and names of the industrial desert in which this country is converting the Feijóo government are multi-folded; we speak of Vulcano, we speak of Barreras. But we also have to talk about the whole dependent industry, we have to talk about Alcoa, Ferroatlantics, Isobars, Polygals, names proper to the drama that involves the closure of the industry and the loss of irrecoverable jobs in this country; proper names that show the total absence of fear in the Welsh industry. There's no one here on the wheel, let them do business, no matter what happens. The German Government is dropping a 100-year-old yard, as it leaves everything to fall, for there is not a single open industrial conflict in this country that the Council is able to solve. I encourage, if not, who will take the People's Group's word to look for one case, only one, in which the Industry Council had been able to solve one of the problems of industrial tissue right now. We have just mentioned the industrial downturn in Galicia, which we have come to denounce, which corroborates the general industrial production index, which accumulates another month more than falls, which causes us to have 6.2% fall in the last year. On the contrary, the average in the state as a whole — it cannot soon be blamed all of the State Government — increased by 0.4% in the period. What responsibility does the Council of Galicia have? The data are raw and the Government of Greece is fortunately leaving all workers in the naval sector, a sector that, as I said, is strategic for the Greek economy, generates more than 10,000 direct industrial jobs, another twenty-five thousand indirect, about two billion euros a year of invoicing, which accounts for about 3.3% of the European GDP. A sector of great strategic importance for Galicia. This is also what this Agenda 4.0 of which the Government boasts, but, of course, the question is addressed to the workers of the naval sector themselves: what does it mean for the Government of Galicia to be part of a strategic sector? What does it mean to be part of a strategic sector if you ignore your problems? How is it possible in that supposedly fantastic document of Industry 4.0 only appears once the naval concept to say, is it a strategic sector? All right, a graph where you put: strategic sector, one of them the naval; we agree, but absolutely nothing else. A hundred pages where no single reference is made to the naval sector, no data, no proposal, absolutely no answer. Is this what is meant by a strategic sector: totally ignoring it? Look, it's true that if we compare the situation of this moment to the worst moments of the crisis, the naval sector has more workload than a few years ago, but we can't forget that at a time of growing global demand the deliveries of the Greek shipyards in 2018 were just one fourth of the ones that had been in place in 2007. And there is more: sectoral reports tell us that international prospects for international demand are positive; that is, if objective conditions are favourable, it is not understood — and it is even more reprehensible — that the Council of Galicia is doing absolutely nothing to prevent the loss of employment and the productive capacity of shipbuilding in Galicia, which, as I say, are soon irreparable. The sector has long been demanding policy decisions in support of a strategic sector that must be considered and treated as such, not simply saying it is, not doing anything at all. And that's nothing more than what we demand in our initiative. Because the problems of the sector are not only being solved by charging against the government of the state as a whole, they assume and take responsibility. That is why we propose, firstly, to actively seek out an investor who guarantees naval activity and jobs in the yard. They're too late. May the People's Party be the one who, in his turn speaking, explains what he has done during this time and how it is possible, despite deriving important resources from the consultant KPMG for this purpose, that never, ever, ever be able to find those supposed investors. And secondly, to assume its responsibility, by constituting, urgently, the sectoral table of the naval — on shipyards, the auxiliary industry and the trade unions — to address a joint policy in the sector. That's what they demand; just listen and take steps forward. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u168	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u169	Thank you. The situation is what it is and from En Marea we believe that the solution for Vulcan at this point cannot come by particular actions on this yard. He would have to come for a strategic performance throughout the sector, in line with not losing productive capacity in the naval, which could not be recovered if Vulcan lands were engaged in another activity. So let's talk about concrete and feasible things. First of all, do all the necessary actions by the Council of Galicia and the Government of the State so that the uses of land cannot be changed. I'm going to talk very little, but let's do it. First step, that we can't change the use of land, that's fundamental. All indicators indicate that the naval industry, as Luca Chao has already pointed out, in Galicia cannot lose productive capacity, because all expectations are very important. They are growing all the shipyards, especially Europeans, in specialized constructions, cruises, off-shore and other kinds of high-value ships added, specialized ships, because, well, in the great construction, let's say, of Bulk carriers or oil tankers there would certainly not have much to do and better discard that alternative. But Galicia cannot lose that productive capacity because of lack of control and planning, also because of the incompetence of agencies that count on the support of the Galician Union, without the necessary controls. Does it really not have the Galicia Union, the Industry Council, any departments that follow up on the activities of the industrial sectors of Galicia? That every day we have to see on the front pages of the newspapers surprise after surprise? —and it seems that the People's Party and the Government are surprised. — Yesterday Mr. Tellado said: is that the bridge is a problem for 2045, how are we going to think about it now? Well, they have little information in their Council. Indeed, the Industry Council did not, in time, detect the fearsome offer for the contracts of the Ritz-Carlton cruises — since it was very feared, was it 40% below the cost—? Yesterday, looking at the web, I saw that Fincantieri, other of the bidders, had warned you two years ago. Doesn't the Industry Council have any departments that can predict these kinds of situations that then lead to what they do? No, the Galician Union totally relied on its man at Barreras, with so many pictures and hugs Mr. Feijóo made. As I would say here, Mr. Feijóo when we talk to him about this, they will tell us the same as Mrs. Esperanza Aguirre: this is only a problem of neglect in watching; i.e., they have a problem of neglect in watching; because we have to watch a little more. And, now, that irresponsibility to pay who? Well, as always, the workers of the shipyards and auxiliary companies, the ones that actually build the boats, because the ships, these third-generation shipyard ships that they call, the ones that actually build them are the auxiliary companies, and they need to be protected on a priority basis. That's another fundamental element. Because if you don't protect the auxiliary industry and you hit another 30 million-euro stick, like what you've already done in the previous Barriers contest, the Greek industry could disappear. That's why we have to warn ourselves that in all the actions of the Galician Union, we have to prioritize the guarantees of collection of assistants. That's defending most naval workers. And where can the solutions come from? —and we are already proposing solutions again; I know that Mr Tellado will say they are more occurrences.) Well, we urge the Galician Union to put in place a project to create a large ship repair base, as all the auxiliaries have proposed, which could be installed in Vulcan and Metalships. It's the big pending matter of the private naval sector in Galicia, it's one of their greatest frustrations, because of the volume of business lost in this decade, that they keep claiming it. It could be a project of enormous success. There's a huge repair business all over the world, now is the time to reload the load and push once and for all the creation of this naval repair center, a mattress essential and necessary for this suffered sector that allows to continue working when the constructive activity is afrox. They have already seen three concrete proposals: not to defuse the land, to strongly support the payment guarantees of the assistants and to put in place the creation of a ship repair centre. See if the People's Party has other non-occasional ones, as they were talking about them. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u170	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Parliamentary Group Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u171	It doesn't offend anyone, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u172	No, no...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u173	...he put the People's Party, PPO, it's the workers' party the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u174	We're not going in. We're not going in.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u175	...is the worker party now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u176	No, no, I want to make it clear today. I think I already explained the rules yesterday.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u177	They have to change their name: it's the Galician Workers' Party. I'll give you an idea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u178	Well, take it easy, everyone. Let's go to the topic of Vulcan, which is important, let's go there.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u179	He said, "Don't laugh, the story is sad." Indeed, it's sad, because we're in the centenary year of Vulcano, which was created in 1919, and when we should be having a party, it turns out that we're operating a funeral, especially the Government of Unity. The PP board says it has nothing to do with it, this is none of the Joints' business. The PP board says it has to do with assuming the naval recovery, which has been assumed these years when it comes to taking pictures. Well, photos better not talk, because they have a photo album that's better an album of nightmares, with all the photos they've made these years with Pemex's crime lords, with Pemex's criminal lords, Mrs. Prado del Río, Prado del Río, because there's another Prado there that's not from the River, which I don't tell you... well, at last. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, you forget that I'm the German Government, I'm not the agency, the management of all these criminals to look for handcuffs and contracts, I'm the Greek Government, they have to act like the German Government, they have to have an industrial policy for this country, and you turn out to be missing, they're missing; when there's problems, when there's a crisis, it doesn't have to do with you. And this, of course, cannot be, because hundreds of jobs are at stake in Barreras, in Vulcano, in auxiliary companies, and that's because they don't count all the jobs that have been left on the way and the auxiliary companies that have been on the way, with real human dramas, as we've seen here. And not to mention the hundreds of naval workers who had to emigrate, who are working in Asturias, who are working in Euskadi, Norway, Holland, because they didn't have a job here. And you were replaced by precarious jobs that are now occupying Lithuanian, Polish and Portuguese workers. Precautionary and temporality, this is the People's Party's Industry 4.0. No, this is called the low cost industry, which is also the one they're applying, by the way, to the automotive industry. They haven't read the director's statements from that factory they so much suspect. We have to adjust even more the costs, i.e. pay the working class those account settings. And you know what the unions say? That they have better working conditions in the Citroën auxiliary industry than in Citroën itself. And you still boast about Pemex's contracts, Pemex's fiasco, Pemex's corruption. What world do you live in, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? You assume a suicidal and adventurous business policy, looking for contracts lowering prices and leaving the auxiliaries at the stake. You act like evaluators with public money from disastrous business projects. And the same thing they did at Barreras is also worth Vulcano, where the board is responsible. Of course, the principal manager is the businessman, but you're in charge, because you cheated on the company committee shamefully, you told them that they worked without charge for five months and that they would then look for an investor. And do you know which investor you were looking for? It was Barreras. You were looking for Vulcan! Do you know what the problem is, Mrs. Egerique – I suppose you'll talk here later –? The problem is, you don't have industrial policy for Vigo, for southern Galicia, for all of Galicia. The problem is the ESC data for the percentage of industrial employment in northern Portugal and Galicia. Do you know what the difference is? Ten points in favour of northern Portugal, 28.2 compared to 17% industrial employment in Galicia. That's the problem, and you act by patching up patches, putting up patches of loans and landfills that we already know where they're going to stop: those irresponsible entrepreneurs, those corrupt businesses that you support. Of course, the BNG will support this initiative, but it seems to us a minimum initiative and we want to go further. We proposed more and we made initiatives precisely for that. We think there has to be a public intervention by the Galician Union to create a large corporate group in the naval sector in Galicia, in southern Galicia, in the district of Vigo, headed by Barreras and by Vulcano. We have to capitalize on public money all that money that goes on loans and on leases, put it at the service of a business project in this country in the Vigo River. Of course, we have to push that ship repair center, which was introduced in 2008 by the Government of Greece, which was supported by the whole sector and which you put in a drawer. That was a guarantee of stable work and a guarantee of stability and employment and the future...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u180	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u181	...to the Vigo River and the naval sector. You have to decide whether it's Vulcan's saviors or burial sites in the year of your centenary.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u182	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u183	Bring yours or go both ways. Is it going both ways?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u184	All right, it's okay. Then you take both of them, I'll give them to your partner.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u185	All right. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to express our vote in favour of this GNP brought by the Left Joint Group, which also goes in the same direction as other initiatives put forward by our parliamentary group. It should be remembered that the naval is a strategic sector for our economy, essentially in this case for the development of Vigo and its region, both at the shipbuilding level and in the auxiliary industry. On 17 September this year — a few days ago — in Commission 6th, the Socialists asked the Greek Government who thought about the current situation of Vulcan, which he had done so far and which he intended to do from now on, and if he had any news about the existence of a future investor. To answer this question, the Director General of the Igape, Mr. Cividanes, came and informed us that the Greek shipyards are at a sweet moment, in which there is an important workload, and that in the construction of Galicia ships it has the second largest portfolio in Europe, representing 50% of the total load of orders; a statement that was also made by the President of Galician Union in the debate of the state of autonomy. It is a fact that, at least, they are a bit contradictory to the future that is albiscized for this yard, for it seems that when it is 100 years old, everything seems to indicate that, precisely because of the lack of workload, it will have to be closed. The Galician Union, once again, in view of its lack of industrial planning and its actions, depending on how events go, for one day it says things and other days it manifests. So, in July of this year, the Industry Counsellor was protesting: if you can't finish this boat, Vulcan is in search of liquidation. The director of Igape at that time asked the company staff to collaborate to finish and deliver the ferry and that Junta would work at the same time to find an investor for the company. The staff met with their share of the deal, finished the ship, handed over the boat and they were still several months unpaid, but, once the ship was finished and handed over, the Galician Board informs them that there is no investor; that is, once again, the Board intercedes to favor the company, but the Board does not intervene in order to favor the workers. In July, in Vigo, the presidential adviser announces: "The autonomous government has done its part to save Vulcan, it will no longer intervene in Vulcan, we have done our part." He says, "We've always done everything possible and we're doing it to support the Welsh naval industry. The Greek administration is waiting to see what happens from now on to the yard and its template." The president of the port authority, Enrique López Veiga, of his political party, of the People's Party, also stated: "The port will always support what it decides to Join, since it understands that it must be the Union which marks the pattern on what can or cannot be done." Well, we arrived in September this year, and Vigo's delegate, Mrs. Corina Porro, says she expresses her commitment to accompany the workers and advocates for the company's continuity. And on 10 September, the Industry Councillor says that we have to look for viable solutions, but he calls for not looking for false expectations — by the way, something that is quite resonating with the statements made in this plenary yesterday, right here, by this Industry Adviser, referring to the continuity of the Endesa company. Well, we socialists would like to know what the position of the Union is. Did they do everything they had to do, advocate for continuity or do they care and wait with their arms crossed to see what's going on? We want to know what Joina does and what he thinks about this subject. Look, Mr. Cividanes, in that same commission, told us in an imperative way: "The commitment of the Galician Union to industrial fabric is beyond doubt. We have plans to measure cases where companies have difficulties, commitments more than demonstrated, seek economically and legally viable solutions, and we advocate the continuity of the yard." Yes, they don't make sure that, even if they get an investor, they can put back those 69 workers who are going to stay in the street and who are currently fired. Look, we socialists understand that, beyond the good words or verbal manifestations, more or less powerful, the obligation of a government is to demonstrate that commitment to facts.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u186	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u187	We would like to know that this commitment has been materialized, so from our group we will continue to focus, day and day too, on ensuring that the Galician Union fulfils its obligation and exercises its exclusive competence that grants it Article 30 of the Autonomy Statute, where it is said that they have exclusive competence over the promotion and planning of Galician economic activity. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u188	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u189	Thank you, President. Good morning. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, for being the last to speak, do you want a fact and a name? Joaquín Almunia, tax lease; that's a fact. Because you started your story in September this year, but you could start the story long before. Because when the grades were empty, all the empty steps, it was because of a socialist commissioner, who is Joaquín Almunia, who put the tax read in favour of Holland and against Galicia and against Spain. Please don't be cynical about this debate, don't be cynical about this debate! [[Applause]] I'm going to talk about Vulcan, Vulcan shipyard, because here we're talking about industry, industry, proposals to maintain the sector. We all know we're in a complicated situation, but I'm going to talk about Vulcan. And you challenged me, Mrs Chao, by saying, tell me something that I had done to the positive Group in favour of industry. Look, the merits are never of the Union, but the problems are always the fault of the Union. So when all the grades were empty and this Galician board was looking for investors, which is what you now want for Vulcan -- they ask an investor for Vulcan -- the merit wasn't for the Galician board; that's all. When there's problems, it's only because of the Galician Union. That's the cynicism and the political hypocrisy that you've always talked about the industry and the naval sector, which is very clear, and I think that in Vulcan too. If it is true, if it is true that yesterday's evening session was made clear by the Industry Adviser, and by the President of the Board today also at the Control Session, that commitment to the naval sector is indisputable and is beyond doubt, and in the specific case of Vulcan, in addition, the Greek Administration has demonstrated with facts, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo, the priority, which is to ensure by the industrial sector, but above all by employment. Look, in 2012 the Galician Union collaborated to contribute to the continuity of the yard, one more opportunity for the yard to continue; the jobs were guaranteed and continued to work. In 2017, Junta also guaranteed the construction of the ferry; I myself discussed in Commission 6th with Mr. Losada, who knows very well how this is going, and we all support the initiative. What the Board doesn't do — and it won't do this group — is give false expectations and give false speeches and believe it has the magic wand. Of course you can laugh at everything you want. [[Murmurs.]] We'll always face it. You can laugh at everything you want, because you laugh at the faces of the workers permanently every day. Look, we moved both the spokesperson of the People's Parliamentary Group and the councillor himself to the workers what the reality is, and the real situation is that the debt generated by the yard conditions the arrival of the new investor. That's very true. Today, a report in a Welsh media, in a German newspaper, speaks and interviews several workers, several generations of beams in the Teis district that worked at the Vulcan yard, and they talk about different directors, different ways of managing that yard. They speak very well of what reality was and how it was pointer — yes, it is true, centenary, Mr Bará — and how it built everything around a neighborhood as a reality. It's more than just a shipyard in the naval sector. It has an important roots in Vigo and of course it's an important problem. But the workers always speak from reality and knowing what the role of the Government was at a given time, what the role of the Union at a given time and what role they play right now. The position of the Board and this group is known, because it never changed; even before I was in this Parliament, these issues were discussed and never changed from the first moment, and so it was transferred to the works committee and to the Harbour Authority itself last Friday, when the workers came to Parliament. I tell you one thing: that the Greeks know, in addition, that the People's Party always faces and will always be realistic, and you believe that all the evils, as I said before, are the fault of the People's Party and when things go well this goes only, here the Union of Galicia has absolutely nothing to do with it. So the opposition is always so opportunistic; you're looking for any branch you can hold onto to blame Mr. Feijóo and the People's Party. Look, it's good to remember important data. The result of a government recant Feijóo, as I said before, when Almunia put the tax to read to the yards and they had no charge at all. That was one of the achievements, and also one of the jobs, which the Union has undertaken to maintain the naval sector with a great deal of quality. Today Galicia leads naval construction in Spain; that's true, that's true, because 30 of the 57 requests in the country are in Galicia. In 2018 in Galicia we have reached the best date of new contracts signed in the last ten years — they are data you know — and the Galician Union devotes EUR 50 million to consolidating that growth. Here we build ships, Mr. Casal, of quality, and chemists, and of the last generation, and besides, we don't question the quality of the employment of workers in the shipbuilding sector, which you spoke to other countries in which the quality of the employment is not such, and we don't question the quality of the ships. Now we have to try to get an investor in Vulcan, so that this can go ahead. I also tell you that this data is in recent years with governments of the People's Party, both in the state and in Galicia, and I insist that the position of the Galician Union at no time has changed. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Left Joint Group, present a bill that the Board knows well, because it takes time to do it; that is, it asks you to look for an investor. We would be willing to vote in favour of that first point if you accepted the point vote, if it could be a nuance with an amendment in voice that is "keep looking" rather than "searching". In any case, we would vote in favour of that first point. I see Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo who only laughs, laughs and laughs, the Socialist Party constantly laughing in the naval sector, permanently laughing, both in the city and here, always laughing in the naval sector! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u190	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u191	I'm done now, Mr. President. The arguments must be of weight, and not some statement from the Director of the Igape, which can be more fortunate or less. They, the workers, have all our support, and in the face of the posture of the cloths and t-shirts and Sanchez's ecological transition, in front of Sánchez's postureum, is Feijóo's commitment; clearly I say it from this rostrum. [[Murmurs.]] So carefully and strictly, for the interests of the sector, for the interests of the workers, for the interests of Teis, Vigo and Galicia, this parliamentary group will, of course, be supporting Vulcano. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u192	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u193	First of all, thank you for the support of the opposition groups in this matter. And, Mrs. Egerique, we really don't understand anything. In favor of looking for an investor who didn't look; now that time is up, please. Against summoning the naval table. I wish I had explained to us such a dis proposal for a vote. Against summoning the naval table and in favor of doing something they haven't done. Look, it's just not serious. I've said it before when we talk about Alcoa. You've been ruling this country for ten years, plus all the time they've ruled before, until four days ago, the Government of the State, and the data from the industrial crisis, the naval crisis, weighs on its government. And about that he didn't say anything at all. It's the results of not doing anything, not talking to the sector. They don't want to call the naval table, because they're not interested. What companies in the sector have to say to the People's Party doesn't matter at all. What the workers in the sector have to say to the People's Party doesn't matter at all. As bad as they're to get the industrial conflicts forward. In my speech I put on the table two fundamental issues, which had taken the debate at least seriously and would try to answer. First, that I had looked for a case where the Industry Council's performance had solved some recent conflict. No, don't tell me about that Pemex ad. Some recent business. There's no, they haven't done anything in any of the recent cases. Nothing for Vulcan, nothing for the Ferrol auxiliary industry, nothing for Poligal, nothing for Isobar, nothing for the Barriers auxiliary industry. Nothing. The result: closures and dismissals in the industry. Because you're the only economic policy they're defending is the tourist development of the seventies, that this, Your Honor, is exhausted, adapted to the year of Jacob, and seeing if that's how it works for us all. And secondly, they explained that it implies that a sector is recognized as strategic for the People's Party Council, which means for the Government, what concrete measures it implies. He didn't answer, because obviously the answer is the same: absolutely nothing. What we are asking for in our initiative is basic: it is to engage in the naval sector, that we are consistent with its consideration as a strategic sector, whenever it has the ability to generate jobs and wealth, quality employment, and not that cheap job they like so much. A sector that can't wait any longer. People are losing their jobs, Vulcan workers are already on the street, and you are dropping a 100-year-old shipyard, with all that it means for the naval sector of this country, especially for Vigo district, which is going to lose a very important productive unit. And look, Mrs. Egerique, you claim it was Feijó's merit to fill the steps. Well then, if you want me to be worthy of it, this will be your failure. They're consistent. What you can't pretend is that the merits are one and the failures have absolutely nothing to do with them, as if they didn't rule this country here. What it takes is a political will to maintain its activity, and that's not what the councilman is showing, who first announced to the press that the workers themselves were going to receive them on Friday, or the president of the board, who didn't even have five minutes to listen to their demands. I'm finished with the words of one of our own workers: once we've done all the effort the Board asked us to make, at the end of the day, the next day of filing the settlement, we see that the advisor doesn't give us a reply or calls, nor does he want to know anything about us; then we decided to take the steps forward that the Board of Galicia does not give. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u194	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela and da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the squares of resident internal physicians empowered by the Central Government for the year 2020
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u195	Amendments have been tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, by the People's Parliamentary Group and by the Group of the German Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u196	To formulate the motion not of law, Mr. Torrado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u197	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. Today, speaking of health, we are actually also going to talk about employment, about employment in health, which is probably the essential problem of our system. We have a problem in public health, and it's basically a problem of staff; a problem that is explained by the shortage of health professionals and also by the precariousness and exploitation to which professionals are subject today in our system, and that's what comes from difficulties in maintaining the quality of care, because they probably don't get to everything they want, and we don't have a system well equipped because of policies on fairly precarious labour issues, as we are seeing, in all the fields of labour policy of this government. In spite of that, we are also going to check how essential it is that guilt — as it is not! — is always someone else. We have a problem where solutions are not easy, but they could have some advanced things. Better working conditions would undoubtedly improve the possibility of having more professional, undoubtedly. Many of the professionals who are trained in Galicia and who are Germans end up outside, because here they are abused at work. We have some of the worst conditions in the state and we have some professionals who warn that with this situation, new talents in medicine will continue to march, new talents in nursing, new professionals in different health areas. There's an intentional disillusionment from the Board with respect to this area, and one of the spaces that doesn't completely solve, but it contributes a lot, is to form new specialists. Any wise government that admits that it has a staff problem -- and apparently, even if it's just an excuse, this government says -- should consider that more personal training makes a lot of sense. Even here could be something we all signed. What about medical training? Medical training, which in our country is considered of the best in the world — the MIR system we have is envyed by virtually all the health systems in the world — has some questions, and governments must bet on it. And this U.S. government in the MIR betting system, basically because it doesn't trust your staff problem to solve by forming more professional. The truth is that it's surprising: if we have a shortage of professionals and we can form more, we form more. It would also seem like an unappellable logic. It's not like that. He made it and Rajoy became necessary accomplices here to dismantle the system slowly, also through the MIR call. Let's see some data. The truth is we've seen lately offering a lot of data, and sometimes it doesn't seem like they want to listen, and I think it's important to offer some to counter also those models that are sometimes important to see how we deal with each, each party, or each model the health system. We are this year before the largest MIR call in history — it's an objective fact and it's also easy to understand — the greatest MIR call in history, which means that we have the possibility to train more doctors than ever, more doctors than ever. It must have been good news. We're going to make a little history -- not a lot of it -- we're going to make a history of these last few years of this Union government, of the Feijóo Government, to see what happened, to see these apparent Galician militants who are militants of the People's Party, because they are militants of the Party. Allow me to appreciate: the difference between the militants of the Socialist Party and those of the People's Party is that we are not ashamed to be militants of our party; that is a small difference. We understand that you do; that's why they hide the party, but calm, nothing happens about it. We're not ashamed. The last year of the Government of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, wicked Zapatero, MIR summons in Galicia: 363 squares that could be convened —363—. What happened to the arrival of Rajoy to the Government? He sent the commander: 308. Now there was talk of the need for more doctors. What did a right-wing government do? Lower the call of professionals. If we need more doctors, we're less professional; sublime intelligence. 308, on Rajoy's arrival. Do you know how many we called this year? 457; we went up 150% that call. Today there's 150% more call than the Rajoy Government had. Of course, it seems to be a clear bet on the model. If we think we need to train more doctors in the public, we call more squares; it seems reasonable. Someone will be able to explain two things to me. First, why did Rajoy drop the call? And secondly, where was President Feijóo, who so much claimed? Did I say something? Did I make glorious demonstrations? Did you head a march to Madrid to protest? Have the meetings of the Interterritorial Council been abandoned, as has the councilman done lately this past year? Did they protest energetically? How was this what they were doing? He did it, chiton, didn't he, I said? There he is! [[Applause]] What's more, I'm going to tell you: in the last ten years, do you know what the president has called the lowest number of MIR squares to Galicia? Rajoy; and Feijóo, chitón. Do you know which president called most MIR squares to Galicia? Pedro Sánchez; and, curiously—then it is coherent—, Feijóo, chitón, because I am not able to celebrate or at least acknowledge—that we will not ask him, do not worry. We have a special problem in family medicine, community family doctors. Do you know what has been called to Galicia for the last ten years? 88. Which president summoned them? Rajoy. What did Feijóo do? Has he moved enormously? Did you protest energetically? Chiton! Well, he must have a vocation of protest and militia from Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] Now, it's Galician militancy, but it depends, it depends on Galicia. We have a problem with pediatricians. Anyone could think that, although there is a general number of deficits across Spain, we could try to convene more squares to form pediatricians. Do you know what's happened in the last few years? They didn't ask for more, Galicia didn't ask for more pediatricians. And this is important, he hasn't asked for more pediatricians! As he no longer asked for medical facilities until the government of Pedro Sánchez arrived, which at that time was already a problem. Do you know how many there will be for this year? 27. Do you know how many there were before? 20. Do you know what percentage is that increase? Well, almost 33%, that's not a small thing. You know what they should do? Thank you, celebrate or at least act with responsibility. Look, the historical minimum of family doctors in one year — which Rajoy gave — were 88 to form in Galicia. Do you know what the difference is? 40 per year with respect to this last year, 40 per year! 40 doctors a year over the last five years — because they would already be trained today — are another 200 doctors. Are they solving the whole system problem? No, probably, but they solve a lot. You left without asking for those 200. But it's more: it's only that those who had been granted didn't ask all of them, and now I'm going to explain this, which is very curious. Because while the PP ruled, here Feijóo's PP said: we can't, we can't call anymore, there's no, we do our best. The government has changed: the blame lies with the Government of Madrid, we want extraordinary summons—illegally, by the way, they were asking for illegality; by the way, illegal thanks to Aznar's law, they were asking for illegality—we want more, we want a new summons. If, in the end — let me — I am convinced that the MPs of the People's Party of Galicia voted for Pedro Sánchez, because they can blame someone; you voted for Pedro Sánchez, the enemies of the inner party were killed, then they were unable to blame a businessman or the government for not knowing where. They voted for Pedro Sánchez so they could blame someone, because they were probably ashamed of the Rajoy government, but they weren't able, because you with the Rajoy government were systematically silent. What happened? That Pedro Sánchez has arrived and they already have to blame him. But the facts are the facts: the greatest MIR call in history. We've reached this point and we have the possibility to train more doctors than ever. What will the Galician Union do? So what we're bringing up is a proposal to say that, since we have the possibility to convene the largest number of squares we've ever had and we have a shortage of doctors, let's call them. It would seem normal. We therefore hope that the People's Party will vote in favour. It would be logical. If we have a shortage of doctors, if we can now form as many doctors as possible, we train them. It would be a pretty simple action, we're all capable of doing it. They're the possibilities now, use them. Because we want to convene medical facilities for the public system, right? We want to train doctors, don't we? I suppose now, if we were even asking for extraordinary summons — which were illegal — but if we are asking for extraordinary summons, it is because we want to form them; it would not only be an excuse. So, since we have that opportunity, here's our proposal. If we're now faced with some difficulty, then they're doing the paripé, but we hope not, because normal would be summoning all possible squares; and, if not, we expect the People's Party to explain why he doesn't want to convene all the squares he can as a family doctor. There's a background, and it's just that throughout the years of Feijóo they stopped calling 150 doctor squares; today we'd have 150 more primary doctors if it wasn't for a decision by Feijóo who didn't want to. So we hope that they will correct it from now on, that when they correct sometimes they will correct...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u198	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u199	...and they can summon as many as possible, because we have a state government that has called the greatest MIR in history.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u201	Make use of him and summon all the squares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u202	Thank you very much. We turn to the intervention of the amending groups. The Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor to Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u203	Well, it is clear that our health has a staff problem in all categories, in the specialized and primary, and that this happens, on the one hand, because of this staff deficit — hence the importance of the proper call for MIR squares — but also because of the job stability, which is where Junta must act. We believe that we should not be able to rule out the obvious for years. However, Junta closed its eyes, without making any use — as the proponent has already stated — that request for MIR squares, which it did, when there was a change of government in the state. In the case of family medicine, in primary care we are continually seeing that the lack of professionals is dramatic. We have seen this summer a tremendous situation, especially in the district of Salnes, of which we have a debate tomorrow in the Commission. And it was clear the need for time ago to plan this request for MIR squares and plan to form them in the country, and then to plan, again, that there are suitable jobs. On the contrary, during the years of the PP government in the state, the squares were reduced and there was no proper claim and planning, and this is particularly serious about the issue of pediatrics. It's essential to improve working conditions. Work saturation is exaggerated in primary care. Saturated cups. In pediatrics, we have places where we can't cover this proximity service: on the luxurious mountain, Chantada even just got to spend two days a week on pediatrics, on Trives lands... finally, there's a bunch of situations that make there's no job stability and there's no decent working conditions. Even medical schools are going to demand that plus of guards for pregnant doctors, which has been a claim for some time ago. So what do we have? Well, an MIR call which allows for this increase of squares, which are still not sufficient; and it is of course the task of the Board to allow all these qualified squares to be convened, which actually means to increase the health budget, to allow for stable recruitment as soon as the MIRs complete training and have the means to train. Our amendment is simply going to have to have a specific plan to recover all those professionals who are in immigration and who would again have suitable jobs and good working conditions, including professionals who are found in private. This is one of our measures that we proposed to improve primary care, and we considered it to be enough. But obviously we will vote in favour of your non-law proposal, regardless of whether or not you accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u204	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez Verao. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado Cores has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u205	Good morning. In order to have quality health services, in order to have quality public health care, it is necessary to have trained, qualified professionals and in sufficient numbers. This seems to be the case, but the reality is that this is not what we have in Galicia's public health system, but that we have an inadequate health system of staff, with an important part of what we have in our situation of work precariously. And that's because it acted so that it was like this, that's because the decisions were made to make us in this situation. The DOG of May 18, 2012 published the Sergas Human Resources Management Plan. And this plan, conceived as a planning tool, concluded that there was an important ageing of staff. He textually said that in this planning instrument, after analyzing the needs of the organization on the basis of study and prior assessment of the population structure and of the current configuration of the staff of the Galician Health Service, it is concluded that there is significant aging in global terms of the staff of the agencies, which is most accused in the collective of medically licensed staff. This was said by Sergas' own Human Resources Management Plan, made by the People's Party at Galician Union, in Sergas, and published in the DOG in 2012. What happened next? Well, the Council and Sergas went olympically from their own Human Resources Management Plan. As a result, it was obvious that in a short time Sergas would not have staff to cover the vacancies that were taking place by retirement, absences or casualties. BNG brought this issue here already in the previous legislation, we made reference and warned about this situation, but the People's Party voted against it because it was unnecessary alarmism what the Galician Nationalist Block did. Therefore, the People's Party did not act in training to carry out these labour policies to promote the presence and necessity of professionals and did not offer them decent working conditions for them to stay in Galicia at the end of their training process. They need formulas to give stability, not formulas to perpetuate precariousness. Galician public health professionals are at the limit, they're full of day contracts and hour contracts and tired of terminating contracts of one, two, three months for years, and they're tired of having to do their work, the work on the side and the work on the side; that is, they're in a limited situation. We will therefore agree with what the Socialist Party Member put forward here, that we have formed as many doctors as possible — we agree — but what we also agree with is that, soon after that training, we integrate them into the system. And there's a question that makes it impossible to integrate into the system the necessary number of professionals, the number of professionals who have been eliminated from the system since the repositioning rate since 2010 that the Socialist Party launched and did not derogate the People's Party. So, we train them, we agree, but then we also agree that we have to integrate them into the system, and in order to have full powers in the system it is necessary to repeal that replacement rate. As it has been expressed here by active and passively by the People's Party and the Socialist Party, who agree to repeal that rate of rest, which I have subjected to the removal of hundreds of professionals from the system, is why the BNG also brings here a amendment in which we say: "demand the immediate derogation from the rate of rest" — which I am convinced that some and others will not, but I want to believe that they will, are some or others forming part of a government—and summon the public offer of employment of the OP with all the vacant squares in all categories. We don't need BNG either. We don't want to make traps to accumulate all the squares only in doctors and eliminate other necessary squares as well. It's necessary to incorporate all the squares. And then we need an obvious question: compromise in the budgets of the Union of the year 2020 — in a few days, I will present in this Parliament, as they said, the budgets — the arrangements sufficient to incorporate these professionals into Sergas. We need to form more...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u206	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u207	...it's necessary to incorporate them into the network, and for that it takes cash and sounding, white on black or black on white, in the budgets of the Union, to see if everything is said if you want to become real. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u208	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u209	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Mr. Torrado spoke here of the 363 MIR squares that summoned Mr. Zapatero, but forgot that Mr. Zapatero put a 10% replenishment rate, with which he would form specialists to leave them unemployed; that doesn't matter. You also forgot, ladies and gentlemen, the economic situation in which Spain remained after Mr Zapatero passed by. There is one responsible for the crisis and there is one responsible for the situation today, which is not by chance the Socialist Party, and Mariano Rajoy and the People's Party are actually the culprits that we are as we are now and that the MIR squares can be increased. But comparing situations from 2010 to 2019 seems frankly unfair. And Mr. Torrado begins the explanatory statement of his initiative with a stoning statement, which we are used to listening to for his part: the great problem of Galicia's public health system — Galicia — is in human resources policy. We agree with the deficit of professionals, particularly family doctors and some other specialty; it is a problem. But we have spoken on a number of occasions and have shown on a number of occasions on this stage that the problem is not unique to Galicia, which affects all autonomous communities. I have three pearls these last days. Navarro doctors postpone the strike to give more time to Health. Black Fridays of Aragonese health, sanitaries return to the street. CESM denounces that the MIRs leave the Valencian Community because of work insecurity. It seems that the Greek doctors will not be able to emigrate to any of these three communities. But there is also a new article published in the Medical Journal these days, which is a report by the Ministry of Health on the state of health in the European Union of 2018. And the title is: The lack of specialists is not just a Spanish problem. The deficit of medical specialists, the ageing of staff and the development of primary care are challenges that go beyond the Spanish borders. This is a report from the Ministry of Health. And that same report points out that the number of doctors and nursing staff is increasing in almost all countries, but that the shortage of doctors is common, particularly in rural areas throughout Europe and remote and, essentially, in general practitioners. And you talk a lot about planning here all the time. That same report says that planning on this subject is very complicated, for possible changes in professional needs, for migratory currents, and for the ageing of the staff. I believe these references abound to dismantle the catastrophist discourse on the Welsh health that Mr. Torrado has, which comes to expose this Welsh health to a recent forum of health parliamentarians that took place in Segovia, and where Mr. Torrado said: "The model has bursted in Galicia." This one who speaks to them was already witnessed on another occasion in a similar forum, in that same forum, another performance of another person from the Galician Socialist Party who acted there and said something similar or even worse than these, with a face of perplexity of all the people attending, including the people of the Socialist Party itself. You also said, Mr. Torrado, in that forum things we have not heard here in this Parliament. For example, "patients go to primary even if sometimes they don't need to." Good. Another: "The question isn't the resources, it's the organization." And, "The patient is also not the axis of the system, he's the doctor and everything turns around them." And it offers as a solution to increase psychologists, physiotherapists or even administrative ones. The assessment of the needs and health-care problems of the Greek health care that Mr Torrado is doing in that forum has little to do with what he normally expresses in this Parliament. Look, Mr. Torrado, in the Interterritorial, in the last Rajoy Government Health Interterritorial, has approved a series of measures to improve the training of specialists: accreditation of MIR squares, approval of non-Community physicians, nursing specialties and legislative changes to encourage permanence in difficult coverage or professional registration. There has been no progress in the last fifteen or sixteen months in any of these fields, but there is an Interterritorial one week next — of course, pre-election. At this 17th point, there is no mention of primary care or training, which are really the problems of Welsh health. Of course, we are not talking about the rate of restorative or primary or state-level health problems in the thirty-five social measures of the Socialist Party. We tabled an amendment, and the amendment basically refers to primary care, because it is the one that has the most serious problems at the moment of the Brazilian and Spanish public health. The amendment, given the commitment already expressed by the counsellor and the councillor to convene all the squares, is: to offer all MIR squares of medical and nursing family and community and also of pediatrics, convening all accredited MIR squares with tutors in the year 2020, because one problem of family squares is that there are tutors who have shifted -- yes, yes -- and there are places that are believed to have no tutors, and to offer a continuity contract to all residents who end their family specialty and those who have to do with primary care. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because you're asking in your proposal for stable contracts for all professionals to terminate the MIR. I think that to have a stable contract, and maybe as you interpret...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u210	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u211	...not including interinstances, you have to go through an OPE exam, you can't give the squares directly. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u212	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Parliamentary Group Joint Left Group, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u213	Thank you, President. Suspended. That's the note that all health advisors and advisors of the last ten years and even ministers and ministers deserve. Because this can't become a "and you" debate. We have problems covering the specialties that were known ten years ago and planning was a disaster. You can't get to a situation now where professionals are missing in primary care and pediatrics. And this situation had to be planned, of course; now comes the rushes and the problems at the time of coverage. Of course, it doesn't just happen in Galicia, because planning, the problem with planning is that it hasn't been addressed all these years. It is a partial part, of course — it also counts — recruitment. But, of course, they should be given a public warning, because now we have a health problem that is quite important in what it has to do with pediatricians and, of course, also with regard to primary care, and these are the most relevant problems. There are other specialties that historically have problems, such as anesthesia -- there are others -- but obviously they're not so abundant or have a decisive amount at the time of direct health care; they're very important, but there's fewer professionals within the health system. And that's a problem. So this debate cannot be turned into a pim, pam, pum. And during this legislation and in the previous one we made proposals in that direction. Today we are going to support this non-law proposal brought by the Socialist Party. We understand that it is necessary to plan the number of residents and of course that it is also important to have the number of squares that the public summons take. We, ten years after the crisis, refused to assume that there was no more remedy than to cut. It's not true. We defend him here many times. There was money to rescue the savings boxes; however, a decision was made by the different governments in central government and here too. And now we have a problem, because we are added to the depreciation of squares with the lack of forecast in the need to form new professionals. Obviously, training a doctor, a doctor, is a process of at least five years -- I'm talking about residence, not career -- at least. And, therefore, if there's no forecast, there's a difficulty. We are going to support it — and in addition to the debate on the state of the nation we are talking about this issue. We have a problem, we should form all those we can and, of course, we must guarantee them continuity. But that continuity should be debated seriously, because we do not defend the Union's continuity contract, if we defend that a contract should be made, but it must be concluded. People don't accept it why? Because internal mobility is very large; therefore, the tendency should be, first, to fix all possible employment, i.e. the public offers that permanently cover all these squares and, in the case of residents who end up and that we need to cover absences within the system, give them as much stability as possible, i.e. reduce geographical mobility as possible. That's an important element and I think it should be studied to reward those who work in the less attractive places — between you and me. We also have a problem with county hospitals and remote areas. And that's a job that needs to be done, and you have to sit down and talk about it seriously and not move it into a campaign debate; that is, it's a very serious problem and actually you should be working in a format that allows you to form as many as possible, to get all possible OPEs out of it, of course. The increase in the replenishment rate is important, but we also have to work on the budgets coming from next year. And of course, the contracts for coverage are made with the greatest possible stability, negotiated. Because the problem is that now — and that is why we are against — a one-year contract in which professionals are moving through various areas is not accepted on many occasions, because obviously it does not guarantee stability for these professionals, it makes it very difficult to reconcile family and work life. If we want the few who are out — the few or many of us can attract — to come back, we have to put forward a proposal that is minimally serious, and there must be a consensus on that element. These months what has been working within these technical commissions has not had any practical application. And we insisted: it was an element to demobilize the professionals, to get them out of the street, to dethrone before the electoral processes. And we're going to find that, as the conclusions are not, the necessary items will not appear in the budgets to put in place those proposed measures. And of course there is a need for other professionals such as physiotherapy and psychology, social work, but they need resources and planning, and for that it is necessary for different administrations to agree and obey. You can't notice what's been wrong, let's sit down and see what we can do from now on. In that sense, we support this and any proposal that comes from the groups that are geared towards this situation, because in fact — already mentioned — we have a problem that will cost a lot of time to solve, so it will be difficult to incorporate all the professionals who are going to form themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u214	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u215	Thank you, President. Well, at the end of the day, the question is as always: some of us defend the incorporation of personnel into the public system, and others always find excuses. We're going to incorporate the amendments proposed by the Joint Group and the Galician Nationalist Block. It's true that they don't deal exactly with the matter, but it's all intertwined, and so we assume it is. Although the BNG spoke particularly explicitly about its amendment and not our initiative, but we incorporated it, we have no problem, and, particularly, we have no problem voting in favour of the replacement rate. We assume that the People's Party will vote in favour too, because it always says it defends it, although it only defends it when others rule in Madrid. In any case, it's all right. [[Applause]] Let me explain. On the amendment of the People's Party and the position of the People's Party, I'm going to allow myself a parenthesis. I'm going to allow myself a parenthesis, Mr. Núñez Centeno. You have made some appeals that need to be answered. First of all, I thank you for following my speeches in the different forums to which you invite us, I am delighted. I'm asking you not to cheat. Allow me, because there were people in your parliamentary group who were there and you weren't, and therefore you can tell him what I said enough. By the way, at a table with a director general of the Andalusian system or his spokesperson in Madrid, who, by the way, gave me the reason, also when I said that the primary care system in Galicia had burst because of the mismanagement of professionals. And it's true: it blew up, because if you don't, it's just like you didn't find out there's a constant strike and there's going to be another one. [[Applause]] But I'll also tell you something else, I'll also argue with you something else. When you maintain that I said -- and I did indeed -- that patients often go to health centers, go to the emergency centers, to the CAPs, and often don't know that they shouldn't go, cut an important part, which I added, because I added: that's for two questions: one, because they fully trust their doctor, and two, because the patient is not responsible for knowing when to go and when not. And that's why we need to have more professionals in the health center, which is what you don't do. You ask the professionals to do everything they can, we don't put them any more, and the patients tell them, you don't know about medicine, because of course they don't know, they have professionals. So, next time, come to the forums and you can therefore think of what we think. As a last question, on the amendment proposed by the People's Party, which can thus excuse the way you were not voting, what you were saying now, if I had defended myself on behalf of the whole group, it is basically: we have been asking for more MIR places for a long time, we have come to ask for an extraordinary, illegal summons, but now that they give us more squares, what a pity, that you have no tutor and we cannot summon them! So why would they ask for an extraordinary summons? Only to slip the bulk. You know why? Because you, worthy representative of your government, as happens to President Feijóo, and you're only looking at who blames you. The health system bothers you with a piece of shit and the only thing you're worried about is looking for who's to blame. You don't care about public health, they're always against you. And you know what's wrong with him? That, as they care about an ass, the only thing they're worried about in this system right now is to try to win the punching story. [[Applause]] Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u216	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. After we have finished the debate on non-legislative proposals, we proceed to the vote. If you like all Members, if you take the script, I avoid having to read everything that we are going to vote for and so we just go with the number and shorten something. We then began by voting on the proposal by the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block Galego, which was defended by Mrs Rodil, in which she stated that she did not accept the amendment of the Joint Parliamentary Group and accepted a point of amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, or which called for a point vote. I accepted the vote by points. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's two points. Let's vote for the first point. We vote. Vote for the first point of the proposed non-law G.P. text. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members, on the Plan of Standardization of the Greek Language in Youth and the measures to be taken by the Greek Government in the area of language policy among the children's population. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 40; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. This point of the non-law proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u217	We voted for the second point of this proposal. Vote for the second point of the proposed non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members, on the Plan of Standardization of the Greek Language in Youth and the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece in the field of linguistic policy among the children's population The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This point of the non-law proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u218	We are now voting on the proposal by the Joint Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Rodríguez, which is pending a transaction and even a point vote. There's no transaction, and I don't vote for points, either. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Mixto, at the initiative of Mr. David Rodríguez Estévez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the management of jurors and waste from the intensive livestock holdings that are being carried out in the territory of the Limia. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 20 votes against, 40; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u219	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Da Paula Prado, where a transaction was pending. It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u220	Thank you very much, President. The transaction we are going to vote on is our proposal, points 1 and 2, and add a point 3, which would say, "Presenting in the House, after the preliminary reports, the draft game law, to start the parliamentary processing process of it." It's a transaction with the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u221	Thank you. We voted for this transaction. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Galician people, at the initiative of Da Paula Prado del Río and eight other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Galician Union aimed at incorporating the draft legislation regulating the Galician games of an article establishing the creation of a Greek gaming observatory that has among its functions to develop a juvenile playing protocol and an annual report on the play in the autonomous community. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 50; abstentions, 23. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u222	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Xoaquín Fernández Leiceaga. There are no amendments. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga and Da María Teresa Porritt Lueiro, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the evolution of territorial imbalances in Galicia and the depopulation of some districts, as well as the guarantee of access to basic services to the whole population throughout the territory The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u223	The following is the People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Vega Pérez, who has not accepted the amendments. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Daniel Vega Pérez and 13 other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government to ensure the activity of the production centres and the workplaces of the Alcoa factories in San Cibrao and a stable and competitive energy framework, as well as the adoption of a status of support for electrointensive companies. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 73. The voting is positive. It is therefore adopted by 73 votes in favour of this non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u224	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Rivas Cruz, in which he does not accept the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. José Luis Rivas Cruz and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the German Government in respect of the alleged irregularities detected by the neighborhood of Sobrado dos Monxes in relation to the rafts of mud of different origin existing in the mountains of the municipality. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 60; abstentions, 13. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u225	We are voting now... — silence, please, of the Parliamentary Group on the Left at the initiative of Mrs Chao, in which she accepts the amendment of the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block Galego and does not accept the amendment of the Joint Parliamentary Group or of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Murmurs.]] We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Joint Left Group, at the initiative of Da Luca Chao Pérez and Da María de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the economic cost to families at the start of the school course. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u226	We are now voting for the Group of the Left's Joint Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Chao as well, in which no amendments have been tabled. Excuse me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you ask for a point vote? Do you accept the point vote? Accept. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] How many points are there? Two. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's vote for the point first. We vote. Vote of the first point of the Proposal, not the law of the G.P. Joint Left Group, at the initiative of Da Luca Chao Pérez and da Paula Quinteiro Araújo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to ensure the naval activity and jobs at the Vulcan shipyard, as well as to address a joint policy for the sector. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 73. The voting is positive. It is therefore adopted by 73 votes in favour of this point of non-law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u227	We now vote on the second point of this non-law proposal. We vote. Vote of the second point of the Proposal, not the law of the G.P. Joint Left Group, at the initiative of Da Luca Chao Pérez and da Paula Quinteiro Araújo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to ensure the naval activity and jobs at the Vulcan shipyard, as well as to address a joint policy for the sector. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This point of the non-law proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u228	We are now voting on the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Julio Torrado, who accepts the amendment of the Joint Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Galego Nationalist Block. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela and da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the squares of resident domestic doctors empowered by the Central Government for the year 2020. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected. Institutional declaration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u229	I'm now reading them, because I'm transferred to the groups, a manifesto on the occasion of World Architecture Day, which says, "Architecture, housing for all and for all." He said: "This year, on World Architecture Day, on Monday, October 7, the International Union of Architects, the Superior Council of the Colleges of Architects of Spain and the Official College of Architects of Galicia, focus on the decisive challenge that housing represents for all. Over a billion people all over the world live precariously and without urban services and millions of men and women sheltered and displaced by conflicts and catastrophes lack a roof permanently. In Spain the progressive concentration around large cities and the failure of an accessible residential park are increasing the price of housing. This makes it difficult for young people and families to have access to a housing that responds to their needs in a dignified and proper manner while the rural world, now present in Galicia, suffers from the phenomenon of depopulation. The accelerated changes we live in, the urgency of coping with climate emergencies, reducing the energy consumption of homes, and the need to adapt them to the current ways of life and work and the requirements of an increasingly aging population, show a housing park that requires a generalized and urgent transformation. Architecture professionals direct efforts to contribute to the collective response that demands these challenges, in the face of the unachievable price of housing, bringing in efficient, innovative and transversal architectural solutions and urban and territorial strategies that rebalance supply and demand in the medium and long term, against depopulation by providing urban and strategic planning of different scales and actions of urban consolidation and renewal in each municipality, and by encouraging and contributing to the renewal and adequacy of the built housing park to ensure its quality and to meet current and future housing needs very different from those that existed when it was built. For all this, the architects of Galicia believe it is necessary to take a leap forward, a step that involves all the agents involved (professional colleges, local, provincial and autonomous institutions and, of course, the whole of Galician society), so that, among all, we can put a stop to the situations we often encounter, working together to guarantee the right to access a decent housing for all people, alerting and informing others and providing help and assistance. Because there are many homes that still lack hot water, many of them owned by older people and with low resources, others that lack heating or minimum insulation and where families are living with several dependent minors, hundreds of cases that alarm us, worry and make us commit. Because we do not believe that in the society in which we live we can tolerate that there are so many dwellings or buildings that lack the minimum living conditions, safety and even stability conditions, which in our territories are thousands. We reduce its number and thus guarantee decent and suitable housing, integrated in quality environment and built contours, for all but especially for the most vulnerable families and people in Galicia. We build channels with society, we build dignity and rights, we build housing for everyone." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u230	Now we're on. Open the doors, please. Debates and votes on the ceiling on non-financial expenditure on the general budgets of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2020, in accordance with Article 12 of Law 2/2011 of 16 June 2011 on budgetary discipline and financial sustainability
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u231	I note that the Council of Galicia, on 3 October 2019, agreed on the ceiling for non-financial expenditure of the general budgets of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2020, which is fixed at EUR 10.160 million, in accordance with Article 12 of Law 2/2011, of 16 June, on budgetary discipline and financial sustainability, referred to this House for approval in conjunction with the report of the financial-fiscal strategy referred to in Article 12.1 of that Act. Before the vote, the Government has a fifteen-minute round for its presentation and a ten-minute round will then be granted for parliamentary groups. We therefore begin with the presentation of the councillor of Fairy, Mr. Valeriano Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u232	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. I am here today before Parliament to present the non-financial expenditure limit for 2020, which was adopted last week at the Board of Trustees, in accordance with Article 12 of the Law on budgetary discipline and financial sustainability. The German Government has been a pioneer in the adoption by law of this instrument and this is already the ninth year that presents it to this House. In order to achieve maximum transparency, I would like to remind you that we have decided not only that the Executive had to approve the spending ceiling, but that it had to be submitted to the consideration of the Autonomic Parliament to request permission from this non-financial expenditure limit. Ladies and gentlemen, although almost a decade ago we have been able to bring the expenditure ceiling to the House and are already part of the budget cycle and it is an act of normality, we have taken two exercises which we cannot approve of within the usual time limits and we have to explain to Parliament why. This delay occurred in both cases because of circumstances beyond the German Government. Why would we say that? Because, just as it had happened in 2018, as I had the opportunity to expose myself to this same plenary now twelve months ago, this year the Central Government did not communicate in July to the autonomous communities a certain delivery. Last year was a month away from IVE. This year, we didn't even have any ciphers transferred to us. Therefore, the Central Government has failed, for the second consecutive year, the Law of Stability; this is something unprecedented, had never happened. Besides, unfortunately, we still don't get the money we're entitled to this year 2019. It's 700 million euros from the Greeks that we won't get tired of claiming, because they're from the Greeks and the Greeks, and because he asked us for this House too. [[Applause]] But, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to claims, we are also responsible, and despite this set of circumstances, these extraordinary, unpublished circumstances, since the Greek Government we have adopted the political determination to prepare the budgetary framework to approve, as we always do, the autonomous accounts in time and form for the next exercise, because the Greeks have given us stability to free Galicia from the instability that the State has and not to contaminate us from the paralysis of state politics. Our political decision — to draw up budgets — does not mean that we do not understand that other governments refuse to do their own business because they think they are unable to do so, but we in Galicia, with the experience and support of ten years of management, with the knowledge acquired and with the trajectory of rigour, we understand that we can draw up our budgets because we know how to do it, and we must draw up budgets because the normality of the budget cycle is the greatest factor of stability, and stability is the best we can offer right now to citizens, families and businesses. Citizens demand solvency, serious, responsible and fulfilling governments. That's why we think it's a good decision to draw up budgets. At a time of uncertainty in Spain, we want to assure the Greeks; at a time of insecurity in Spain, we want to give the Galicians security; at a time of non-compliance in Spain, we want to comply with the Greeks. For these reasons, Galicia will approve the 2020 budget in time and form. And, as a first step to take account of next year, we bring to the House today this spending ceiling, which has as its main characteristics that is prudent and rigorous. Obviously, in these exceptional circumstances we work with the greatest realism and prudence in the estimates of each of the income components. Before explaining these income components, I want to frame the economic scenario in which it is developed. Although Galicia will moderate its growth this year, it remains higher than the average of our surroundings and the euro area, and, with the estimates we have, by 2020 Galicia will lead to seven years of growth. The scenario that predicts the spending ceiling prolongs the expanding dynamics of the Greek economy for the next few years, although with slowdown in GDP growth, already this 2019, and with sustained growth for the following years. For the period 2019-2020, and from the point of view of demand, growth is based on domestic demand, by the worst behavior of the external sector this year, which will recover in the following year. From the point of view of the offer, we all know the problems that the industrial sector is having this year, with certain decisions of the central government, also by all known, that are not helping, rather the contrary, while the services and construction will moderate its growth. In view of this scenario, the next celebration of the Year of Xacobeo 2021, which we believe will be a key factor in sustaining the dynamism of the Greek economy over the next few years. In this way, the macroeconomic framework for the next two years is characterized by spending on final consumption of non-profit homes and institutions that will maintain strong growth. Expenditure on final consumption of public administrations will increase from 1,1 % this year to 2% by 2020. Gross capital formation will continue to be at a high rate of activity, although the advance rates will be lower, since it will be 4.8% in 2018 and 3% in 2020. On the other hand, the rise in net external demand will be negative because of the fact that Welsh exports are affected by trade tensions in international markets and by the obvious weakness of domestic demand in Spain. Export growth will be recovered by 2020. With these estimates, we formulate a macroeconomic framework which, as we always do, I feel prudent and realistic. Given the uncertainties that exist in the economy both globally and due to political instability in Spain, we believe that the most prudent thing is to place GDP growth in Galicia, this year 2019, at 2%. It is true that until the first half of 2018 the growth of Spain's economy exceeded 3%, but the political instability that has been established in Spain since then, with a government without the ability to approve new budgets, is having negative effects on the economy. Despite this, at this moment, we think that Galicia can grow by 2% this year, in the line of what the set of Spain will really grow, when it confirms the foreseeable revision to the bottom of its macroeconomic framework. In addition, in terms of employment, we speeded up the drop in the unemployment rate. We passed from 12.7%, which we planned a year ago, to close 2019 and lower it to 11.4%, with a drop of 1.3 points. This is a consequence that 2018 was a very good year for employment and that, as we used to, we were cautious in forecasts. As for the forecast for 2020, we are also very cautious because of these uncertainties that I am talking about, and that is why we believe that the growth will be 1.9% in GDP. The average annual unemployment rate for 2020 will be 10.6%, with the expectation that it will be in the last quarter below 10% over the next year. With these forecasts, we are in a position to meet the average growth of 2.5 % per year we were given in the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020, because the average progress between 2015 and 2019 will be very close to 3%, and we are also in a position to meet the estimate of ending 2020 with a 10% unemployment rate. In this way, in Galicia we will chain seven years of growth and job creation. After explaining the macroeconomic scenario, I'll explain how we estimate each component of non-financial expenditure ceiling income by 2020. So, to calculate the income of the autonomic financing system — which, as you know, represents about 80% of our income — we were very scrupulous, and we predicted an increase in the nominal growth of the next year's economy, which we estimated would grow by 3.6%. Delivery to account, both the IRPF and the IVE, has increased by 3.5%, in line with that forecast that pointed to them from nominal GDP, while the one from special taxes we made at 2.9%, since the consumption of such taxes is less dynamic and is less related to the economic cycle. We consider these prudent variables, since the Independent Tax Responsibility Authority, by analysing the current update of the 2019-2022 Stability Programme, presented by the Central Government in April this year, estimated for the IRPF a 5% increase and for the VAT and special taxes of 4.9%. Thus, the forecasts made by the German Government in relation to those formulated by Airef collect a representative differential from the downward trend that we have today. For its part, the final liquidation of the funding system resources to be included in the 2020 budgets corresponding to the resources generated during 2018 was calculated from the data of the State Tax Agency for 2018, so that the settlement of that year will experience an increase of EUR 268 million in relation to the year 2017, and, once adjusted to the negative liquidations of the years 2008-2009, the total balance of the liquidation 2018 will rise in the financial year up to EUR 316 million, seven times more than that of the year 2017. As far as finalist transfers from other administrations are concerned, they rise by 5.2%, both because of the progress made in the territorial distribution of shares — which we have already known — from sectoral conferences as well as from European funds, because the annuality corresponding to the end-time of the implementation of the funds is planned. With regard to the other non-financial resources of the Autonomous Community, which include taxes administered by the Union, own taxes, public and private prices and capital income, we estimate an increase of 2% as an average of this heterogeneous group. With these forecasts, we will bring to Parliament a prudent and rigorous expenditure ceiling for 2020, a non-financial expenditure ceiling that will be close to EUR 10.160 million, which means an increase of EUR 311 million on the current budget, i.e. 3.1 % more. This is the first time we have a spending ceiling that clearly exceeds EUR 10 billion. In addition, it must be borne in mind that, one more year, real spending capacity will increase, and this is possible because by 2020 we will reduce interest on debt again. Thanks to the responsible management that this Government has done, indebtedness has shown a smaller increase since 2009 compared to any other autonomous community and also has a proper restructuring. In particular, the financial expenditure will fall EUR 19 million by 2020. Of these 10,160 million euros of expenditure ceilings, 10,112 are non-financial revenues, 68 come from the public deficit target and 20 million negative national accounting targets. The main conclusion is that we continue to increase our resources in a practical scenario of budgetary stability. In fact, just like this year, we only anticipate a 0.1% deficit, which has been reported to the autonomous communities by the Government of Spain to Brussels in its stability programme. So we're in a scenario where we're strengthening our spending ceiling target already, as a result of Galicia, as I told you, it was the community that has increased its debt since 2009. And since 2016 we've been lowering that debt ratio of GDP and this management has already allowed us to have 3,970 million euros less in debt today. With this non-financial spending ceiling for 2020, in the last five years our spending capacity has grown into something more than 1,700 million euros, with 334 million euros less in debt. So we reached 2020 with the Strategic Plan — which is our road map, designed four years ago — fulfilled and with the duties done. Ladies and gentlemen, the challenge now is to prepare for the next decade, which starts with the first Xacobeo after eleven years without celebrating the so-called Holy Year. We want an increasingly young Galicia, more and more familiar, more innovative and increasingly green. I therefore call on them to support the expenditure ceiling by 2020. We are fully fulfilling the forecast of growth, estimated in the Strategic Plan around 3%, which places us to the present day when we are able to lower the unemployment rate year by year and create already eighty thousand jobs in the first four years, and because by 2020 we have a spending ceiling tool that will exceed these 10 billion euros, to continue to grow and create jobs. In Galicia we have a consolidated model, that of healthy growth. Galicia has stability, Galicia has confidence and it transmits security to its citizens, families and businesses. In Galicia we have a government that takes advantage of this stability that the Greeks gave to put it to the service of citizens, in this case with a spending ceiling that guarantees that they have new budgets by 2020 in time and form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u233	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u234	Good morning, gentlemen. The spending ceiling is one of the many failed neoliberal dogmas. Yesterday, Kristalina Georgieva, director of the International Monetary Fund, ran off with austerity revenues from countries such as Germany, those who claimed the most public investment in R & D or infrastructure. The way in which the different versions of neoliberalism faced the crisis determined different economic growths. The Newkynesian policies of the Obama administration in the past decade have driven the American economy far more agilely than a European Union stuck in the bitterst dogmas of the austerity of a Chicago school that the Americans didn't even follow. And within that dogma of austerity, also in Europe, the economies that applied it more rigorously were the ones that cut rights and reduced well-being caused the population. But it's just that, in addition, it was the ones that grew more captivatingly in the expansive phase of the cycle. Austerity, therefore, has caused more suffering and less economic growth; it has produced more destruction of employment, first, and then less job creation, then, and more precariously. Ladies and gentlemen, there's leave. It can be economically liberal and not embrace all the dogmas of neoliberalism. Galicia does not have to adhere ideologically to dogmas that harm its citizenship, reducing services to its elders and strangling the hopes of future young people. The People's Party could have been legally imperative to regulate the expenditure ceiling in budgetary planning but not to ideologically adhere to its policies, policies that condemn us to economic and demographic implosion. Far from this, the People's Party, in an acrylic manner, assumes as an advanced student policies that placed us in an emergency situation. In fact, we understand from Marea that Galicia is in a situation of industrial, environmental emergency, a feminist emergency, a social emergency, and that the Union has not only done anything to address these emergencies, but is guilty, through a destructive and self-destructive economic management — and there is no more to see the map of Galicia's deindustrialization in this very plenary of Parliament — of how these emergencies have sunk and how they have dealt with them. And yes, economic management is delirious, annihilating the territory and ultimately leads to the demographic implosion of Galicia. To speak and discuss, ladies and gentlemen, spending ten years after the crisis, an absolute failure of cutting policies and when the international economic current within liberalism has already expressly declared its rejection of a policy of cuts, completely inefficient, is absurd. But it's just that, in addition, seeing the journey of the last four years, without going further, this measure is not only absurd because it is anachronistic, but also because it ends up being used conveniently or — let's say it clear — partisan. When appropriate, the expenditure ceiling covers the increase in GDP and, if not, no. In 2016, which was an election year, the spending ceiling rose above the GDP planned for that year; in the following years, 2017, 2018 and 2019, it did so below and this year, which is back to being an election year, a forecast is again made above. Of course, what do you tell us, Counselor? He tells us that the People's Party gives us the right. Yes, yes, only their policy in relation to the expenditure ceiling is done not in relation to the economic cycle but in relation to the electoral cycle. [[Murmurs.]] The accounts should be held in view of the medium term, the economic cycle, not the natural year, nor the electoral cycle. But obviously, ladies and gentlemen, this vision is correlated with the model and the project that the People's Party has for Galicia. The People's Party has an economic mantra that faithfully obeys, and this mantra, this matraca, says, first of all, that we have to reduce the weight of the public and lower taxes, which necessarily implies — and we have suffered it over the last decade — less public services and more privatization. There's one of the last ones that we're living in this very plenary, too, with the sale of Povervisa, etc. It has the mantra of economic inefficiency or economic efficiency. For them, that is, all expenditure has to be efficient, forgetting that there is public expenditure that is not, it may not be efficient, but what needs to be done, to provide services in economically depressed areas or even sociodemographically. There's a mantra that is the non-intervention in the economy or the market, but it's obvious that, if we want important Galician companies, a strong Greek productive fabric, it's necessary to intervene in the economy, and so it's done around us. I'm going to put two examples. In Euskadi, a fund of EUR 175 million has recently been set up for the purpose of shielding certain strategic companies for the country, or in France, where this State has invested EUR 100 million in BlaBlaCar, nothing more and nothing less, and has nationalized a yard with the aim of securing employment and defending French interests. We don't know whether these Macron policies are communist policies for Mr. Counselor, or if they move away from that neoliberal discipline that you support. There's a mantra of what has to be the rural environment for the People's Party. The rural area for Junta represents a stone in the shoe that must be taken from the front and its maintenance is expensive and difficult to maintain and, in addition, it generates inefficiencies. The strategy, therefore, is clear: empty it and give it to large companies in raw materials extraction. Well, we don't agree with this. Of course, for all these ideas, the People's Party has a perfectly defined tax and income and expenditure policy, which is based on a budget policy whose core is the cost ceiling. Focusing on figures, giving you some that are evidence of the failure of the spending ceiling doctrine as a thinner of the public in the economy and as a symptom of the weakening of the transforming power of institutions, in this case of the State or the Autonomous Community, in the economy. Firstly, with regard to the proceeds of gross domestic product, without stopping in many figures, Galicia's economic growth over these years has been really very weak in the expansion of the cycle. The Greek economy has grown less than the Spanish average. On average, the Spanish economy grew by 1% annually while Galicia did so by 0.9%. So, some neoliberal recipes approved and supported by this government in the last ten years that have made us diverge from the state average. Secondly, the cuts in public spending. The increase in gross domestic product was smaller than the Spanish average, but the most serious was that the cuts in public expenditure were much greater than the Spanish average. We have recently heard a report in this direction, which shows how in 2009 expenditure on basic public services — i.e. health, education and social services — amounted to a total of 7.100 million euros, while in 2018 expenditure on these functions was still 3.75 % under this amount, with 266 million less. If an analysis is done, as is done in this report, at per capita expense, in Galicia we have just represented 66.4% of the total to just 63.2%, cutbacks, of course, which then show a social situation in Galicia with dramatic numbers. But we also have a differential, a step balance, a conclusion in which we saw how the gross domestic product is going to increase and the public spending is going to be reduced, that is, in a proportion that is becoming more and more small. There is as a result of this more wealth and less public distribution, less public redistribution. These factors, in addition, have definitely influenced both employment and industry. Galicia is — and the data are there to see it — the autonomous community with the worst evolution of employment. Today there are 55,000 employees less than in 2009, while in Spain the number of unemployed has risen by 650,000. The data from the Economic and Social Council, presented last Friday, certainly show this situation. It is said in the report that we received this week: alarming reduction in the rate of activity in the last ten years, resulting in a decrease of more than seventy thousand people in our country; job insecurity and unemployment among the most young, one hundred and fifty thousand employed less between 19 and 34 years of age than before the crisis; or persons in part-time, where in Galicia there is a rate of temporality six times higher than in Spain, six times. On the other hand, industrial employment follows its decline. We are, again, one of the most self-employed communities in industry has lost; we have lost five times more industrial jobs than in Spain and today we have 21,600 workers less than we had in 2009, something that doesn't worry too much about the Galician Union, because between the years 2011 and 2018 it has stopped spending on already planned budgets — which we will also discuss in the coming months — nearly a billion euros in employment functions. All this while, as is known — we have talked enough about it at this plenary session — the industrial production index is still falling. All of this, of course, shows a circumstance, and we are not going to get 20% of the gross domestic product to have an industrial origin, as the European Union recommends. This is gonna be a burnout. It's stagnant at 16% and the current industrial crisis will lead us to a path that will make us worse. And the government of Feijóo is doing something? It's not doing anything, these budgets don't do anything. It's going to be a simple necessary accomplice, by default, without exercising its competence in industrial matters. We saw him here this very morning, in Barreras, in Vulcano, in Ferroatlantica, in R, of course also in Alcoa and Endesa, when planning an industrial transition from Galicia, in decarbonization and robotization. On the contrary, we, in our political position, have another project for Galicia, which results in many areas, of course, here antagonistic to that of the People's Party, and we believe that the feminist, ecological and social emergencies are the ones that must manage our budgets, without denying the economic balance, the budgetary balance, but, look!, within the economic cycle and not within each year. It's the public budgets that have to soften to Galicia's needs and emergencies by the principle of financial adequacy, not the other way around. I'm going to finish, Mr. President. While in the European Union the average expenditure on health and education is 7% and 4.5% respectively, in these functions, it is 6% and 3.6%. The proposal by En Marea aims to bring us closer to the average expenditure of the countries of the European Union. As a result, in the coming legislation we want to assimilate ourselves to what represents the best of the European Union, which identifies Europe as a unique territory at the global level and parameters of well-being, which creates the highest conditions of opportunity for people's happiness. This reflection, which has already been concluded, leads us to say that in the coming legislative period the increase in public expenditure, taking into account the estimated increase in GDP, should average the 450 million euros per year to bring us closer to the European average, to finish the next legislation with an increase of 1.700 million public expenditure. Finally, Counsellor, for feminist, climate and social emergencies that Galicia is suffering and for assuming an anachronistic tool, we do not support your proposal for a spending ceiling by 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u235	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u236	Good afternoon to all and to all. The position of the Galego Nationalist Block on what the expenditure ceiling means is a well-known position — we have expressed it here on several occasions: it is clear that this was a tool that was used during the years of the crisis to give a twist to the process of recentralizing, thus limiting the capacity, limited autonomy that we had in the financial sphere and residing in the State important decisions that have just focused on the possibilities of action from Galicia, and that also the spending ceiling was the instrument that was used to apply the hardest cuts during the crisis and, therefore, limit the ability to act from the public. And today we are presented here as the first stage, which is, as is today, the legislation of the budget debate, and, of course, this is also a debate that has its importance. Today we cannot debate what will be the concrete content of the budgets, but only about an estimate that does the Government of what will be destined for those budgets in 2020 and about the analysis by the Galician Union on the economic context in which we are going to move. And I am the only one — not the only one but almost the only one — in which I will agree is that, indeed, we are living this debate at a time when there are great uncertainties and great concerns. But uncertainties have their origin in what's going on in this country. And today we have a Galician crisis, with a five-faced crisis -- the demographic crisis, the industrial crisis, a welfare crisis, an environmental crisis and a self-government crisis -- and these crises the Government does not want to recognize them or assume that it has an important part of responsibility. Because he has the responsibility of a government that has been ten years old and has placed Galicia in the worst situation from a demographic point of view, unable to reverse trends; that he was unable even to recover the job that he had before the crisis; and that he leaves us a country with more inequalities, because the public services have deteriorated, and with more inequalities because today we see how the gross domestic product has grown, but yet no wage has been recovered to that extent. We have a very serious problem of precariousness and a very serious problem of emigration in Galicia which, as I said, has the worst demographic situation in our history. And all that did was triple the public debt, because it's very good here that he gave us data to try to save his face about what this government did, but he did it triple the public debt. And behind that data there are aspects to which I will then refer that explain why they did it. But what we're most concerned about in the BNG is that they follow here with the story of science fiction and the happy Arcadia that leads us to the governments of the People's Party, and that they don't take on the underlying problems that Galicia has or the responsibility that the Union has, which is the Government we have, which should be defending the interests of this country in order to be able to face this situation. And that is the problem, because if we fail to analyze reality, the concrete framework and what is the situation that today is economically and socially Galiza, it is impossible for the Government to agree on the measures that will be taken in the budgets of 2020. I think the best evidence of the exhaustion this government has of the lack of ideas and initiatives is that it has come back here to repeat that question that, thanks to Jacob, Galicia will not have any kind of economic problem. And I will not enter the beliefs; there may be one who believes in miracles; I, of course, am atheist, do not believe in miracles. [[Applause]] But it is still curious that, entering the second half of the 21st century, the great contribution that the Greek Government has to make to a country that has a demographic, economic and social crisis is to go to the trunk of memories and rescue Fraga's ideas. It's that we're in the middle of the 21st century and you follow the policies of the late 20th century, as if it hadn't passed thirty years, and, above all, as if there could be nothing else in Galicia. [[Applause]] And I don't like them misreading our words when we say this either. Galicia has tourist potential. We have to make a tourism that is sustainable, responsible, not unique and exclusively linked to Xacobeo. But, of course, we have other potentials: in the agricultural sector, in the fisheries sector, in the industrial sector, in the energy sector... in different areas of the Greek economy, and the grave thing is that today we have an industrial crisis and none of the problems the Greek economy has in them will solve the Xacobeo 2021, neither in the naval, nor in the automotive sector, nor in the agricultural sector, nor since the relocation of companies, nor in the energy policy that is taking place in this country. And of course, what Galicia needs are real alternatives and forecasts that are realistic. Because to say that this expenditure ceiling and that this economic report is rigorous and that it responds to a correct vision of what will happen to me, of course, I think it's a lot to say. Therefore, we, because of our responsibility to Galicia, because of our citizens' responsibility, cannot support a spending ceiling that will assume that we do not recover all the cuts that have been made in the social sphere, that does not draw a new economic strategy for Galicia and that will not serve to meet the challenges that we now have as a country: social challenges, environmental challenges and economic challenges. We have reached a position where we see that this spending ceiling is a very modest increase in the resources that Galicia has; in fact, only 3.1% are increased, which is the lowest increase since 2017. And this shows that the impact of economic downturn is greater than they want to recognize and that we also have a problem with the financing model, which is not acting either to make Galicia better her position. And we also see how, in the face of an industrial crisis, in the face of a moment of economic downturn and great social inequalities, the Union does not use all the capacity it could have to obtain resources. We have often spoken — and the BNG has said to be exhausted — that there is a very unfair breakdown of the deficit between the different administrations, which is not fair for the state to remain for it — with the lowest percentage of public spending and, above all, of the social importance of its competences — with 0.3% of the deficit capacity and only 0.1% of the autonomous communities. But you've always endorsed this frame. I imagine now, as the People's Party doesn't rule, they'll say it's bad for you. But the truth is, while ruling the People's Party, they accepted a situation in which Galicia's resources were eliminated and that they were the excuse for the social cuts to be applied. We also see how, within what is Galicia's ability to improve funding on what depends on us, you're very little ambitious. Basically — if I remember correctly — I think they plan to increase the collection by 0.2% of our own resources, when in fact what is in Galicia's Union is obvious that a lot of resources could be obtained by making another fiscal policy, a tax policy in which you are actually betting on raising higher incomes or creating new taxes. We have proposed a new tax policy for Galicia in which new taxes appear for large commercial areas, taxes on empty housing that have investment funds, taxes on high-voltage lines, taxes on sugared beverages... i.e. you can make a new tax policy in Galicia that would allow us to have more own resources. There were other nations without a state that did, but we see that here we have always opted for the policy of not doing anything about it, because here we will start recording the high incomes and the incomes of the capital, and, of course, you know who you want to serve. We also have to tell them that it seems unreal to us that the growth forecasts appear on this expenditure ceiling. By the year 2009, you said that the growth in Galicia this year was going to be 2.5%; your own forecasts already say that this growth will not take place and that we'll get better at 2%. The forecasts for 2019 are that it is at 1.9%, i.e., practically the same as what we had this year. And there's a lot of reports and studies on how with this level of growth, net employment won't be generated. And, of course, we haven't just understood or explained to us today how you're going to reverse -- well, it's magic, right, what government does in these forecasts -- the forecasts and trends in the economy. Of course, it's a lot of surprise that, after you've been recording this year...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u237	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u238	...and I'm going to end up—a huge decline in exports, you tell us that next year they're going up for magic art, and that they happen beyond all this... - yes, you can laugh at everything you want; I understand that that's the respect you have for Parliament—a counselor, it's going to be in a context...—yes, yes, yes, you laugh, because it's the respect you have for the Greeks and the Greeks; to me of course, I don't care how you act-- [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] But you'll have to explain to us how in a Brexit scenario without agreement, new agreements with Mercosur — which will also affect production and exports from Greece — in addition to new tariffs in the United States — which also affect Galicia's exporting sectors — and the situation we have at the moment, all of this suddenly disappears and increases exports by magic art. Or the same thing seeing how it's working...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u239	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u240	...or unemployment in our country. Of course, we are going to vote against this ceiling for responsibility for Galicia, because it shows that we are before an exhausted Government that has nothing to offer to this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u241	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. On the part of the Left Joint Group, Mr. Lago Peñas has the floor for a period of ten minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u242	Thank you very much, Vice President Monday. Counselor, let me ask you a question: do you read the papers? This said The Voice of Galicia or Monday October 7th: "Paro, precarious work and economics, the three that take away the dream from the Galicians." And yesterday the first of Vigo's Lighthouse: "Galicia exacerbates its competitive gap with European regions because of its weakness in employment and innovation. It loses even more posts and sinks in 197 of the 268 territories studied in the EU." Counselor, what kind of world does he live in? When he talks here, what country is he talking about? How can you boast of the economic management of your Government if in the ten years that you've been on board it was a lost decade for the economy, for employment and for well-being?, a lost decade in which Feijóo has beaten negative records. Things are happening, as they say, that never happened. Galicia's economic growth has been the lowest since we recovered Autonomy. For the first time a president will leave the Government with less employment than when he began to rule, for the first time the public expenditure of a government will be below what there was when he began to rule after twelve years of government and for the first time the public debt multiplied by three times. It was a decade lost in a generation of jobs, because in the ten years of government in Feijóo, the Greek economy grew at an average rate, counsellor, of 0.5%, the tenth of which grew the Greek economy between 1995 and 2008. In order for you to understand it well, for even President Feijóo to understand it well, in his decade under the leadership of the Galician Union, GDP has grown ten times less than in the previous two decades. Do us all a favor, Counselor: don't tell President Feijóo publicly barbarities. Today he said that the average growth rate of the Greek economy was 3.5 percent in the time they've been ruling. Don't make him say such barbarities, because the president is wrong. Less growth and destruction of employment. Because yes, Counselor, there are 54,000 jobs less today than when Feijóo started ruling. It is a devastating balance, because Galicia — I have said again — is the autonomous community of the whole Spanish state with the worst evolution of employment between the second quarter of the year 2009 — when they began ruling — and the second quarter of the year 2019, the worst of all autonomous communities. Less growth, less employment and more inequality. When they began to rule, 48% of the country's wealth, GDP, was destined for wages; today, 42%, 6 points less GDP. Do you know how much that is? 3.800 million euros for workers and workers. He made it happen to history because in his presidency the participation of employees in wealth has reached its lowest value since statistics exist. This is the 10-year balance of government: less growth, less employment, less well-being and more debt. It is an inheritance that is largely the result of the cuts in public expenditure imposed by compulsory austerity, in which the ceiling of expenditure, this ceiling of expenditure, played a central role. The result of this budgetary discipline was a scrupulous failure, counsellor, also in the formal objectives of legal norms. The law says it aims to ensure the financial stability of public finances. Is that what happened? Not at all, quite the opposite. In the period of application of the expenditure ceiling, public debt increased by EUR 5,500 million. Half of everything our country owes has been generated since there was this spending ceiling rule, which had the function of stabilising public accounts; a huge success, advisor. More debt, which is not incompatible with the fact that there is less public expenditure, because between 2009 and 2017 — I use budget execution data from the Ministry of Business — government Feijóo cut the non-financial expenditure by 2,500 million euros in real terms, because you — I hope — can distinguish between nominal values and real values. Health expenditure is reduced to 9%, education expenditure is cut to 18%, a demolition balance. Added in absolute figures the cuts in health and education, are almost 900 million euros less in basic public services, in which at the same time the presence of private businesses increases. Counsellor, the spending rule and the spending ceiling weren't looking for the balance of the public accounts. His real goal was to reduce public spending. And then it was a huge success, because in 2008 and 2009 the expenditure managed by the Union was more than 18% of GDP. With the expenditure ceiling for 2020 and the nominal GDP estimate for 2020, that figure falls below 15%. Therefore, 3 points less GDP reduction in the weight of the public, which is 2,500 million euros. That's the reduction in public weight in the decade of Government Feijóo. However, the Council reiterates the mistake of starting the budgetary debate by fixing the amount of expenditure ceiling. It's the demonstration that we're still under the dictatorship of austerity, a serious mistake, especially when there's a cycle change in the Greek economy, which is entering a worrying phase of slowdown. Let me have a joke, counselor: seven years growing the Greek economy just like that of Burgos or Rioxa. [[Murmurs.]] This slowdown is caused by the disappearance of external factors that have driven the economy between 2015 and 2018. Clearly, the external sector will not contribute anything to the growth of the Greek economy. It is fundamental — and this is recognized by you in your intervention — the growth in domestic demand, that is, in household spending, in investment and in public spending; that is, in other words, in wages, in pensions and in the budget of the Galician Union. And that's why we need a budget with more resources, an expansive budget, which serves to boost the economy, which serves to combat economic downturn, to prevent an unlikely one — I said it right — an unlikely but possible return to recession. However, his Government continues to insist on the wrong route, because the amount of expenditure it has is disappointing and insufficient. And it's insufficient because, even if the expenditure ceiling is exhausted and 100 percent of the budget is executed, we'll still be EUR 2,200 million under what was actually spent in 2008. Disappointingly, the spending ceiling is going to increase as nominal GDP and hence is going to give up an expanding fiscal policy to combat economic downturn. Especially disappointing because, for the first time, counsellor, you make a budget without having the limits set by the state. He said it right: there is no expense limit, no income estimate per account, no even liquidation of the year 2018. That's why the budgetary restriction you bring here with the expenditure ceiling is your sole responsibility. Figures that -- you said it here and collected in the report -- you know they're wrong. You have just said that the revenues actually obtained in 2018 were EUR 400 million above those estimated in the original budget (the 316 plus the 84 of the negative settlement we discount). For better understanding, in the 2018 budget, the estimate error was EUR 400 million. Is it a mistake, counselor, or is it a policy premeditated to cut down the spending ceiling? And there's a very negative element -- it's said here -- which is worrying. Because own income remains stagnant, while revenue from the financing system increases by 4% and finalist transfers by 5%. What's the reason they're stuck? For there are tax reductions on inheritance taxes and, above all, on property taxes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u243	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u244	It is said in the document that the collection of wealth tax, the tax that taxes the income of the wealthiest, will reduce their collection by 13%, as a result of the Government's decision to reduce the rate in that tax. It's just the opposite of what we need. We need to increase expenditure significantly over GDP growth and to do so as quickly as possible, with three objectives: to recover from the severest cuts in compulsive austerity, to improve well-being and to combat economic downturn. I'm done. We will vote against this expenditure ceiling. Even more, what we want is to override the spending rule...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u245	Thank you, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u246	...and the expenditure ceiling, free us from the strength shirt of austerity, so that economic growth really serves to improve the well-being of citizenship.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u247	Thank you very much, Mr. Lago. On behalf of the Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Fernández Leiceaga has the floor for a period of ten minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u248	Good morning, this early hours. Allow me, Counselor, to make a humorous entry and sum up what is the core of your intervention, like others that have been in this Parliament these days. Article 1 : Spain is wrong. Article 2: Galicia is doing very well, but if something goes wrong in Galicia, apply the article first. No, but one missing, one missing. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Article 3 — and it is important, because you said it exactly: Galicia, in any case, is the same as the rest of Spain. [[Applause]] And that's the most disconcerting thing you're saying. Of course, the problem is that the speech they've mounted doesn't correspond to anything that the statistics reflect. Mr. Feijóo said this morning that all the evils of industrial politics came from the arrival of Pedro Sánchez to Moncloa. I went to see EPA data and EPA data indicate that between the second quarter of 2009, Mr Feijóo entered, and the second quarter of 2018, when Mr Rajoy left the Government Presidency in Galicia in the industrial sector, 30,000 jobs were lost, which is, as someone said, about one in three industrial jobs that were lost in Spain at the same time. And from the second quarter of 2018 to the latest data because Galicia has won nine-ten thousand jobs. Then, of course, all this, with this so catastrophic speech that Mr. Feijóo does, he hardly pity himself. And we have this problem with the data you handle. If we're not even able to agree on the basics, it's hard to discuss, especially when, as with the document they send us to the House, it's a much less transparent document than in previous years, which makes it very difficult to discuss. You do some voodoo economy. Bring us the Xacobeo collation... I'm not against the Xacobeo, quite the opposite, eh! It seems to me that this is a very relevant event for the Galician ensemble and, essentially, for sectors of our most rural geography, where it gives life to their economy, their society, it allows to generate jobs, businesses, also for the city of Santiago and for the Galician ensemble. What is more of a voodoo economy is thinking that an event in the year 2021 will generate these magical effects on the year 2020. That's where it's hard for me to argue on that basis. Yes, I know that forecasts are important in economics, but both to mobilize it as a fundamental element because I don't see why. Let's go at any rate to the matter of substance. We are supporters — as I have said here many times — that there is a ceiling for spending. I don't share the idea that the spending ceiling is a corset. The spending ceiling can be much more loose, you can have a big size or have a small size, that depends on the choice of governments. The only thing that requires is that if you want a large size you have to act on those elements that you have, basically tax items, to get stable and healthy finances. And that's what this is about. And at the same time, because you have some leaves that allow you to use indebtedness depending on the position on the cycle to get there where with your own income at a given time it is not possible or desirable to do so. I already know here in these years that I have defended a more flexible management of the expenditure ceiling, as, of course, it does the European Union from 2015 onwards and the president of the European Commission, the Merkel Party itself, undertakes to review in his mandate, which I think is very reasonable; or I also defended here that it was necessary to withdraw from the cost rule certain investments just to allow more resources to be mobilized and modernized the economy. I don't know if the position of the Galician Union is to be there today or not. Moreover, I don't know if the Galician Board really defends the 2011 Stability Act because, when we had the debate on surplus, it said that the article of that law regulating the use of surplus should not be applied and now it turns out that the articles that talk about how the magnitudes are set on which to discuss are not applied either. So do we have the stability regulation suspended or is it still being applied? It would be nice to know, because that would tell us... that I am in favour of making a thorough review of both Europeans, Spanishs and Welshs, a review that allows, among other things, to adjust to our model, which is substantially federal, all these forecasts about delivery to account and others to make them much more automatic. I think we'd have a chance in the next legislation. Let's do it if possible. Where I disagree with the Galician board is in relation to the concrete determination of the expenditure ceiling, which is a different matter. Other autonomous communities are doing the same thing as you; not so many medals are put on. Because Navarra, where there's a change of government, is doing exactly the same. Turns out Castela-La Mancha is doing something similar. Whaleers is doing it too. There are other communities that are acting normally, and I think it's all right. I didn't expect the Galician Union to do anything else. The election year, the year 2020, is going to renounce a powerful instrument of electoral action as is the budget? Of course not. The budget will, among other things, have an electoral function. That's why I, from the beginning, said there was going to be a ceiling and there would be a budget, because you're not going to give up that. Okay. I disagree — I think my group already knows — is how the calculation of the expenditure ceiling is done. [[Applause]] I explained it the other day publicly: it's extremely ambitious about what depends on another person and it's rarely ambitious on what depends on one. And I think that's not a good behavior, just because we have uncertainties. Last year — and said several times — by applying the precautionary approach, I am going — I say you — to the forecasts of the Montoro Minister. Minister Montero had passed by the other Congress, passed the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, and you said, "It's not good for me, Mr. Montoro's, because they're the only ones that are fully vigilant. Those forecasts for this year don't give the figures you're collecting here, they give other less generous figures: 0% of deficit instead of 0.1%, a nominal GDP reference rate and therefore application of the more restrictive spending rule and an exigencies in terms of total debt volume which is more restrictive also than the one you apply. Therefore, application in the year 2019 of the Montoro rule. But this year you take the Montero rule, because it's more interesting to you. And you have to explain why. Now it turns out that the prudent is this? Because it's the one that's alive; it's more, it's the one that's applying the rest of the autonomous communities, they're applying the Montoro rule too, just because they're prudent. And that's what I would ask of you, in a context of uncertainty, where we have elections, and not instability; we have elections within a month and we don't know what that result will be; you know perfectly well that, in case I win Mr. Sánchez, as it is predictable, and can form a government, for there will be an application of Mrs. Montero's rules. But if not, can you assure me that a pact of Mr. Married to Vox and Mr. Rivera will allow the rules to be what you use for these budget forecasts? I'm sure if you could come up here and say what you think, because you wouldn't. The threat is right where this happens. That is why you make a change that has shocked me, and the change is: I will remove from what I subject to Parliament the possibility of adjusting the figures afterwards. That's gone this year, and yet it's all over the previous years. And there's a second reason, and the second reason has to do with your own income policy; something has already been said, but I do not want to stop repeating it. It seems to us that their income policy is a restrictive policy, regressive in social terms, and that it does not favor investment and employment. They've given a lot of figures, I'll give another one. In 2020, what you anticipate in your macroeconomic framework is an increase in employment of 0.8%, i.e. around nine thousand jobs; that is what you are telling us by 2020. Well, that reinforces the structural anomaly that the Greek economy has, which is the inability, as it has been remembered before, to generate jobs, at least with the same volume as the Spanish economy. And about that, not only do you say nothing, but they look elsewhere, they don't think it's a problem, because they apply the second article in this case. Galicia is doing very well — that is the second article — and then, as Galicia is doing very well, nothing has to be changed. And there's no need to change anything about fiscal policy, and I'm asking them for a greater effort; we've been asking them for it in all these budgets. When they reduce wealth tax, when they're applying an extremely generous succession tax to those who have the most to transmit, they're giving a negative result in terms of social balance...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u249	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u250	...are increasing social inequalities, but, on the other hand, they are unable to transfer this to the greatest growth. Because that doesn't work on growth, it acts on family savings, it doesn't act on investment. And, despite what Mr. President says, we have a serious investment deficit in Galicia in relation to family savings, and that doesn't correct this spending ceiling or I can see that you intend to correct it. That is why — and finally, Mr President — we are going to vote against the figures proposed to us, although we are in favour of a regulation of budgetary stability and financial sustainability that promotes balance in public accounts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u251	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u252	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is, I don't know whether to say good morning or good afternoon; in any case, say hello to all of you. The opposition centred its criticisms of the spending ceiling in the last three days. One first, which I think today has already been a little obvious after demanding that we present the budget when there was evidence of the difficulty of presenting this text, and during the last few days we even heard that bringing the spending ceiling was a partisan operation; today fortunately this criticism is discarded. Secondly, a criticism not of today's expenditure ceiling, but of the figure of the expenditure ceiling; this, essentially, of the Mixed Groups, the Block and the Joint Left Group. And finally, we also heard some criticisms about the composition of the expenditure ceiling. I, of course, believe that there is merit in bringing here the expenditure ceiling, I believe that the situation of uncertainty is total, there is no news of the deliveries on account, there is no news of the government's forecast of macroeconomic evolution, which, of course, in this just a few months before the summer, was saying that the economy would grow further, that it would increase the rate of growth forecast for the economy this year, and now it's just doing the opposite, which is going to fall with respect to the originally planned 2.2%. There's certainly uncertainty about how the State Government works with deliveries on its own, about the experience we're having with the 330 million deliveries on its account, about the 200 million people that were promised VlV a year ago and that have not yet been paid off and, of course, with the compensations to fulfilling communities. But objectively, the fact is that there are communities that take the step forward and others do not, and I think we are actually on the right side, which is to take the step forward and bring to this plenary today, to the only full that is before the deadline for the presentation of budgets, which is the 20th day, to this House, the ceiling of expenditure. By the way, something that has not been done in the State for a long time and in virtually no autonomous Parliament, because here we actually bring this as proof of transparency. Well, I don't know if you've improved the situation today, because you'll know that this morning in a program, that of Ana Rosa Quintana, the president-in-Office of the Government announced that they've already found the legal mechanism to make deliveries. We started with what they were going to be last month, in September, but they were looking for the formula; after that they were said to keep looking for the formula and, in a rally, they said that probably before November 10, and this morning, not in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council — which is the normal place — of course in a place with a lot more audience, they said that the Government had already found the mechanism to transfer these accounts. [[Applause]] In this context, I would like to congratulate the Government on bringing the spending ceiling. [[Murmurs.]] The second criticism has to do with the existence of the expenditure ceiling: corse, derogation from the expenditure ceiling... we have just heard in one part of the opposition — and, on the other hand, we hear a defense of the expenditure ceiling and if at least a criticism of stylism over the sizes—which wants to override the expenditure ceiling, and another one wants to keep it, even though it does not share exactly the expenditure ceiling that is presented today. Obviously, we are in favour of the spending ceiling. This is not a neoliberal position, it is quite the opposite, is the synthesis of the commitment between the neoclassical-Keynesian doctrine that has been achieved in Europe, which allows in times of crisis to spend more than it enters and the exchange demands in times of kindness to go down deficits in order to be able to cope with the crisis in the future without having a too heavy burden of debt on the back, which was what happened until these kinds of rules were adopted, much more reasonable in the context of a single currency, and which obviously require — and that is what we are some — a further advance on the budgetary issue. The truth is that those countries that today many of them define as the example to the left, such as Portugal, among other things, can look at the results they achieve, because they were the students who were advantaged in meeting the standards of spending. In spite of that, of course, there was no intervention in Spain. In Portugal they are still paying for the doctor, he continues to pay when he travels by the highways, and of course he still meets the deficit rules, even above what he is doing in Spain; hence also the risk premium today is for the first time lower in Portugal than in Spain. For, indeed, we believe that these rules are the ones that have saved many European countries from cracking down, they are the rules that have enabled many autonomous communities — not Galicia — to be saved — and they are the rules that allow us to safeguard — which is the ultimate objective of these rules — the sustainability of public services, the sustainability of the welfare state. And the best proof is what's the evolution of the spending ceiling in recent years. The maximum non-financial expenditure of the Union was the 2009 budget, 10,581 million. The year 2009 is always compared when budgetary figures are made and they are systematically forgotten — I don't know why — but of these 10,581 million, 1,600 million have been owed and we are paying it every year, as a result of the negative liquidations. Therefore, in any comparison of expenditure that implies that in an budget there are EUR 1,500 million I would be very careful, Mr. Lago, because you are not aware that we are paying part of that spending ceiling of the year 2009 even now and we are going to have to keep paying it in coming years? Well, the fact is, since that ceiling -- this year it's 10,160 million -- it's a simple discount operation, and considering that this year there's only debt, because it makes us understand that this is the first widest spending ceiling in Galicia without leaving a poof ahead and without leaving any kind of problem to the coming government. The lowest was 2015, 8.400 million. That is, since 2015, thanks to the recovery and reform that has been done in the Galician production structure, we're talking about a ceiling of more than 1,700 million euros. So I contrast, first, that the expenditure ceiling is necessary, and second, I think it is very important that once again on such an important subject there is a group of opposition — the Socialist Group — that defends the expenditure ceiling and the rest of the left is against the expenditure ceiling, which would certainly wish for quite interesting government fights. The third criticism is that of the composition of the expenditure ceiling. It has been said today again that it is generous as to the deliveries to account and extremely restrictive in the income of its own management. Well, first of all, I want to say that the growth estimate is below what Airef expects for this period, which predicts increases in the IRPF and VAT of 5%, and on the expenditure ceiling it contains 3.5%, and reflect, in fact, the downward trend of the collection, due to the economic downturn. Secondly, you forget that next year there will be positive liquidations. Once the 85 million we continue to pay from the years 2008 and 2009, around 300 million euros, that the tax yielded has a magnitude similar to this year, and there are two reasons why the deliveries to the account grow more than the taxes managed from Galicia. The first is that last year's health cent was still collected by the Galician board in the last quarter — we are talking about about around EUR 20 million — and this year 2020 will come in the deliveries to the account; therefore, there is already a gap of EUR 40 million, which is simply justified by the centralization of that tribute, as a result of a Community judgment. And secondly, there are taxes actually in which their collection falls; one of them is that of atmospheric pollution; perhaps, if we go to Meirama, we know why that tax will collect less. Finally, the state's finalist incomes why do they grow? Because there are agreements at sectoral conferences, so that if, for example, employment resources are managed well, the resources that the State gives rise; if more dependents are given, the minimum level also rises; or if there is a good execution in the EAFRD funds, that execution implies more co-financing on the part of the State. With regard to debt, I am on debt the only thing I want to say — because there was a lot of talk here — is that there is practically no debt on the expenditure ceiling; in the stage of execution even we have reached the surplus; this year there were investments as a result of the surplus, and therefore the subject of indebtedness is practically witnessing. We are going as far as the Government of Spain and Europe is concerned, because of the deficit scenario and the forecast that Europe is sending to the socialist government. All right. What I think is very incoherent is, on the one hand, criticizing the indebtedness in Galicia. Mr. Lago, we would have much more if we had accepted the AGE amendments — and you were in AGE advising — which were presented to us every year amended to raise public debt, more than a billion more; above, if we were on the average of the state, it would be 3,500 million more. To criticize Joine for her debt, I don't know if she's been criticized because she's been little indebted, because she's been little ambitious or because she's been very indebted, but it gives me the feeling that in this matter you have a lot of confusion. In short, the opposition is very divided with the figure of the expenditure ceiling; it is not always rigorous with respect to the figures. And the Government I believe that it presents with rigour, with the same rigor as it has been for ten years, fulfilling all the rules of expenditure, a ceiling of expenditure which, simply because of the inconsistencies of criticism, would already deserve to be voted on, but it is that, in addition, it has advantages, which logically leads us to support it. Firstly, because there are 3.1 % of the resources: 300 million euros. We exceed 10 billion euros without leaving anything to be owed for the first time in history, with no financial bubble or real estate behind. Indeed, unemployment is down to around 10%, and one day, because we have to talk and agree, we're going to see if we stop using what is unemployment — which has decreased in relation to when we get to the government — of what is the occupied population, which is what has fallen since we arrived in the government, as a result of a demographic crisis; it's different things. What's wrong...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u253	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u254	...it's saying that employment has been destroyed, because there's less active population, but instead, when we say that we have the highest per capita GDP in Spain's history, in convergence with Spain, to say that this is about demography. We must use the terms — I believe — in their fair terms. [[Applause]] There's a growth above the clear eurozone, despite slowing down. It's a realistic, prudent spending ceiling, suitable for new circumstances, political uncertainty...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u255	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u256	...the opposite decisions of the Socialist Government towards Galicia and the international context of trade war. So we are going to vote that yes, confirming that in Galicia there is stability, if there is democratic normality, as these debates show, and if things are done well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Voting of the expenditure limit
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u257	Thank you, Mr. Puy. We therefore proceed to the vote. Close the doors, please. We vote. Vote on the ceiling on non-financial expenditure of the general budgets of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2020 in accordance with Article 12 of Law 2/2011 of 16 June 2011 on budgetary discipline and financial sustainability. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The maximum financial expenditure limit for general budgets for the Autonomous Community of Galicia by 2020 is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u258	We suspended the meeting until 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u259	Good afternoon. Let's resume the session with an interpellation. Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the performances to be carried out by the Galego Health Service in connection with the concert signed with Povervisa to ensure quality health care for the population it has adscribed
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u260	To formulate this interpellation you have the floor to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u261	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor, and very late to the workers and workers of Povervisa who today are in the guest gallery following this interrogation. They're in the guest gallery, Counsellor, because a few days ago we had news, through the media -- and I insist on the "through the media" -- from the sale of the Povisa hospital to the Ribera Health Group; an acquisition that is causing enormous concern about the grave consequences that can have for the Welsh health, especially for Vigo's health. We are faced with a matter of enormous importance, which you had to ask to come to this Parliament to take account of and explain the situation, and not only did you not do so, but you have hardly spoken. By the media we know that he called at a meeting the leaders of Povervisa and Ribera Saúde and asked them to be good; that's basically the summary. They didn't act and they're doing as if we were selling a couple of chairs, as if we were in front of a minute, when, of course, it's not a minute or a simple transaction between privates without more; it's not a sale because Povervisa is the largest private hospital, not only in Galicia, but in the Spanish state, which has a concert with the Public Administration, with public health. It's a private hospital that lives in public health. Eighty percent of their billing is on account of the taxes of the Greeks and the Greeks, almost 1 in every 8 euros that bill the Povervisa comes from the taxes of the Greeks and the Greeks; with which, it seems to us of relevance enough to get the Government of our country to receive in time and form workers and to bother giving information. It's about the sale of a hospital with which Sergas, the public health care, has agreed on the hospital health benefit for, at the moment, 135,000 neighbors and neighbors of Vigo's health area and where nearly 1,400 workers work. It's the concert, as I told you earlier, more expensive than Galicia, but the state; a concert renewed in September 2014 and by which it pays that hospital attention to the neighborhoods of the municipalities of Cangas, Moaña, Nigrán, Baiona, Gondomar and to an important part of the municipality of Vigo, and a concert which at the time of signing, in 2014, 600,480 euros plus IVE, for a period of eight years, from 2014 to 2022; i.e., more than 75 million euros a year, IVE aside. This concert was renegotiated -- let's call it that -- a year ago on the rise. A year ago the company Povvisa reported that it was in foreclosure of creditors, claiming losses, as they said, caused by the last concert signed in 2014. The Junta - and you as the most responsible - has come to rescue the people by renegotiating that we still do not know the details - as we do not know the entire content of the concert, despite having requested it by article 9 on several occasions since the Nationalist Block Galego, but the People's Party passes through where it seems to us that we have the right to have that information - and a renegotiation which, according to the calculations of the Board of Auditors, is an average of 4 million more a year. And when it all seemed like it couldn't get any worse, it turns out that in July 2019 we had knowledge of a communication from Povervisa that referred to as part of the objectives that the company had set up at the beginning of 2019, point 1: "Reducing all performances, consultations, tests and interventions in Sergas patients that don't bring any added value, and taking advantage of this release of resources to further improve the response time for private patients." This is textual of the communication that Sergas' manager sent to Povervisa managers. These objectives that mark the company, once known and put in writing, should have caused, at least, a joint investigation by the Council, Mr. Almuña, because we are, of course, before an alarm more than justified. A company that has to provide health care to 135,000 patients says that there is a need to reduce this benefit in order to allocate those resources and that time to private patients. And he didn't do anything, he didn't do anything at all, just as he would have to have acted in the face of the constant violation of the labour rights of his staff, the staff of Povervisa, who have been suffering for years, who have had a frozen agreement for almost ten years, that they haven't been paid salary increases and if they've had daily reductions in almost all the collectives -- of course, I'm convinced that they haven't agreed on hundreds of workers and workers to ask for a reduction in days, but it's mandatory -- with timetables in which the staff is reduced to minimum and with more than a hundred workers and workers laid off in recent years. And to this you have to add that you don't control what Povervisa does with the money we're giving him for the concert, that they have to go to finance public health. There are more than reasonable doubts that it uses the same staff to provide public health care than private health care, that technological innovation that leads to the prosecution of the competition and that improvements in the infrastructure it has made them charge the concert. In front of that, far from acting, to ensure the proper use of public resources, the People's Party in the Health Council, and with you in front, Mr. Almuínña, what you did was that all the decisions made were in the direction of conditioning Vigo's health area so that Povervisa was and continues to be indispensable: they reduced the beds of the new hospital, the services, the services, the services, to have to continue depending on Povvisa... And with these last performances they went up the bet, with these last acts of renegotiating the agreement, the concert, sending him more money, looking elsewhere while they knew they were spending money from the public to the private, you were really doing it was capitalizing the people for better and for more to sell. They've been, with public money, helping the company, not improving the quality of care, but selling it better. That's what they've been doing since the People's Party. [[Applause]] You have not only facilitated this private health at the expense of an integral health care in Vigo's health area, with a concert always characterized by opacity, darkness, lack of transparency, but now doubling the bet and it is no longer that they favor a local businessman with public money, but rather that they are the great introducers of the multinationals of private health in our country. Just as they acted throughout the whole time of the concert, now this sale is equal to opaque; a policy of consummated facts. I insist that the workers and workers, who don't get out of their surprise, just like we don't get out of thousands of people, that we haven't just figured out how it's possible that with all the problems in Povervisa, with all the clashes, it turns out that we'll now understand by the media that it seems to be sold for 24 million euros. They do the same thing again as they did with the boxes, give them at the balance price, and in this case they're allowing a company to provide an important part of Vigo's health at the balance price. And how is it possible that for 24 million euros or Sergas does not buy an essential hospital to provide health care in the Vigo area? There's no one who can understand it unless it's because their goal is precisely that: that they care little about the quality of care and the rights of workers and workers. [[Applause]] For the only thing they're here is to sell the country at the balance price to multinationals, which is what they're doing. And who do they sell it to? Because Ribera Saúde, a company driven by Eduardo Zaplana in 1997 from the Valencian Generalitat -- yes, that Zaplana of widespread corruption -- to implement the neoliberal strategy of the People's Party in public health. When Alberto Núñez Fexóo was the general secretary of health care of the Ministry of Health and Consumption, being minister Romay Becaría - they brought things together, didn't they? - they launched this so-called model of public-private collaboration, which is the health model of the People's Party. Ribera Saúde, therefore, is the company of the public-private partnership privatization model of the People's Party. It's the company of the Alcira model, to which the People's Party was soon suing for health administration agreements conveniently. It's a company investigated after UDEF's complaint of prevarication crimes, of misrepresentation of public caudas, of commissioning illegal on orthopedic prostheses or pacemaker; it's a company sanctioned by the Health Council for distributing drugs without authorization and now it's in the hands of a multinational based in Missouri. You are allowing an important part of Welsh health to pass by the hands of a multinational based in Missouri and therefore Povervisa has been sold to a multinational dedicated for years to trade with the health of the population.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u262	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u263	The People's Party acted so that the construction of Vigo's new hospital would not meet the needs of the population and now acts to facilitate the sale of a multinational. And the questions, Counsellor, are: how far will he get to deliver public health to a multinational, or Vigo's health? How can it be that in a sale of this size you practically don't say nothing? How could it be that 24 million euros didn't make the decision to buy this hospital to join the public network? What's the reason not to have ended with the anomaly that almost half of the population of Vigo's health area...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u264	Thank you, Mrs. Prado, your time is up. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u265	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, workers and workers at the Povisa hospital. Mrs. Prado, the truth is, I think you have a mentally difficult to understand, really. This intervention shows the lack of clarity of ideas that you and your group have. [[Murmurs.]] But, look, we're really going to talk about data, because if we don't, we're lost in this kind of philosophy that has no concretion at all, in four mitigating phrases and a little more. We, of course, deal with a lot of responsibility -- and we say it from the very first moment -- something that is very important, which is the health care of an area of Galicia, a very important part of Galicia, and we are also concerned about the workers -- great workers, which I know well, by the truth -- of the Povisa hospital, of Vigo. It is a concert which, as the honourable Member has said, was formalised in September 2014 and which has a period of eight years. It's a novice concert, on a capital basis, that is, by assigning the concrete population with a payout for the specific population it has, and in addition the services provided by Povervisa to patients in Sergas or outside the assigned population or that are done by other public centers to Povervisa patients have a different billing and that has no influence over each other. The difference in previous concerts, the first significant fact that we should highlight is that in this concert, as we say, the population can freely choose where they want to receive health care in the area of Vigo. I think this is very important. It's the first time it's happened, and I know that some of the platforms that they now defend the workers of Povervisa campaigned to get people out of Povervisa; with which, a concert dependent on activity, logically, would be the closure of Povervisa. The population doesn't seem to have paid much attention because there's a very important stability between people who want to be in the Povervisa area and those who want to be in the rest of the Vigo Hospital Complex. As I say, first, the choice; people can choose perfectly. And right now, there are about 135,000 people who freely chose to continue there. But I want to remember that the Povervisa concert is not a new concert in 1991 — when the transfers were made — there was already a concert in force that dates back to 1976; therefore, for 43 years, Povervisa has concerts with public health in that area. We've managed to do a hospital billing, later through processes, and, as I say, now per capita; with which, we're evolving into a model far more modern and conform to the needs of citizens. In 1993, and after the transfers, the first Sergas concert, which was replaced by another one in 1996, was signed; and this concert remained in force until the formalization in December of another new one, which was in 2009. This concert had an initial eight-year vigil, with the possibility of annual extensions. In fact, it continued to be extended by annual periods until September 2014, when we said we had done the new concert that had these new clauses, I think it's very important to improve the services to citizens. But in 2006 — by the way, the Socialist Party and the Galego Nationalist Block — signed a document called the Basic Health Agreement in the Vigo Health Area, which was signed by the Health Council, the general secretaries of the UXT trade unions, the Labour Commissions and CIG, the Confederation of Galician Entrepreneurs, the University of Vigo and Povisa. The aim of this agreement was to ensure employment in the health sector in the district of Vigo, both in the public and in private areas, and to provide special concerted assistance from what could be affected by the changes operated as a result of the construction process of the new University Hospital of Vigo. It was therefore an agreement that had as its objective the maintenance of the activity of the active concert to maintain the existing jobs—what a difference, as Mrs Prado has just said!—. At that time the Bipartite, the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block could have made a perfectly different decision — which they now say is feasible — but they have not made it. It's also true that at that time they said they were going to do a public hospital, and the only thing we know there were the infographics of the public hospital, but it seems that they didn't have any clarity either. I would also like to point out that this new concert leads for the first time to the signing of a management agreement — that is, there is a concert and then a management agreement — where there are marked by assistance objectives that are verified at all times: compliance with the waiting list objectives, quality in the pharmaceutical supply and other objectives such as quality, security and information systems strategic lines. They follow a line similar to public hospitals because the population for us is a population, logically, of the same Sergas and therefore has to have the same conditions. And there's an assessment, a continuous follow-up by the agency. And even parallel to that, you can also carry out specific audits or reviews by the Inspectorate. I have to say that since this ADX system is here, there's a fulfillment of targeted targets around 90%. I'm saying 90%, and that means there's 10% that's not met and so it's not paid. I would like to point out that, thanks to the coordination effort, of course, of the workers of Povervisa -- great workers, professionals with a lot of experience -- we passed on a list of surgical waiting that was in 2014 from 171 days to the last of December 2018, which is 71.6 days; that is, 100 days less. So this concert seems to benefit from improving health care for the population. The change made in 2019 at the live concert is motivated by the review carried out following the situation presented by Povisa in 2018, which threatened the viability of the center and hence its jobs. And here you said you came to save the Povervisa. No, what's coming is to improve health care and, of course, to do and maintain the work of the people who were at that time exercising, and they're still practicing, the activity with us. I think it was fundamental. But it is true that the position that BNG can have is complicated because the Socialist Party of Vigo demands precisely that the financing of Povervisa be increased at that time, and continues to say so at present. Looks like the Block wants something else, it's that this hospital falls and, of course, it has very serious consequences for attention. So if, at some point, there are elections and they're going to rule together, it would be interesting if they could explain to the workers of Povervisa and to the patients in the health area which is the goal they're going to have in the health area of Vigo. What is it?, what does the Socialist Party say or what does it say to any of the other parties like, in this case, the Galician Nationalist Block? Obviously, if Povervisa and Sergas reached an agreement at that time of this reorganization with a sale or a concert -- it's a sale, not a rescue of anything, we're not talking about banks, we're talking about something else -- an additional third clause, because obviously the health situation and also the workers of Povervisa would be very different. But it's curious because here for the first time a paragraph appears that says there is a particular interest in the issue of the maintenance of the labour force. And he says, "It remains of interest for both sides to try to find solutions at the moment that they can allow to maintain the employment level of Povervisa, betting on a stable and quality job and ensuring for that the levels of activity needed only the maintenance of a concert can ensure." I think the Block will agree with us in defending this kind of addiction that can improve this situation. And for all that, as I say, January 1, 2019, there has been a change in certain provisions of the concert with the twofold objective of further improving the quality of care and, at the same time, maintaining a quality and stable job for all workers. These changes are mainly in assuming by the Galego Health Service the cost of hospital medicine and outpatient dispensation for external patients, in the same way that is being done with the medication dispensed through pharmacy offices, by working to establish the corresponding mechanisms of collaboration to facilitate the possibility of the Povisa hospital to benefit from the economic conditions in the purchase of products, by giving a solution to the financing of the postgraduate teaching role linked to the MIR system, by providing mixed funding Povisa-Sergas and by incorporating the possibility of carrying out planned activities of medical, or surgical processes, or diagnostic and therapeutic tests for patients included in the waiting lists of Vigo's EOXI. Of course, all of this compensated for the capita's fall, which is one of the main objectives. Therefore, since the Health Council and since the Galician Council, we have been following these two objectives that have not changed over the course of time, which are, on the one hand, maintaining the quality of the health service - that is an excellent level of quality that is achieved with these very good professionals - and on the other hand, the maintenance of employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u266	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u267	Do you think that with the level of concern that workers and workers have, you can come here to make a history and not to answer the questions you have in writing or to what I have asked you? And you're now trying to say that with that commitment to the concert they set clauses. No, look, it's just that you already had instruments to act on since the concert was signed in 2014, and we've already asked the BNG, in this Parliament, to comply with them, which is that in the second provision of health benefits of the concert, it said, "Porvisa is obliged to follow and comply with all the rules, instructions, programmes and organizational criteria established by Sergas concerning public services in the object of this concert. He must also fulfill them, as in his own centres." That's what you guys already had in writing, and they've been looking all the time somewhere else. He didn't worry about the violation of continuous labour rights to workers and workers in Povervisa, he only cared about Silveira's results. Of course, this morning there was a meeting -- in which you haven't been, although in the press it says yes -- of the manager of Sergas with the workers of Povervisa where he ensures that his concern is going to be the maintenance of jobs and the quality of care. And the question we're asking is, what visas that this can be verified are we having been looking back for years and not watching that this has been fulfilled? They couldn't do it with a company located in Vigo, with strong ties with relevant members of the People's Party such as Rocío Mosquera, who worked in the group; the manager, at this moment, of Povervisa, who was previously in Galaria; the current manager of the EOXI de Vigo, who also passed through Povervisa, and even you, Mr. Almuigna, worked in Povervisa. I mean, if with all those ties they weren't able to get Povervisa to fulfill what was established in the concerts, what minimum credibility do you have to tell them that they're going to enforce a multinational that has its headquarters in Missouri? Do you think we can be quiet, neither the workers nor the workers, nor any Germans and the Greeks, so you can say if you haven't done anything at all to get Povervisa to do it? [[Applause]] Of course, what we are is highly worried about. BNG strongly rejects this clearly speculative operation that compromises the right to an essential public service such as health. Therefore, what we are asking you today, Mr Almuña, is that you proceed to work to directly absorb the management of this hospital, to begin the managements for Povisa to become part of Sergas. There's little less than three years left to finish this concert. What we ask you from BNG is that you get to work, that at the end of this concert they can be absorbed and that you don't continue in this situation, that you actually act as a guarantor of the quality of care and population and that you keep an eye on the maintenance of jobs and the labor rights of workers and workers while that doesn't occur. And we also ask you to do once and for all an external and credible audit of how you've been investing Povervisa money, public money. What have you been meant for? It's necessary to know how they were using that money, because you had more than enough opportunities to go back to the public system, to get that hospital through the continued non-compliance of Povervisa with health care and with workers and workers; if they didn't, it was because they didn't want it. They're in time to rectify and do it. Of course, they will face the BNG, together with all the people who defend public health and quality, and to a very important part of the workers and workers, demanding that integration into an essential hospital to provide health care to almost half the population of Vigo's health area, and that it be public. We say it here and we sign it where we need it. This is BNG's engagement. Our decision and determination — and of course, we will work tirelessly to do so — is that this hospital becomes part of the public network to ensure the working situation of workers and workers and to guarantee them once and for all a quality of care. That's so clear and so sharp we tell you here today, Mr. Almuña. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u268	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the closure of this inquiry, Mr. Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u269	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Prado, clear and clear. He'll tell me he'll tell me if he'll rule you in a few months, when the Socialist Party clearly said already yesterday that he didn't want to do what the Block wants to do. Tell me if that means they won't rule together. You can explain. But, look, it was a shame, in addition, that she had woken up so late. They had four years to be able to do it and they didn't want to do it. Right now what could be a future partner says he won't. So I think your credibility and your group's credibility in this aspect is quite touched. That's right. Look, from the very first moment on, our concerns -- not from now on, as I say, many years ago -- are precisely the maintenance of levels of quality care. He's working, he's giving a health service to a very important population, 137,000 or 135,000, depending on the year, inhabitants of the Vigo area. And employment for us is also fundamental. As I say, the template that is currently in Povervisa is necessary to give the quality levels it is giving. But we agreed with part of the opposition, and the majority group exactly seems to have as argumentary what the Health Council said from the very first moment, which is this, which is the two basic pillars. Of course, there's an operation from two companies, because here it says we sell a company. Sergas didn't sell any company. Here are two companies that negotiate and come to an agreement. So we don't go in that part. In other types of economies like Venezuela, and so it is possible to act differently; not here, companies can negotiate. Now there's a concert, there's an agreement they have to respect. We're going to demand respect to the end. And, as I say, for us this is fundamental. The company that comes in is a health company, which gives us confidence. Before the Silveira family there were other entrepreneurs who created Povervisa; that is, this is going from health-related entrepreneurs -- they were originally traumatology specialists, gynecology and others who formed the first Povervisa -- because this is an American-based health company, but it has a very important base in Spain, Valencia, Madrid and now also in Galicia, but also in Europe. So we believe that they can develop a good job and that we have to give them that trust, with the surveillance that we've always had on Povervisa. It's a company that has a very important activity in 32 American states at the moment, but it's going to be more, it's growing, and it's not a financial fund, but it's coming to do what they know how to do, which is health. If they do it well... we will, of course, be vigilant at all times. As we have already said, the concert with Sergas continues to take place until 2022, so we will continue to demand compliance under agreed and agreed terms. So our commitment to the maintenance of jobs is firm and clear, as well as the guarantee of quality of care, for which we introduced additional quality controls and indicators at the last concert. The results of the waiting list, for example, are something we can put on the table about that improvement. But there is another value that also, as I said, is what the patients, the citizens of that area, give, it seems, mostly approved, because the changes are greatly reduced during this vigil. Today it seems that this process has succeeded, that the workers, when we speak of that reversal, can pass on to Sergas, who is what BNG calls for. He also did so in the Valencian Community, a health adviser who is no longer in office after that, but who is now not a minister or adviser. Well, right now he's created a huge problem with the workers. They're at a moment of total instability because they're theoretically extinguishing squares, which have no additional rights and therefore create a problem for the workers. That's on the table right now. Assistably, the Alcira area has clearly worsened and has much bigger waiting lists. Of course, we want to try to continue to meet those fundamental criteria. I mean, we're going to continue defending the 365 days of the year these two piers. Of course, I think it's very serious that you say I wasn't at the meeting today. People's unions were called in an hour and then couldn't be, there was a delay, but we had a meeting that I started by greeting and saying the fundamental goals and followed the members of the management team until about noon. I think we're people who talk, people who try to solve and, of course, I think both the population of the area of Povervisa and the workers have a lot more confidence in what we've been doing since the Council than in what some political group does. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u270	Thank you, Counselor. Institutional declaration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u271	I'm now reading them a statement that brings the groups to me, when I've reached an agreement on the public pension system, and that says: "The Galician Parliament considers that the public pension system is the main instrument of welfare and social protection in both Galicia and the rest of the state. First of all, because it gives coverage, essentially, to older people, although it also protects other continences such as disability, widowhood and orphanage. In all cases it protects people who hardly have alternatives to income other than pension. They are therefore vulnerable people who have in the public pension system the guarantee of income to live a decent life. Secondly, because no other protection system covers such a large number of people, so that they have a budget far higher than the rest of social protection instruments. It is now and it will be more in the immediate future, because the longer life expectancy increases the number of older people, especially in societies like Galicia, who combine this process with a demographic regression which results in an increase in the relative weight of older people. Some figures prove it. In Galicia there are 339,459 women and 338,767 pensioners in different modalities and regimes. Summaries are 678,226 people in total; a figure that, compared to the total population of Galicia, shows its extraordinary relevance: 25% of the 2.7 million people living in our country are pensioners. In other words, one out of four people in Galicia has in the pension their main source of income, hence the huge role of social cohesion that played by the public pension system in the last economic recession; an economic and social weight that is still higher in the less developed and older provinces, because in place pensioners are 30% of the total population and reach 31% in Ourense. The economic impact of pensions is very significant in our country because the monthly pension payroll in Galicia exceeds EUR 637 million and therefore the disbursement of the public pension system is in the autonomous community of EUR 9 billion each year. The Galician Parliament considers that the defence of the public pension system must be an absolute priority for the Greek society, with its institutions ahead, and it defends the system and people, because the economic crisis has changed both the conditions of access to pensions and its contents. The Galician Parliament believes that the necessary financial balance of the system cannot be sought by reducing the number of pensions which, in many cases, are already low, especially in our country. In September 2019, the average pension is EUR 848 per month, a low figure but still hides very worrying realities, such as whether the widow's pension's pension is EUR 601 or whether the average pension in the autonomous scheme is EUR 597 per month. These are amounts that can no longer be reduced, so the Galician Parliament is of the opinion that the annual revaluation mechanism should ensure that pensions do not lose purchasing power, taking the IPC as a trunk reference. While the purchasing power of the system as a whole is guaranteed, it is necessary to improve the content of minimum pensions, a matter of particular relevance to our country, since 30% of pensioners in Galicia charge of minimum supplements. The Galician Parliament shares the idea that in order to ensure the sustainability of the system in the face of demographic challenges, it is necessary to improve its funding through social contributions, but also to count on the general budgets of the State. It's crucial to increase income by contributions, which are the main source of system funding, and for that it takes more and better jobs and more people by contributing to stable jobs and with better wages, because this increases the basis for contributions and social security income. The Galician Parliament expresses its commitment to the defence of the public pension system as the main instrument for welfare, protection and social cohesion, which must be strengthened in the face of the demographic challenge it faces in order to ensure sufficient pensions to ensure a decent life for the people who charge them." So be it. [[Approved by consent.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] We're still on the agenda. Now it's the government's questions. Question of Da María Luisa Pierres López and four other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the view of the Government of Galicia regarding the information coverage given by CRTVG on the death in Valga of three women victims of violence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u272	Mrs. Pierres, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u273	Good afternoon, Mr. Rueda. Allow me, first of all, to greet the representatives of the Intercenter Committee of the CRTVG, who are now with us from the rostrum. And there's a reason not great, but rather huge, why our group is bringing this matter to the House today. That's why it's called exemplary, because it's of no use to shape intentions in the papers or to sign agreements and to draft laws if there's then no watch or exemplary in compliance with all of them. And the coverage of 16, 17 and 18 of Valga's macho killings has again been a further example of the failure to comply with the information protocols by Public Television Galega. I'll be honest with you. Perhaps there were coverages in the past far more unfortunate than this one, it may be, but the Socialist Group does not expect CRTVG to act with more or less fortune, our group and all the population involved in the fight against macho violence aspires to and requires that it be done with complete correction, with that exemplaryness that should have a public environment; a means that should be echoed by the law, such as 11/2007, Galicia for the prevention and comprehensive treatment of gender violence and its pedagogical, social and informational responsibility. [[Applause]] Despite the fact that CRTVG has had this self-regulation agreement since 2015 with recommendations on the treatment of cases of male violence, its implementation continues to give signs of total incapacity. In the case of Valga, a number of these recommendations were ignored: on the one hand, in some newspapers it was treated as a conventional event and the inclusion of the complaint's phone was forgotten, and in those where it was done it was not warned that the call does not leave a hit. A language was used that would normalize the masculine violence and with morbid details, such as the image of one of the bodies at the time of being covered or references to the place of autopsy, the same as it had happened in Diana Quer's, when it was a data, first, that lacked information and that it wasn't even contrasted, because, in fact, it wasn't even so. I'm dying over the information, Counselor. But the most serious was undoubtedly the lack of surveillance in the use of witnesses close to the aggressor, as recommended in the protocol. Interviewing the killer's sister before even the arrival of the professionals of the psychological intervention group does not really seem the most suitable, nor does her choice as an example of being an emotional victim in the case, nor does her public exhibition with images in which, while still behind her, her name and surname appear in the headlines. That's why we asked him: do you really believe that the coverage carried out by CRTVG of the triple male murder in Valga complied with all the recommendations of the CRTVG Board of Directors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u274	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u275	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Mrs. Pierres. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I haven't had the opportunity to speak in Parliament, in the time that you averaged from the masculine murder of Valga until now, as I think everyone has done, the rejection and solidarity of the Government of Galician Union above all with the family, and, of course, the commitment to help the orphans and that father and that grandfather to help them on the most difficult path that they have left from now on. I mean, I didn't have a chance to do it in this parliament on behalf of the German Government and I wanted to do it on this question. From there, Mrs. Pierres, I'm going to tell you something that I've already answered to you other times that you have asked me questions about the view of the German Government regarding the information content of Galician Television. I've told you, and I'm telling you again, I understand that you belong to a party that has a national television, in this case Spain, with a very provisional administration, that it's already been eighteen months without giving absolutely no intention or any sign of wanting to change — you will know why — I understand that it seems to you that a democratic government like that of the Galician Union must join in the contents of a public television, which is so much like saying that every time you watch Galician TV and don't like it, it calls here the Government of Galician Union to intervene, so that from now on you like everything you see on television. That's the meaning of your questions. You look like it's not like that, but I tell you honestly, seeing it with a minimal objectivity, that's what there is, and of course, this is what we're not going to do in any case. Mrs. Pierres, there's a control committee of the CRTVG in this Parliament, you know very well. I'd have to tell you that that's where these kinds of initiatives are to be presented, and if so, discuss them. But they've already done it, an initiative exactly the same or practically the same as you make me here today. Of course, my duty is to come and answer her as a member of the Government and also as a Member, but my duty and conviction is also to tell her that in that control committee is where the questions must be asked if what we want is to control, in a democratic sense, Galician television and the contents it emits. Don't expect this government to control a corporation that has its control mechanisms. I hope, of course, to promote everything that is going to lead to good functioning, much more on the subject of equality and the fight against violence. Many things have been done, we will continue to do, but do not expect an intervention that would not be democratic, in our opinion, in the contents of a public corporation. Do you think so? Keep asking these questions. This democratic government will always answer the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u276	Thank you, Vice-President and President-in-Office. Replica, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u277	Today you believe me, Mr. Rueda, that our intention was only to show how important it is that all of us are involved in eradicating masculine violence, you too, and, of course, the TVG too. The Socialist Party doesn't say it, it says the law of equality. [[Applause]] And the Socialist Party claims it, but it also claims it from the Official College of Psychology of Galicia, also claims it from the College of Journalists of Galicia, and it is also claimed by the collective ‘defense the Galician’, with the various professional calls they have made these days to the responsibility and good practices of the media, also calls for Greek television. This was not a timely fact, Mr. Rueda, this very weekend a television set was opened on TVG with a case of maleistic violence in Germany in which jealousy murder was justified, an expression that violates the seventh recommendation of the protocol for trying to approach the aggressor's understanding and exculpation. And by mentioning other episodes so bad, the publicity issued last year on the Land Rover program, where it was said that it was better to see the program than to hit an old one; an example of how, shielded in humor, falls into the mistake of misdirecting and minimizing the severity of attitudes of macho violence, feeding, in addition, a fully outdated image of woman. Questions all of them show the need for public television in Wales to bet on the implementation of a continuing training plan in the treatment of cases of violence against men and women, including the use of language, which allows them to recycle themselves to workers and workers. That is the only way to achieve that excellence and information exemplity, which is, of course, expected from the TVG and its directors and directives. So, Counsellor, I would like to ask you, this time and all that is needed, are you aware of the need to defend an exemplary, quality and dignified television for all and thus contribute to the eradication of violence and inequality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u278	Thank you, your time is up. Close the question, Mr Vice-President and President-in-Office of the Council, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u279	Mrs Pierres, of course we are aware, and that is why the Members and Members of the People's Party in this Parliament are doing their work in the Committee on Control and doing their best — just as I suppose — will the Members of their group and the other parliamentary groups — so that we have the most objective, the most plural and the most useful television possible for Greek society. And that also includes, of course, the fight against macho violence and including the fight for equality, there they do. What we're never going to do is what you've just done - in my opinion and I think that in the opinion of many people, of course, in the opinion of many Members and Members who have heard it here today - again, with that kind of superiority that I think is not good enough to fight a scourge that affects us all, and to think that if we think the same as you and we have the same vision and the same offer of a channel to solve the problems that you have, it's how you have to do things, and if we have a different opinion, then it's not that we're wrong, it's who we're not against macho violence and for equality, and that, of course, we can't afford them. It's very clear, it's very clear, because so we're not going to solve anything at all. And from there will come a lot of mistakes from believing that you have to take advantage of opportunities to wear out the government and not take advantage of opportunities to get us, among all, better public media, including, of course, the Galician Radio-Television Company. So we will continue to do what we are doing, which is, through the General Secretariat of Equality and through all departments of the Government that are necessary, to encourage training courses for CRTVG staff; to encourage the subscription of conventions for good practice; to encourage anything that is to be promoted by a non-sexist advertising commission; to ultimately encourage everything that can contribute to making a more just, more equal, more preventive society of machist violence through public media such as the Galician Public Television Commission. What we are not going to do is never to use Parliament to wear out the government, not to understand that this is a struggle for all and to pretend that a democratic government gets into the contents of a democratic television. That's what you're trying to do in Madrid. It's been 18 months. That's how it goes, and that's how it goes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u280	Thank you, Vice President. Question from Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo and two other MPs from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Galicia in relation to the path of the Ártebra to connect the polygons of the Holy Spirit - Camera- and Bergondo with the A-6
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u281	You have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u282	Good afternoon, Counselor. I want to take this opportunity to greet the Association of Neighbors affected by the infrastructures of the Chamber Town Hall, which accompany us here today among the public. The Ártabra road, Counsellor, you know that this is a work planned in 2001 with the aim of relieving the volume of vehicles on the roads in the area and acting as a means of cohesion in the metropolitan area of Coruña. But at present it has a traffic intensity much lower than expected, because it has no connection to the high-capacity routes that reach the urban area. On March 4th, you announced in Coruña the extension of the Ártebra route with an investment of about EUR 40 million, a work that was authorized at the Board of Directors on February 21st this year for the bidding of the start-up works of the first phase of extension of the Ártebra to the AP-9 motorway; that is, from N-6 to the AC-221 autonomous road. The reference of the Council points out that the tender includes a modification of the contract to execute the second phase of the assignment work with AP-9 as soon as the Ministry of Development authorizes this connection. It closes the Council's note indicating that the Ártabra route is a strategic route to the Galician Union, defined in the sectoral plan of the Coruña road network, Artexo, Culleredo, Cambre and Oleiros, whose objectives are: to improve communications in the Coruña area and to articulate a cross-sectional route to facilitate traffic in the city through N-6, AP-9 and A-6. The Sectoral Plan adopted in 2004 with Feijóo in front of the Council was born with the premise that it was something more than a road network infrastructure plan, so it defines territorial intervention policy determinations that compromise the documents that develop the plan as are the empowerment of trade activity, greater territorial balance and social cohesion and liberalization of tariffs. A broad view of the road infrastructures throughout the Coruña metropolitan environment cannot be confined to the connection of the Ártabra route with AP-9, increasing the density of exit traffic and entry into the city along Alfonso Molina Avenue, instead of looking for alternatives to this already saturated urban road. The Ártabra road must be a real connection of the municipalities concerned, a real connection of the industrial polygons of the metropolitan belt and a real connection of the port installations. Therefore, it is necessary to prioritize the connection of the Ártebra to A-6, thus becoming a true circle of the whole region, along with the A-6 itself...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u283	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u284	...the third round and no cost of paying.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u285	Thank you, your time is up. Response from the Infrastructure & Mobility Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u286	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, firstly I invite the Socialist Party to apologize for the announcement of the cessation of the high offices of the Galician Union for acting in Ourense, for it was very clear for the justice that they did nothing. So, I hope the Socialist Party will apologize for asking for the cessation of high office that justice has made meridianly clear that they have done nothing. [[Applause]] On issues of the Ártebra street, I'm delighted to answer again, and start with the specific questions that come into the text that I read literally: the connection of the Ártebra channel to A-6. I've had the opportunity to answer the same question, the connection to A-6, to Mr. Villoslada, who is now a conchler in the Coruña. I think I have been very clear in that reply to Mr. Villoslada and I will also be meridianly clear on this matter, as I always am, also with you. N-6, AP-9, A-6, to get far, you have to get closer as well. But closer, further. So let us also get to AP-9 to continue to A-6. I think it's totally understandable, understand a little boy. To get to A-6, you first have to get to AP-9, which is closer. That's how simple it is. What we're doing is EUR 40 million, the biggest investment with public funds on a new strategic road that's essential for the metropolitan area of Coruña. You well know the Members I have here, behind my back, that this action is essential. To move forward, we don't have permission from the Ministry of Development, but we're going to do it because we want to vertebrate Coruña, improve mobility and improve competitiveness in industrial matters. They don't seem to care much, but here's also a lot to do, because we connect to an industrial polygon and that connection is fundamental to making sense, functionality and bringing out the maximum yield of the 70 million euros that are already invested in the rest of the track. You have to give it functionality by connecting to AP-9 because it comes first to AP-9 than to A-6. It's a strategic act, and in the face of the difficulties of the Ministry of Development, for no longer delay, we've made the bidding of this first piece that we've had in our works since August; that is, it's no longer an auction, an announcement. You said, he made an announcement. The works have been ligated, we are running those works that will save 33% of the journey time of a person from Oleiros to the center of the Coruña. Supreme, which substantially benefits all N-6 neighbours, not only Sada, Oleiros, Bergondo, but also the Ferrol area. The neighbors of the N-6 are going to see a substantial improvement in their lives with three new kilometers, a free toll-free highway, to increase mobility and competitiveness. Poligon entrepreneurs are interested in this performance. But do you know what they should be worried about and what we're worried about? that the Ministry of Development authorizes, that the Ministry of Development says it is free of charge. Will you help ask the Ministry for this, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u287	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u288	Counsellor, we will bring up the questions we consider as often as we consider, and you, as a Government, have an obligation to answer. [[Applause]] Counsellor, it is true that you have just touched quite a bit on the reality of this situation in which we are now. You're talking about the connection to Oleiros. He's just worried about connection to Oleiros. Let's hope that the cause does not come determined by an urbanization called Finca de Xaz, in Oleiros, which is a residential with exclusive housing in the bosom of a modern private complex, with houses, clubs, sports courts, swimming pools and a unique rural surroundings near the beaches. We hope she's not conditioned by that situation. Look, Counselor, I ask you: Does the Council you preside over have duties done? Have you agreed to modify the current concessional contract with Audasa? Have you prepared the agreement that the three administrations involved must sign before the work is carried out, as the Ministry of Development itself has repeatedly reiterated on various occasions? By the way, when he ruled the People's Party in the State, he has also reiterated that it is necessary to comply with that amendment of the concessional contract with Audasa. Have you agreed with Audasa? Answer, Counselor, it's very important that we keep this track. Counsellor, the Chamber Council has brought several municipal reports to the board of directors of Galicia with competence in this matter: the Directorate-General of Heritage, the Directorate-General for Environmental Quality and Assessment and the Galaga Infrastructure Agency, without today's attention being paid to the incidences of manifesto in these reports.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u289	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Close shift, Infrastructure & Mobility advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u290	Thank you, President. I'm delighted to answer, but you have to put situations in context, I think the context of initiatives needs to be put to its proper measure. Nice to meet you, of course. A performance, in addition, in the metropolitan area of the Coruña is of utmost importance to the people around me and to the members of the Coruña. So let's make it clear that we're doing an act that meets all the regulations. He's in compliance with all road safety regulations. Maybe you don't care about safety. There are technicians who are concerned about road safety, technicians who are concerned about environmental regulations and environmental heritage technicians, and so on, because otherwise the work could not be done. Perhaps in other municipalities, if they do action without pre-emptive reports, or in other administrations, of course, in our administration we do work with all relevant sectoral reports. When there is a disconformity of the environmental body, for example, it cannot be done, as is the case with us on the high-performance route of Salnés, Grove, who has environmental conditions, but who is in work because he has all the relevant reports. Approved plot, by the way - I think you should know - by the Bipartite, therefore, that is a guarantee, I suppose, a plot approved by the Bipartite. Environmentally, I have here the environmental approval, Manuel Morato, who was the general director of Public Works at the time, when Maria José Caride was an adviser to Public Works. So a plot that's not political. The plots just have to be technical, I think we'll all agree. A technical layout that meets all environmental security guarantees, environmental objective criteria and bipartite plots, I am again referring to. I'm surprised that some of the Socialist Party's statements are made: we're moving towards A-6, but we have to act in front of AP-9. I'm surprised, for example, to see some of the Socialist Party's demonstrations on this AP-9 plot, because the Socialist Party is actually manifesting itself against the Socialist Party's own actions. I don't know if they're bluffing these performances. I saw the mayor of the Coruña at a demonstration on the environmental issues of the Ártebra: we're talking about the Ártebra route and the connection to AP-9, because to reach AP-9 we have to reach A-6. So, I don't think the mayor of the Crown knows what it really was, nor does she know it's an environmental plot known and approved by the Bipartite. To me it seems incongruent, I think there are other interests in the Socialist Party on this issue, the general interest, of course, I don't see it. I insist again, we expect the Ministry of Development to authorize the connection to AP-9. We have already sent a proposal for an agreement to the current Minister for Development and also the previous one. We have done our duties, in fact we already have the works running, not like other works at Alfonso Molina of whom we know nothing, works running with the Ministry of Development. I would like you to share with me and ask the Ministry of Development to authorize the connection and to be free to pay. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u291	Thank you, Counselor. Question by José Manuel Rey Varela and ten other Members of the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, about the situation in which the file is located and the deadlines that the Health Council manages to begin the renovation works of the University Hospital Complex of Ferrol
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u292	Mr. King Varela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u293	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Counsellor, the University Hospital Complex of Ferrol is the main health representative of the districts of Ferrolterra, Eume and Ortegal. He looks at about two hundred thousand people, he records a little over fifteen thousand revenues a year, and a little over sixty thousand emergencies a year too. The hospitals that share the complex, the Marcide, the Naval and the Novoa, need an important investment, for years now, in order to equalize health care in these districts with the rest of the Greeks, which in general have new equipment and hospitals renewed. After much waiting and many words about Ferrol's Master Plan, he was the government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo - with you as advisor - which in March 2017 indicates the drafting of a new director plan for Ferrol. A very important investment, a very expected investment, of more than 100 million euros, that in the first phase, which has already been assessed in September this year, after many vicissitudes by which I will ask you later, will be 50 million euros publicly invested in health care in Ferrol. It is EUR 50 million which is an investment but which is also a very important civil work, which will undoubtedly contribute to employment in a region currently heavily punished by the Central Government as a result of the naval crisis and now the coal crisis. It's the most important health investment in the last forty years, and a project that's also important, since it's been developed together with healthcare professionals in the area, magnificent professionals, who want to be able to provide better service to the population they care for. Already the zero phase, with very important improvements in the laboratory of pathological anatomy, in the kitchen or laundry, which was put into operation only a few days ago, my question is focused on the deadlines. What deadlines, after all these vicissitudes, does the Health Council manage to begin the actual works of remodeling the University Hospital Complex of Ferrol, and what improvement will it make for users? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u294	Thank you, Mr. Rey. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u295	Thank you very much. Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. King Varela, the truth is that the Government of the Union is committed to modernising all health infrastructures in general, but especially - as you well said - the Ferrol health area. It's a very important population, and a demand with a great deal of justification for doing so. We have a great project, which is the Director Plan of the Ferrol University Hospital Complex, which is a total investment of 130 million euros. Of course, we have to say that this is the biggest health investment in the Ferrol area of all history. Only in phase 1, approved, and at the point already - in fact the UTE that won this contest is already preparing to start land and other movements - is 50 million euros. At the moment, we have completed the actions of the zero phase, which I remind you to understand the previous works of necessary execution in order to start the treatment at this second stage. Logically, we need to leave more empty spaces in order to do so. What do we do with this, with phase zero? So a reform to locate a new laboratory of pathological anatomy, right now, surely the most modern in Spain, with an investment of more than one million euros. That zero phase also carries a temporary kitchen at Naval Hospital, amounting to €893,000; a new laundry at Naval. When we could look for an alternative outlet, we want to keep it, because it had a laundry room, but now it has the most modern technology possible, with a total investment of 2.8 million euros, and it's already in operation; we've had a visit to get to know that investment. From the technological, industrialized, modernized point of view, and from the environmental level, of course, the most advanced in all of Europe. But also in the Navy building of the Naval Hospital, a 378,000 reform is being made, setting it up for general services, supplies, computers and so on. All of this is phase zero, that is, in the preceding phase it's already over 5 million euros. At the same time as these works were being carried out - as I was saying - we are preparing the basic project of execution and assisting it, so I would also like to thank you to the Infrastructure Council, because we are going to be coordinated, and the great works run by the Infrastructure Council. This first phase that we have started in these days involves the construction of two new buildings, one assistance and another support, and the functional areas defined in the master plan begin. There is also a series of performances at the Naval Hospital, specifically a series of internal reforms to enable the necessary spaces for the transfer of services from the Marcide Architect Hospital. The new buildings will host the day hospital, cardiology, dialysis...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u296	Thank you, Counselor. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u297	...ITU, neonatology, external consultations, offices...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u298	Counselor, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u299	...with the management, management and administration...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u300	He's got another shift later. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Replica, Mr. Rey.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u301	Thank you very much, Counselor, for with your answer you see efficiency on the part of the Council of Galicia so that these works can begin, those of phase one, after phase zero, with an imminent character, which is what we are all waiting for after you've talked about for so many years of a master plan that didn't exist until this legislation. In all major investment, however, the institutional collaboration of different administrations is very important. This collaboration was impossible with the former mayor of Ferrol, who did not grant permission for the Galician Board to invest in the city more than 100 million euros, and forced the Autonomic Administration to come to the exceptional processing of the Law 3/2016, of measures on public emergency projects and exceptional public interest. He proceeds to complete without allegations, by the way, after the public exhibition, in the past month of September, which immediately allows the Council of Galicia to adjudicate this performance, even though it has more than one year's delay not to grant that licence. The issue of the licence is solved, the following procedure is missing for collaboration between the administrations, which is the cooperation agreement between the Galician Union and the Ferrol Council. It was sent for the first time to Ferrol in May 2017; for the second time in 2018, together with the licence application; for the third time on February 1, 2018; and for the fourth time - it is with a new mayor - on August 26, this year. Given recent statements from the new mayor of Ferrol, in which he presents as a achievement of his first hundred days having unlocked this important investment, this infrastructure for the city, I wanted to ask you at parliamentary headquarters what the state of the file is and whether the Ferrol Council signed the collaboration agreement mentioned above. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u302	Thank you, Mr. Rey. Close the question, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u303	Thank you, Mr. President. You have to forgive, Mr. President, but for the extent of what we're doing in Ferrol we don't have enough time to ask a question, so I have to apologize. [[Laughter]] I want to make it clear. [[Applause]] Two new buildings that will expand the Marcide and the remodeling of the Naval. The new buildings take the day hospital, cardiology, dialysis, ICU, neonatology, external consultations, cabinets, management, management, nephrology and dialysis, pediatrics, pediatrics, adult ICU. New hospitalization is very important because there was a clear difference between Ferrol and other hospitals. We have to go to a new hospitalization of individual rooms, or at most double, but, of course, with all the measures necessary for people to be short of time in hospitals, but as long as it is, it's much more comfortable than it is right now. Of course, that was the concept. Another clear idea - and unfortunately not so - is that, logically, we are very interested in collaboration between municipalities, which is fundamental. I want to set an example for the Town Hall of Pontevedra, which is the truth that he has and is having an important collaboration for the Great Montecelo. In the Council of Ferrol, unfortunately, we did not find that collaboration in the previous corporation. As you well say, after sending agreements we signed a protocol, but the agreements we wanted to move forward and license directly were not possible. We had to resort to Law 3, a law that, as you know, for themes of works of public interest or urgency is the one that allows us to be where we are right now, already auctioned, with a contracted UTE, which is that of Acciona, San José and Prace, worth 49,000. It is true that we continue today with the current Government, we send again, we speak directly to the new mayor and we want to hold hands. We understand that the ideal is to arrive and sign that agreement to proceed, as we say, and that as soon as we can offer to all citizens of that important area of Galicia, of the area of Ferrolterra, as you said, the maximum quality they need. So we understand that in the next few months - it's been said for thirty-six months, but we're going to try to make it clear - we're going to have finished and finished phase 1. Regardless of whether we do not sign the agreement, we will continue ahead, in those thirty-six months phase 1 will be finished, and by that time, with the corresponding allocation, the neighbours and neighbours of this area will be able to enjoy new facilities and new equipment. And we'll continue with phase 2 and phase 3 to finish this great project to the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u304	Thank you, Counselor. We are now debating, in a cumulative way, three questions, all of them about the current situation of Vigo Povisa Hospital. Cumulative debate Da Eva Solla Fernández, G.P. of En Marea, on the assessment by the Galician Board of Directors of the current situation in the operation of Povisa Question by Mr Julio Torrado Quintela and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the guarantee by the Government of the Greek Government of the maintenance of the demanding quality of care and employment at the Povisa Hospital, de Vigo Question by Mr Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and seven other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on information from the Health Council on the possible sale of the Povisa Hospital, Vigo, and, where appropriate, the measures envisaged in this regard
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u305	It begins by asking Mrs Solla, the Group of the Left's Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u306	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Mr. Almuinha. You, once again, have just sold the workers and workers of Povervisa as if they were authentically numbers, with a totally orchestrated operation from the Health Council, since last year you had decided, in conjunction with the company, to renegotiate a concert to apply the sanitation of accounts, thus facilitating a sale that was not recent, because, as we know, Ribera Salud had tried to buy this company earlier in the previous years, after you too had renegotiated and improved these accounts by signing the concert in 2010. You sell the workers and the workers as if they were numbers, and you also sell the health care of 140,000 Galicians and Greeks to whom you leave in the hands of a large U.S. corporation. And I have to say here that it's the second one, and I will also remember that it's a Luxembourg fund which already has 16% of Vigo's new hospital. So the inhabitants of Vigo have their health dependent on the large investment funds thanks to the management of a People's Party responsible also for the failure of our country's industrial model. All the companies in our region are in shock because of their politics. Today, you also ask about this question, trying to wash your image in relation to the maintenance of jobs. The reality -- and the workers up there -- is that you didn't care about public health when you cut the number of beds in Vigo's new hospital to secure Mr. Silveira's business, and they didn't care about jobs at all. I have to remember that all these renegotiations have been made at the expense of the sweat of workers and workers, who have had an agreement frozen since 2010, supporting ERE, layoffs and cut-offs of continuous hours. Now, you make it easier for this company to clean up and sell without ensuring the quality of jobs. That's the reality. The People's Party therefore speaks to Povervisa's staff and speaks to 140,000 Welsh people who are forced to be treated there, because, contrary to what you usually say and pray, there is no public health capacity to care for these people, thanks to the cut of 500 beds that you've managed to produce in the project of Vigo's new hospital. Mr. Almuña, last year, when the company came into pre-competition -- by the way, without depositing its accounts, which we had to denounce the absence of accounts in the Commercial Register -- you were already acquaintances -- so you met this week -- about the negotiations that were being made to sell the company. And today what we have is uncertainty about not only the maintenance of jobs, but the quality. Are the workers up there, will you guarantee that these agreements will be renegotiated so that they have better working conditions and, therefore, an improvement in health care? So why are the Greeks and the Greeks also obliged to be cared for by an American multinational?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u307	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u308	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. You based your answer a few minutes ago - a little while ago - on the Galician Nationalist Block in two questions. One, that we're going to do the socialists when we rule. And two, which you already knew about the socialists' position. Appealing to Manquina, "we'll get along." I'll admit you've hit one of them. I'm going to give him a hint: he's wrong in the position he says we have. But thanks for acknowledging that we're going to have to rule within a few months and that we're going to have to solve the problems that you leave us. Especially you, who is the Councillory who will leave us with more problems. From that, I'm going to read you a resolution. "To study the most appropriate and favourable administrative formula that allows Sergas to take care of the health care of the centre, ensuring jobs and health services." You say you know what our position is, but this was voted in this Parliament two weeks ago. It is a resolution from this Parliament that brought the Left Joint Group and that we voted in favour. Your group against, by the way. If you say you know our position, you should know that in this Parliament, you know, sometimes you have to, and sometimes you are, so if you come here saying you know what our position is, you will know that this is what we vote for, and this is what we stand for, and this is what you're going to find us, today, tomorrow, the next year, when we have to rule, and all the time after that. So you know what our position is. [[Applause]] Specifically about the sale, which is something to worry about, because you talked about that we're going to rule and see what we're doing, but you didn't talk much about the sale. Did you know anything? Because it makes the feeling that they seem to have found out about the papers, but it also gives another feeling. You renegotiated the agreement not long ago, and said the buyer and seller who, just after renegotiating the agreement, began to soften the operation. Curious! Gives the feeling that you've evaluated the operation. You covered the burratins with money -- we said here there had to be more explanations about it -- so that, from that, there would be an operation. If that operation was fraying at the time, one question strikes us all: why did Sergas not buy Povervisa? It's not a bad market price. Why didn't you buy Povisa? You don't think so? It's quite less than you pay for many other services. So that's the same explanation as why they didn't make the initial project for the Cunqueiro Alvaro. You buy a company you know, you better than anyone, you set it up. It's the executive company of its health policies in Valencia, and that's the thing, and thanks to the fact that there's a government in Valencia that started to reverse the situation. The situation in Povervisa is exceptional. It shouldn't be structural, it must be exceptional. And that's what we have to decide. We have a clear position: public attention, a public centre, with public staff. Is that the government's opposition or not? That's the point. But you can't define if that's the question. And we wonder, if in 2022, that we have to renegotiate the agreement, that's the position the government will have at that time - which is what's coming in next year, you say - what's going to happen until then? What we ask you to do is guarantee employment and guarantee health care. How? Did you negotiate anything in the agreement to guarantee employment or just talk about words?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u309	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u310	Thank you, President. From this group, from the People's Group, President, we have made the public apologies of the Socialist Member, who has spoken about mobs, occupied and demanded the termination of the office of the Senate acquitted by the Audience of Ourense. It would be a worthy and just act. [[Applause]] We're talking, Counsellor, about the Povervisa hospital, which last week was sold to the Ribera Health Group, an experienced health management company. The Povisa hospital has been providing public health assistance since 1973, the first concert was in 1976. It was changing owners and -- as you said in the interpellation -- in 2014 a concert was signed that has as its fundamental characteristic volunteerity; that is, people from the areas assigned to the hospital can choose perfectly between going to the Povervisa hospital or going to the hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, up to that total of 139,000 people who are looking at the concert. I have repeatedly accused the People's Party of privatizing public health and of doing everything possible to encourage private companies to enrich themselves, those private companies that work for health. This doesn't seem to apply to this concert, which has caused a deficit in the company that's been about to take it down, and has caused a significant debt in these years. This situation was corrected by changing the conditions to prevent the possible closure of the hospital, with serious prejudices that would cause the people attending this center and the workers themselves. You spoke of that agreement in 2006, how things change! I'll read you some phrases of that agreement. "Measures. Ordered and planned development of public and private assistance resources providing concerted assistance in the area of Vigo. The commitment to maintaining employment, both in the public and private sectors, which provides concerted assistance, in particular in what may be affected by the new Vigo hospital. The concert with Povvisa must guarantee the quality activity necessary to maintain the current employment". Commitments were also included in that agreement. "The public character of the Greek health system, and the maintenance of the public and private nature of the Greek health sector. The maintenance of employment and the work of the health sector is a guarantee of a balance and public-private complementarity which is linked to the quality of care and the development of health professionals in the various fields". Socialist and nationalist government, class unions, entrepreneurs, you said you signed that agreement that seems incompatible with what we heard in this House during these years by the opposition. No more comments. Counsellor, we'd like to know about the current situation of the sale and what the Council has done or is planning to do. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u311	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u312	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think a lot of data has been given in the interrogation, but it seems that sometimes you have to check them and give them back, because if we don't forget what we want to do. As I say, concerts with Povervisa have been going on for forty-three years, which, logically, have made it evolve in an appropriate way and that if you arrive at a new concert, which is the year 2014, very important and novice, which, of course, works properly. Why? Because we're starting from a capital base, a capital base that's going to mark not activity attention. They used to say that there was an instruction from Povvisa's management so there wouldn't be any unnecessary evidence. It's just that this instruction is general for any health service. The other day, there was a TV series about the activity of a private hospital, which the new director fired a group, the whole heart surgery service, because they made a lot of things -- that is, because they were doing an activity upstairs. Here, the system that's being implemented, of course, is to do the activity that needs to be done at every moment and see where we have to care for each patient at every moment. So home hospitalization is also enhanced at the Povervisa concert. This capital base has another very important element, which is the freedom of the population to choose. What you want to be in Povervisa may be in Povervisa, and what you don't want to be in Povervisa may change and be in the population; about 25%, about, since 2014 has had that change, although many of those who are now behind the sign and say that they defend the workers of Povervisa have campaigned to merge Povervisa and therefore bring those workers to unemployment during those years. That's the reality. Even there were people who talked about bad practices in the hospital, people who today defend the workers and say they want it to work and it works well. I don't think it's all worth it. Of course, we have a lot of controls on Povervisa activity, controls like ADX, management agreements with objectives equal to the services of public hospitals, so that our patients are treated exactly the same. Waiting list compliments. As I also said earlier, 100 days less from the year 2014 to the end of December 2018. Of course, much better than in the Valencian Community right now, where the waiting list was fired in the area of Alcira since by ideology -- as I say -- a decision was made without thinking about workers or patients, and what's going on is happening. Also for the quality of the pharmaceutical benefit. Like I say, fairness and equality. And also for other strategic lines objectives: what are the quick ways, what is the new maximum-time regulation, everything applies to the same as some patients. So we do this control, we do a care check, but there's also a control of the administrative part, the pure and hard part of management, by the team of the Vigo EOXI Power. Therefore, fully coordinated. The entire area of Vigo is coordinated through the Management of this area. In addition, there is a Sergas-Povervisa Joint Commission that regularly discusses elements that may alter or prejudice the action. Of course, there may also be specific revisions of the Health Services Inspection of the Health Council, as they do in many of the health centres, to ensure the best possible quality of this intervention. It must be said that Sergas, at all times, scrupulously met the conditions of the concert, except at some points, and as I said before: at 90 percent he achieved the assistance targets and at 10 percent he didn't. That means there's evaluation and it's not a flat table, but we have to meet those objectives. It should also be considered that the application of the set in the concert with respect to per capita evolution could reasonably be moving a financial tension from the increase of the hospital pharmacy, which is the great growth problem that exists right now. So when you do this concert review, with an additional third clause, you're looking, precisely, to maintain the quality of attention and also that backup for the workers. So since this parliament if the opposition feels worth what the template is, and we do it — as I said before — the three hundred sixty-five days of the year, not once a year, as it happens, unfortunately on many occasions. These concert changes carry clear and transparent legal advice; nothing is hidden here. Here is a whole negotiation; of course, a special negotiation by exclusivity, but with all the content, with all the economic and legal memories of what is being done, with total transparency, and always — as I say — seeking to improve this benefit. Our commitment to the quality of care and to the maintenance of employment was patented by our willingness to assess the situation of the centre and the possible tensions that might have been the result of the conditions of the concert, and by the search for the best solution, always within the framework of the concert itself and the existing legal mechanisms. It's often hard to understand what the position of his lords is, which is variable. I was saying the Socialist Party now that they're clear what the position is. Well, I think the press clippings of all these weeks don't make it as clear as you do. Possibly, it won't be that he says something in Parliament and then they call him attention at the next party meeting, because it seems that very important forces within the Socialist Party don't think exactly like him. I think we, however, have a clear position; a position of aid reinforcement, of care for these workers. And, of course, we're going to keep trying to improve, even more, this health area, because it's made a big investment. The greatest investment in health history in Galicia has been made in the Vigo area in recent years, at a time of a serious economic crisis, and today I think we can be a model of operation for the whole country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u313	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u314	Those who do not have a marked position are you. We always defend public health, and of course... calm down, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party; if they have nothing to do, they can go up and talk to the workers. [[Protests.]] And, of course, we defend the job. I wonder where you were in 2013, when the workers were threatened and when they had to go to the indefinite strike, when the cleaners were fired, when the assistants were fired, the company's administrators. Where were they not 2014? Where were they in 2015, when the hunger strike, when the EREs? Where were you, in what banner were you? On Mr. Silveira's sign, there you were! [[Applause]] Where were you when last year, in full advocacy of creditors, eight hundred thousand euros were distributed to corporate managers in dividends? That's the company's sanitation: they take the company's managers hot, they carry the same multinational money hot that owes 140 million euros to Valencian Health. Do you think it's wrong to negotiate in the Valencian country? You do it better, prove that you can do it better. But they don't want it, because you always wanted to benefit from the pattern. You can guarantee here that they will get better, ladies and gentlemen, calm down. [[Murmurs.]] Can you guarantee that the working conditions of those people who are sitting up there and of the rest of the colleagues and comrades will be improved after almost ten years of freezing working conditions, after practicing employment regulation files, dismissals, reduction of days? [[Protests.]] [[Murmurs.]] You neither guarantee the public health budget nor guarantee the quality of employment. All they're interested in is ensuring the business of multinational companies. I remind you -- I repeat to you here again -- you haven't been defending the jobs, but you haven't been advocating that this benefit is given in public health, and for that you cut five hundred beds at Vigo's new hospital.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u315	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Replica, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u316	Thank you, President. Counselor, before you assumed that the time has not come to talk about Ferrol, he has left out two minutes; of Povervisa, he must not want to count too much! Anyway, she's very happy about the sale. [[Applause]] If you are going to collect bonus or productive bonds, you have to warn Parliament. And I tell him if anyone... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u317	Please, please! No, no, just a moment, please. That expression must be removed. That expression must remove it! I'm asking you to take it off. Home!, you can't here in the debate make a statement about a counselor you're going to notice... It doesn't work. [[Murmurs.]] Either you take it away or I take it away, and I call it by order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u318	If you'll let me talk.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u319	You can talk, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u320	It's not a statement, which is conditional. But if you want, I take it back, I have no problem.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u321	Take it off! I'm asking you to take it off.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u322	I repeat it again, Mr. President: it was a conditional, not a statement. But if you want, I'll take it back.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u323	Take it off. He's retired.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u324	Yes, yes. I'm telling you it was a conditional, not an affirmation. It must have been a dangerous parole. [[Words not perceived.]] Anyway... No, I say, by the time, it didn't happen to me to run... No, because I'm going to keep talking, if not, I'm talking too much, and it's not a matter of breaking the rules.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u325	Don't worry about time, that's another question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u326	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u327	That has nothing to do with each other.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u328	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u329	Now go on time, I'll give you here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u330	Thank you very much. I also appreciated you, Counselor, your concern about my position on account of my actions in the party. If anyone has to be worried about his party for how he's acting, it's not me either; but in any case, I won't insist on it. We believe there is some realization that you have not done, and that it is quite necessary to listen. You're talking about securing employment and saving workers. All right, these are good statements! But beyond statements, because you were talking about sometimes things in Parliament. [[Mr. President bisba.]] We vote for the resolutions we agree with, and that is a clear commitment, but you leave it alone in words. We ask ourselves, how, when it comes to government, does it save workers?, how does it guarantee employment? Well, probably including clauses in the agreements Sergas signs. Did you include any clauses in the 2014 Workers' Protection Agreement? We don't know because we don't have access to the agreement, for some strange reason. Did they renegotiate anything last year, perhaps, that you can tell us about the workers' backup, or even now, since you probably had some chance to renegotiate some aspects with the sale? Did you really protect the workers in the agreements, in the documents they signed? Because if you don't, you're talking about saying something, but you're not offering the truth. In fact, there are three issues that are necessary in this process: an audit, to really know what the situation is where we are investing so much; to know the agreement, and to know your project in the medium and long term, yours, your government. Tell me if you want to maintain the Povisa system that is currently in existence, or want to go to a public system, with public attention, public center and public staff. That must be the goal, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u331	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Replica, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u332	Thank you, President. I think there will be more socialist Members who will have to apologize. Did you hear, Counselor, what does the opposition say? How different things are when you rule, right? When an agreement is signed for the maintenance of Povervisa as a concerted centre and no expropriation is required for the public system or the privatization of Welsh health. What would be the reason why they didn't rescind the concert, or recover Povervisa, or expropriate Povervisa, back in 2008? What would be the reason? We all know that the amounts reflected in the budget for concerts were, in these years, less than the two-party government had, but it's the PP that always privatizes. It's the constant loathsome of the opposition. It is now requested by nationalists and groups of the ancient tides, and in addition to some adjacent platforms, the absorption of the Povisa Hospital by Sergas. Before it wasn't necessary, and the Povervisa Hospital had to be promoted, now it's essential. At least the Socialist Party seemed to not support this theme, though, after hearing the voice now, we don't know exactly what the position is. I found Mr. Gonzalo Caballero's statements where he criticized Mr. Feijóo for not making a clear bet for the public, for Povisa or for Álvaro Cunqueiro. Similar statements by the mayor of Vigo were not of the approval of the Committee of Enterprise of Povervisa, and even the IGC spokesman defended the public character of the hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro. I mean, it looks like I'm not the same. But that same mayor, when there was the problem of the concert, asked for an increase in the amounts allocated to it. We know that socialists say one thing and the opposite without a solution of continuity; we just have to look at Pedro Sanchez to check it out. From the majority group we support the position of the Government of the Union and the meeting of you with the former owners and the Business Committee, to carry out what is really important, which is to keep the jobs and carry out the live concert. For our part, Mr. Counsellor, nothing more and thank you for the intervention that responds to the question put, which we suppose will complete in the second round of speeches. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u333	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Close these questions, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u334	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, when the arguments and what the strategic lines of health say are the time a Member speaks in this chamber, this indicates that, here, what some political group values is what they call falsbarate, i.e. the more time I talk about the more reason I have. The reality -- as I said from the beginning -- is that Sergas, the Councillory of Health and the Council of Galicia have been working for a long time, working for the 300 sixty-five days, so that all health care and health care are the same in any area. With different procedures? Maybe. But, of course, it's important. And for that we have enough controls to be able to do it. We keep working day to day. He said the representative of the Joint Left Group Parliamentary Group that we sold, that Sergas was selling. I think I clearly know that it's not Sergas' property, that it's a private property and a relationship between companies. We, logically, if we have an agreement signed. Sergas and the Galician Union are serious, and as long as they have an agreement signed, they will fulfill it; of course, demanding each of the parties to meet what they have to do. And I also said this same spokesman -- I think sometimes because of screaming more and telling the others that they're nervous, you're right, and not so -- that another background will lead to the health of the Vigo area. He wouldn't listen or he wouldn't listen. It's not a financial fund, it's not a Voitre fund, it's a company of the important, very important health care that wants to grow in Spain and Europe. In fact, he's entered the United Kingdom too, and he's going to grow. So we're interested in people committed to doing good management, and we're going to be vigilant. But logically — as I say — we have a criterion, we have a concert, and we will follow it to the end. But also for the alarms they want at all times to pose — that, by the way, what they often seek is to disbalance that company to see if it goes wrong, and then to say that this is the fault of the Board too — we do everything the opposite; we try to strengthen that attention so that soon one hundred and thirty-seven thousand citizens in the Vigo area can decide what they consider appropriate. It seems that in May they confirmed that they agreed, minimum movements, less than 2 percent. So something in Povervisa must do well. And as I know him, I was told that I worked in Povervisa, and I say it proudly, I learned a lot, from the base, I learned there. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! [[Murmurs.]] It was turning when I started working at eight in the morning until very late. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I've learned a lot from the people and the professionals who work there, and I'm not ashamed of anything. I think it's a great school to learn a lot of medicine. So there's nothing to offend. By the way, I went there in 1998. The rotating door is quite rotational and large, but it's not like that. So I defend with the Galician Union the best possible health, this region and any other region; we were talking before Ferrol — who was asking the president to excuse me for not enough time — and of course, we're going to try to improve at all times, and here, with a live concert. [[Murmurs.]] So to say that when we made this change because of a clear impact that could directly affect the workers and also the assisted population, with a much clearer paragraph than that statement of the year 2006, which was a mix — as the MP of the People's Party said — that he was talking about public-private, that we were going to do a hospital. And when I was in the government and the council of Baiona, the opposition always said, "No, this is what we were going to do -- during the year and a half that they ruled before me," we were going to do it, but it didn't take time. This is the same. They were four years old, they made very nice statements that didn't improve on anything or the quality of care or the quality of work, the working environment of the workers. So that statement we made just a few months ago is clear, and we want to continue to enhance health and quality by strengthening precisely that. And when Mr. Torrado said he has no problem with what he does, well!, I don't know if he has a problem or not!, but in the Voice of Galicia on 8 October, two days ago: "The mayor asks him to keep his job, but he doesn't support Sergas absorbing the hospital." This gave a senior head of the Socialist Party of the PSdG, I think it has a lot of influence; it's named just like the spokesperson, but it's not the spokesperson. [[Murmurs.]] But the spokesman also defended that all this must be defended. Again, on Tuesday, October 8th – the same day, I think it is the same day – says: "Chief on the sale of Povisa: let the work be maintained and the quality of care." Looks like it matches what we say. So I think that the Board, the Board, is not so wrong when you are doing a task — as I say — of controlling this concession, that we will continue to do as we have been doing for many years, and of course looking for improvement at all times. We always have to say that in the future we don't know, but people lose credibility every time they talk. And I think that this afternoon some of the spokespersons were able to shut up and not lose credibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u335	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Ms Rosa Oubina Solla and six more members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on the fundamental objectives of the strategy of economic, territorial and tourism dynamisation of the wine regions in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u336	Mr. Blanco Paradelo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u337	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counselor, good afternoon. It's true that rural policy depends on what advice you're conducting, but it's no less true that decision-making of different projects and rural impulse plans have to be addressed in an integral, cross-sectional manner with the involvement and participation of the entire Government of Galicia. And why is that? Because Galicia is rural, and as such requires joint and well-coordinated actions, owned by a stable and cohesive government, such as President Feijóo's head. A good example of this is the recent announcement we've come to know about the launch of a strategy of economic, territorial and tourist dynamisation of the wineries in Galicia. A strategy involving three councils: the Council of the Rural Environment, that of Economy, that of Employment and Industry, that of Culture and Tourism and the Juana de Vega Foundation, that of which all agents of the sector involved in the territory will be present, highlighting the role of designations of origin and protected geographical indications, rural development groups, producers and marketers, the tourism sector, restoration and food, as well as of deputies, researchers and training and experimentation centres. The wine sector has in recent years become one of the most dynamic and internationalized sectors of our agricultural economy, which in Galicia is structured around five designations of origin: Ribeiro, Valdeorras, Rías Baixas, Monterrey and Ribeira Sacra; and four protected indications such as: Val do Mine, Betanzos, Barbaza and Iria and Ribeiras do Morrazo. That is why, Counsellor, taking into account the importance of this sector as a dynamizer, employment generator and wealth in rural areas and in the territories and regions where it extends, from the People's Parliamentary Group, we want to ask you the following question: what are the fundamental objectives of the strategy of economic, territorial and tourist dynamisation of the wineries in Galicia? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u338	Thank you, Mr. Blanco. Answer from the Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u339	Good afternoon, gentlemen. I usually say that Galicia is a world; from north to south, from east to west, every corner of our land is unique. All of this makes the five designations of origin that you mentioned, although they're very close geographically to each other, be they, however, very different. That is why we can strongly state that the wine sector is a key sector for the cohesion of this land. And today we're talking about the wine sector in Galicia is talking about more than thirteen thousand wine growers and more than four hundred and sixty wineries; it's talking about more than nine thousand hectares on the surface of vineyards, and it's talking about over, this year, also, 60 million kilograms of grapes produced. We are, ladies and gentlemen, at the best moment in the history of our wines. That tells us that this sector is rising and growing, still capable of that growth. It is time to plan: we must have a plan; among all, sector and public administrations, to build the wine of the future, among all. Look: wine is always present in three areas — that is why we have to join these three key areas — which are economic, rural and tourism. All together: viticulture, wineries, ethnotourism and gastronomy. Finally, value-added dynamisation boards for the territory that reach all links in the value string. We work with two fundamental objectives: the first of them is to convert the wine to the point of launching the promotion, of all agricultural production of Galician quality, and secondly, to be a dynamizing element of the territory. And for that, we have four fundamental axes: First, reinforce the tag image. Each of the designations of origin will have a umbrella, Galicia Quality, yes!, because Galicia is quality. Secondly, development of tourism products and services to provide value added to this sector. Ethnicism is a fundamental activity. Thirdly, innovation and training to achieve this generational relief that is so necessary in our agriculture, but also, of course, in wine, seeking to give better quality standards and discover ways to be more efficient. And fourth and lastly, within these four fundamental axes of strategy, the environment, environmental sustainability. This is the plan that makes Junta, with three advisories as you say, and I hope that all other public administrations involved will also assume their considerations: a strategy for the future of the Greek wine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u340	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u341	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, the truth is, this is not the first time we've been working and adding synergies to various councils of the German Government, in this case to three. Something that might seem, therefore, very obvious and simple, but that in other stages, for example, as in the two-party government stage, it would be virtually impossible to see — as we all remember — in which in the morning they shared government while they were watching and, in the afternoon, opposition was made. It's not bad to remember this at a time when political pacts and coalitions are so much talked about. It's good to remind the Greeks that they might be listening to what was going on with a two-party government, as Mrs. Pilar pointed out, imagine what would happen in a hypothetical government composed of four parties!, the fights that we would have to watch every day. Counsellor, the wine sector is very important to Galicia and, no doubt, we think this strategy will have a good welcome and will represent an impulse and an opportunity in the Greek wine regions. A sector that exports a very significant percentage of its production and looks, with concern, at what happens both to Brexit's theme and to the possible new tariffs that can be imposed from the United States, the market at which recognized quality Greek wines export thousands and thousands of bottles each year. That's why, right now and now, we can't afford to pass this opportunity to ask you about your assessment of the concern that may be going through the wine sector in Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u342	Thank you, Mr. Blanco. Close the question, Middle Rural Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u343	Thank you, Mr. President. I used to say, in my first intervention, that, indeed, the Greek wine is a product that today plays a fundamental role in what our international promotion is. We're talking about this as a sector where about thirty percent of all production is being exported. We have a lot of countries, and when I talk about a lot of people, we have eighty countries in which the Greek wines of the five designations of origin are present. And it's true that the United States is one of the countries in which we are exporting in an important way, as I say, basically Low Rías. I had the opportunity to be this same week in Madrid, at the meeting we had with the ministry, and there we were moved, firstly, a message of tranquility at the moment; it is a decision that is not yet taken and that there will be a firm stance on the part of the Spanish State — and here I want to recognize the work being done by the ministry — and there will also be a position of firmness on the part of the European Union. So our first message has to be quiet, calm, we're working there between us all and now we have to go with a message of unity as well. On the other hand, I have to say that, indeed, it affects an important part of production; as I was moving earlier, we are talking about 15 million euros of exports as far as this United States market is concerned. But it's also important to transfer that it's high value added wines and, in addition, with different quality, which is what our native varieties give us. So, I think our wine, the quality of our products, will make it better to bear these price increases. Ladies and gentlemen, we have great products. The wine is one that marks us and defines us. So we're sure that you'll be able to go ahead, even though we've had the misfortune that the rise of the tariffs had taken place, that, on the other hand, we're talking about twenty-five percent, which is not a negligible amount. I, by the way, want to transfer clearly that the Greek products, not only wine, have shown that they can compete in the markets, because they are always distinguished by their quality and their added value. Galicia must, without any doubt, continue on that line in the improvement of products and its ability to find new opportunities and new markets. Look, there's little certainty in life, but this is one of them: where a Welsh product goes, it triumphs. And I ended up with a few words from Álvaro Cunqueiro, who said, "We don't like our wines. Maybe because they're more inclined to talk than we are or because they have a fugitive taste and, when we look for them, we remember times, places, loves, goodbyes." That's how I say good-bye today. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-09-DSPG131.u344	Thank you. [[Murmurs.]] Well, here's the whole thing over, but I'm just gonna take a minute. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, it's not another statement, it's an opinion, it's a statement — and I want it to be recorded in the Minutes. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Tomorrow, 30 years from the inauguration of the Horreo palace, this building where we are. And I think, man, it was a pity I hadn't said it in the morning! —I regret — all Members had to be here. But I think it's a good time for us to thank all those who have made it possible for us to have this thirst today, a magnificent thirst. I know all the parliaments of Spain, none of them like this, I can tell you. And I feel, in addition -- and I think we can all feel -- very proud of the officials and the people who work here, as well as the people who worked at the headquarters that we had before provisionally. It is a pride for the people who come to visit Parliament to make the comments you make from this building; how they are careful, for example, the gardens of this parliament, and there are only two people — which is also very important —. So I want to have... No, no, it's just two people, but this garden... You can see it, the people who come here are absolutely amazed. So a reminder for all those who have made it possible for us to have this magnificent thirst. I remember all the workers, also the present, and all the Members, who make it possible for us today to feel proud, in the community in which we are, to have a parliament like this. Let's see what we can do. Nothing else, thank you very much.
