ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. We go into the agenda with the point first. Debates of the opinion and of the motions for resolutions adopted at the meeting of the Non-Lexislative Standing Committee on Relations with the Council of Auditors, on the monitoring reports of the Galician public sector, contained in the 2017 Annual Report on the Activities of the Council of Auditors
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u2	It incorporates draft resolution No. 1 of the People's Parliamentary Group on the adoption of the General Account of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the financial year 2016, followed by 14 motions for resolutions which were adopted by committee at its meeting on 22 February 2019. These are the motions for resolutions Nos 2 to 11 of the People's Parliamentary Group; the motions for resolutions Nos 17 and 19 — and 18 — of the Socialist Parliamentary Group; and the motion for a resolution No 9 — negotiated — of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. The President of the Non-Lexislative Commission for Relations with the Council of Auditors, Mr Daniel Varela Suanzes-Carpegna, has the floor for the presentation of the Committee's dictation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, as President of the Commission, it is necessary, before moving to the debate between parliamentary groups and the corresponding vote which will then take place, to make a brief presentation of the opinion and the proposals adopted, underlining the following: First of all, that the reports of the Galician Public Sector Supervisory Board of Auditors contained in the Annual Activity Report of 2017, which includes the Community General Account audit of 2016, have entered the Chamber on July 20 of last year. Secondly, the reports were studied in the Commission. A total of 65 motions for resolutions have been tabled. They correspond 11 to the People's Parliamentary Group, 19 to the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, 25 formulated by the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia and the remaining 10 presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. It was the corresponding statement, which met on 13 February last year and which brought the corresponding report and the motions for resolutions to the Commission. The aforesaid Commission spoke at its meeting on 22 February this year. The following should be stressed from this statement: First, it incorporates draft resolution No 1 of the People's Parliamentary Group on the adoption of the General Account of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the financial year 2016. Opinions and proposals are adopted unanimously. Even so, the remaining motions for resolutions which have been adopted in the Committee and which are now being tabled, as I say, the debate and vote in the plenary meeting are 14 in total. The Group of the People's Parliament was approved by most of them corresponding to numbers 2 to 11. And I would like to point out that it comes under paragraph 6 of the People's Parliamentary Group to paragraph 15 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. And in proposal No. 8 of the People's Group there is also the number 5 of the Socialists' Parliamentary Group. From this parliamentary group, the Socialists' Parliamentary Group, the Commission unanimously adopted the 17 and 19 numbers and also the 18 numbers which were dealt with. And finally, the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group was unanimously approved as number 9, which was also negotiated. And this is, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in summary, the wording and the motions for resolutions which are now being submitted to the group debate and to the vote in plenary meeting to comply with the provisions of Articles 5.3 of the Statute of Self-Government and Article 20 of the 6/85 Act of the Council of Auditors. Nothing else, Mr President, and thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u4	Thank you, Mr Varela. We have come to the round of parliamentary groups for the defence of their motions for resolutions and for the establishment of their position with regard to the others for a period of five minutes per group. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. Today we are debating the motions for resolutions which were made in the monitoring reports of the Italian public sector and, above all, in the 2016 General Account of the Community and the accompanying reports. This is the third debate, by calling it somehow, because it's the soliloquia we have in terms of legislation. And the truth is, we could take the Journal of Sessions from the previous times we did it and reiterate a very important part of our intervention. That's because there are two big constants although reports are different year by year. The first is that, year after year, much of the conclusions and references and reflections made by the Board itself are repetitive, repeat. And if they repeat, it's because the Galician Union doesn't incorporate them and doesn't correct the issues it should have. Hence the first repeated request by the BNG, which is simply that the Galician Board assumes as its proposals from the Board of Auditors and, when it does not assume them for some reason, that it reasonably explains it in a report and that this report is referred to the Welsh House. But another year is one of the issues that has been rejected by most of the People's Party. And secondly, it's repetitive because year by year we also see how the will and capacity of the People's Party is anecdotal or, rather, almost exotic, because of their scarcity. In this case, the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group is sure that a compromise is incorporated into the dictatorship. But it is also true that it is very little ambitious and that it is simply urged to correct the systematic non-compliance by the health agencies and foundations of the recommendations that the Board of Auditors makes every time. And, finally, this is a bit of the repetitive debate we have, because we really know, we know -- we've seen it many times -- that the People's Party thinks that having absolute majority also has absolute truth about matters. But the truth is, it's quite frustrating when it comes to something like the Board of Auditors, which should give rise to greater consensus, which shows us that there is little will to advance both transparency and to make the Board of Auditors really an instrument of exploiting all its potential. And the truth is to see the issues that the People's Party said "no" also helps to dismantle some of the myths that helped create with the demagogy and the propaganda it's used to. First of all, the myth of good managers; and secondly, the myth of defending public services. I'm going to put some example, as soon as I have, why the Board of Auditors is dismounting that myth from the good managers. For example, the Control Report on Hospital Pharmacy, what do you tell us? For it warns of the overcost of how drugs are acquired and recommends greater budgetary rigour; it recommends greater budgetary rigour in the logic that Galician Union does not have budgetary rigor and manages and plans badly. And it also points out that Sergas is failing to comply with the guiding principles of public procurement by abusing direct purchases. Also, if we look at the economic-financial report of the autonomous instrumental entities, we see that the Union has not put in place repeated issues year by year, such as the register of entities provided for in Article 52 of Lofaxga, or we see other issues, such as that those who sold us here to end up with the chiringuits actually go in the opposite direction. On the size of the autonomous instrumental sector, we are told that the reduction was tiny, residual, that it is of minimal economic importance and that it was better nominal, and that the volume of funds has grown -- it has grown by the generalization of that model of agency that we have so much criticized -- So at any rate, they would have to teach lessons in chiringuitology and not in their combat. [[Applause]] Similarly, once again the Board of Auditors insists on the underfunding of some of these societies. And, therefore, once again, we insist on proposals for political silence, how to transform that unusable Igape — as it is demonstrating the industrial decline that we will talk about at this plenary today — into a Greek Institute of Credit. But they didn't have to take this matter into account either. And finally, it also contributes to dismounting that they are really defenders of the public services of this country and tells how they really are working in the opposite direction. Examples from the Sergas General Account scope are provided and examples from the dependency scope are provided. From the scope of Sergas we have repeated them on many occasions; therefore, I will end with a reference to the scope of dependence. We are also incarcerated — we have discussed this in these months — a monitoring report on the degree of residential care to older and dependent people, a fundamental problem in this country. And what does the Board of Auditors prove? That the supply of public squares is insufficient, that there is an excessive burden on the private sector and that the deadlines for processing and waiting time do not comply with what the law says. So also since the BNG we have tabled proposals in this sense that have been rejected and proposed to alleviate the deterioration of public health and to overcome the ravages of privatization and outsourcing. But another year, the People's Party has decided to vote against and simply have accessary proposals, proposals to which they are bound by their own legal mandate, and other kinds of issues that will not entail a change of course from what in short is what the Board of Auditors oversees, which is always the resources of the Greeks and the Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u6	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u7	And it doesn't stop being, therefore, a worrying question that, once again, surprises us, but certainly lets us down. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today we will debate the opinion of the motions for resolutions adopted by the Standing Committee on Non-Lexislative Relations with the Council of Auditors on the monitoring reports of the public sector in Galicia contained in the 2017 Report on the Activities of the Council of Auditors, which also includes the General Account of the Autonomous Community of Galicia in 2016. The Socialist Parliamentary Group, from here on, we want to very positively acknowledge and value the work developed by the Board of Auditors, and from here we want to congratulate the chief adviser as well as all the employees and all the public employees who form the Board of Auditors on the rigorous work done. A rigorous work, yes, but not free of obstacles due to the lack of collaboration of the Galician Union and its entire instrumental sector; locks so that the body that has competence to monitor always has limitations to develop its functions. [[Applause]] The Board of Auditors, the external audit body of the accounts of the Italian autonomous public sector, in each of the audit reports makes a number of recommendations, which, year after year, are reiterated by the continued non-compliance, year after year, of the Galician Union; and, year after year, are reiterated by the continuing non-compliance, year after year, by the instrumental sector of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. Look, the board of Auditors was set up in Galicia thirty-four years ago; twenty-eight of these thirty-four, governed by the People's Party. And the last ten years, ruled uninterruptedly by Mr. Núñez Feijóo. And today, March 26, 2019, we are with General Account 2016, 2016! I mean, we've been at least two years late, when we should be discussing the year 2017 and, by the end of this year, we should have the year 2018. [[Applause]] What are the reasons for this delay? Well, the lack of commitment by the Galician Board to the functions it itself has assigned to the Board of Auditors. They are mainly materialized in insufficient staffing to develop control reports and insufficient staffing to develop the functions of the Anti-Corruption Section. The Galician Board washes its face by creating the Board of Auditors, washes its face with functions. But then he doesn't have enough means to be able to develop these functions, thus hiding the bad management of the Galician Union and the entire instrumental sector. For the Galician Union, both Parliament and the Council of Auditors are a theatre, and you and we are nothing but actors who represent a role. Look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the senior adviser, in a commission of the Board of Auditors, said textually: "Reports are a fruit of the work of the auditors, of all the Council technicians, who are evidently approved by the plenary of the Board of Auditors; that is, they are referred to throughout the institution." The whole institution of the Board of Auditors therefore states, year after year, for example, that, in relation to the measures taken by the Autonomous Community to comply with the recommendations made in the 2015 Monitoring Report, i.e., the previous year, no significant progress has been made, and therefore, in view of its insufficient degree of implementation, they will be reiterated in the present report. "In the recommendations", he said, "it is necessary for the Administration to address urgently the entities that integrate the budgetary perimeter and the General Account." By the way, a recommendation put by the People's Party is to "follow." Keep assuming it's already started, and the Galician Union hasn't started anything, don't come here to wash his face. That's why, for that reason, we do not agree with the motions for resolutions put forward by the People's Party. They cannot "follow" when it is not started. "Approving a new public accounting plan of the Autonomous Community" — a new public accounting accounting plan is an instruction for 2010 and continues to use a 2005 2005 2005 year, ladies and gentlemen and ladies of the People's Party—; "Adrov a new public accounting plan of the Autonomous Community to approve a new public accounting plan for the Autonomous Community" — a new public accounting plan for 2010 is an instruction for 2010, and they continue to use one 2005 of 2005!, People's Party of 2005!, ladies and ladies and gentlemen and ladies of the People's Party—; "Adroving forward the performance deadline of the General Account performance plan of the General Account; "Adroving the memory, in particular the financial accounting plan of the financial statements, and the aggregated state of future spending commitments made by the autonomous public sector; limiting the use of the 621B programme, determining the policy of the Contitent Fund 621B; "reputable use of the past years of years; "protion and analysis and analysis of years; "; "this "has been put in place in force of years of years; "; "and have 'and have 'and have 'and have '; "was the existence, given, given the existence of years of years of years of years of years, since, since, has added; "has added; "has added; "has added; "has added; has added; "has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; "has has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added to years; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; has added; [[Applause]] Well, we have put forward 25 motions for resolutions, and of course we are going to vote in favour of two, simply, that we have been subsumed, two that have been approved and one that has been negotiated. And in the rest of the People's Party, we're going to abstain from that "follow," when it's not even started. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u11	Good morning. In the five minutes of this formal procedure we are not going to defend the motions for resolutions of our group, because we already know what the outcome would be, what the result is. We've been the same for three years. The knee of the absolute majority of the People's Party prevents this House from playing its role, prevents it in multiple debates but also in matters relating to the Board of Auditors. The Board of Auditors is a Parliamentary body which has a fundamental role to play in monitoring the actions of governments and in combating corruption. We think the Board of Auditors is a fundamental organ in the functioning of a democracy worthy of that name, and that's why I'm going to spend the four minutes remaining to defend the Board of Auditors, to defend it from the contempt that the People's Party applies to it, both from the Executive and from the parliamentary majority. You must monitor and fight corruption. That's why it's perfectly understood that the People's Party devalues the role of the Board of Auditors, because its role is to monitor and combat corruption. How does this contempt do? I'll put four examples. First, the workplan. The Board of Auditors approved its work plan on December 20 last year. And do you know when that work came to the Board of Auditors? On March 15th, three months later, with the year already well advanced. Second, there's a very limited amount of means. The Board of Auditors hasn't changed its personal picture in the last 15 years, I don't know. Of course he hasn't increased his template since he was given a fundamental task, which is to prevent and fight corruption. This is emblematic of the strategy of the People's Party. He told the Board of Auditors to act against corruption but no more euro is given to him or one more person to carry out this function. The third is the veto that the People's Party exercises on the rest of the parliamentary groups so that we can act on the Council's work plan. We respect that the Board of Auditors, of course, has an initiative. But we think that the Board of Auditors is a body that depends on Parliament, which depends on popular sovereignty, and has to be at the service of Parliament. In that sense, I'm going to give a fact that shows what the role of the People's Party is in the work report of the Board of Auditors for the year 2019. There are 26 reports of the Board of Auditors on its own initiative. Do you know how many reports you have in your work plan at Parliament's request? He's got five. Fourthly, there is the Executive's absolute disregard for the Board's recommendations. I was bringing the paper that the Companion Begoña has already read. That paragraph in the report of the Board of Auditors should be sufficient for the People's Party to apologize and the Government to make excuses. The Board of Auditors says, year after year, that the recommendations they make in their reports are not implemented by the German Government, and that it does not explain why it does not implement them. And then the Board of Auditors says, "We have responded to the recommendations that have been made for many years now." Which government, that fundamental body in a mature democracy, as are the boards of accounts, despises that absolute form that compels it to reiterate the same recommendations from year to year seven or eight years ago? I'm done. We welcome the work of the Board of Auditors, without any doubt, and we take the words of the Socialist Party Member. But we also want to have a critical position, because this whole devaluation strategy that makes the People's Party from the Executive and from the clear Lexilative that has an impact on the functioning of the Board of Auditors. And I'll give you two opinions. First, the Board of Auditors has been responsible for the prevention of corruption for four years — the law was reformed in August 2015 — and so far no work on this new role has been presented in this House. Four years!, corruption seems not to be a problem that is in such a hurry. Second, the stagnation in the business model of the Board of Auditors. The Board of Auditors — the Chief Adviser has acknowledged him — is limited, it clears itself!, to monitor the legality of the Government's proceedings, and does not progress in what the Board of Auditors itself itself and, of course, all the people who work on these issues say, that it is in their role — that it has to go further — to do operational audits; that is, the cost-benefit analysis of how to serve the decisions of governments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u12	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u13	I'm done. As we support the Board of Auditors, because we believe that it is essential for a living body to monitor government action and fight corruption, we will vote against the Commission report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u14	Thank you, Mr. Lago. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u15	Well, thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. Mr Lago, let's focus on the debate. We are not before the discussion of the recommendations to the Board of Auditors, we are before the debate on the motions for resolutions on the control reports already agreed in the debate. I don't know if you couldn't participate in the presentation because you forgot to register as rapporteur and couldn't participate, or because you're so careless. But essentially we are here today to approve the General Account of the Autonomous Community, which, as the whole institution of the Board of Auditors declares, reasonably reflects the economic and financial activity of the year 2016. The usefulness of these reports — that reports, ladies and gentlemen, are not just a paragraph, I am not just a paragraph — is that they provide a guide on how to further improve the management of public accounts. And this is what's happening, that every year, with each new controlled exercise, we find ourselves with more achievements and more indicators of this good management. The General Account report of 2016 notes that the Galician Board continues to introduce improvements in its budgetary and financial management while meeting the objectives of budgetary stability and with a very positive evolution of indicators such as gross savings — which doubled in 2016 to EUR 450 million — or interest-debt expenditure — with a saving of 65 million in interest—. But it is shown that, a more controlled year, Galicia meets the deficit target, meets the forecast of GDP growth and the rate of unemployment, meets the target of deficit and meets the limit of financial burden. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that we have become one of the most indebted communities -- in 2009 we were the fifth most indebted community -- to be the fifth with the lowest indebtedness. The Board of Auditors recognises, in turn, the important improvement in the sustainability index, which allows us to deal successfully with this debt. And today, with the latest data published, we're the fourth with a lower debt ratio, a ratio that has been reduced again in 2018. Reports confirm that a high budget execution has been achieved, improving with regard to the previous exercise. The use of budgetary changes — a 56% lower than the previous exercise — has been significantly reduced. We recognize the important effort the Government is making to reduce the expenditure shifted, accumulating a 44% drop since 2013, as well as greater control and better treasury management — it finds that we are the autonomous community that better and faster pays to its suppliers, a trend, gentlemen, that will continue in the following years 2017 and 2018—. With the year 2018 closed, this good management is confirmed with the fulfilment again of all parameters of the stability rules, a very good management that allows us to count for the first time since 2002 with surplus, gentlemen. We're talking about 125 million euros from Galicia. Those who criticize the budget management of the Union and supported the worst state budgets for Galicia in many years should remember that the deficit that is generating Mr. Sánchez's election Fridays are compensating for Galicia's surplus, exceeding the result of exemplary financial management should have, if they could not, at least, responsibility, and recognize the positive management of the Union, join in the demands of President Feijóo and demand that we be allowed to spend the 125 million euros that correspond to us. [[Applause]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the surplus of Galicia and the municipalities is financing the deficit that Mr. Sánchez is generating; one shows more of Sánchez's constant and continuous aggravation with Galicia. That's why, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, that's why he's more indigested than in accounting technical matters. We put forward motions for resolutions, of course, on the basis of these reports, to continue to comply with the recommendations made. I remind you that this is the first time we have a follow-up report on the recommendations made by the Board of Auditors, which shows that 60 percent of the recommendations made between 2012 and 2015 are being implemented or under implementation. We want to continue to meet the targets of the debt deficit by reducing the expenditure in interest, budgetary changes and shifted expenditure; improving the management of the Board's accounts; reviewing the content of the General Account Memory structure, as requested by the Board of Auditors; improving the supervision of public spending, and in the health area, we want to continue to be the autonomous communities with the highest per capita investment and the highest percentage of their GDP devoted to public health. I'm done, Mr. President. We accept from the opposition all those proposals that make progress in improving the control of spending on social services, public agencies or health foundations, but we want the Government to continue to manage public funds with responsibility, as it has been doing these years. That's why we can't accept others about debt or budgetary management that start from false premises in their formulations. One more year, it has been verified that the Board is an example of rigor and solvency, which manages in a reliable, true and fulfilling manner with the current legislation and that the General Account can be approved because it has no significant saving and reflects the economic and financial activity that any accounting intends. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. At the end of the debate, we proceeded to the vote. Close the doors, please. Let's get started. First we vote on the dictates and then we vote on the proposals. First, we are voting on the dictatorship, which incorporates motion for a resolution No. 1 of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia on the adoption of the General Account of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the financial year 2016. We vote. Voting of the Ditame issued by the Non-Lexislative Standing Committee on Relations with the Council of Auditors in relation to the monitoring reports of the public sector in Galicia contained in the 2017 Annual Report on the Activities of the Council of Auditors. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 74. The voting is positive. It is therefore approved by 74 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u17	We are now voting on the motions for resolutions. [[Mr Rodríguez Rumbo asks for the floor.]] Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo? Give Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo a voice, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. We would like to request that in the second vote, in the motions for resolutions, where "2 to 11" should be divided into 6 and 8 and, on the other hand, from 2 to 5, to 7 and from 9 to 11. I mean just separating 6 and 8.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u19	I mean, just 6 and 8? All the others together?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u20	The rest would stay the same.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u21	The rest of you together?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u22	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u23	Eighteen?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u24	So where do you say, "2 to 11."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u25	Two to 11?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u26	There they would be, on the one hand, 6 and 8 and on the other, the other, which would be 2 to 5, 7 and 9 to 11.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u27	The rest of them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u28	That's right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u29	So, explain, because this has its complications. Give a voice to Mr. Leicega's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u30	Look, please, if you could group up to 6, 8, 9, and 18, and the rest vote them together.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u31	That's right. Is there anything else? Then we vote. Is that so? Isn't that right? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, then it's all right. Let's vote. If it seems to you, on the motions for resolutions, we shall vote first on 6th on 8th on 9th and 18. We vote. Vote for motions for resolutions Nos 6, 8 and 9 of the G.P. Galician populace, and number 18 trafficked from G.P. of the Galician Socialists. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 54; votes against, 14; abstentions, 6. The voting is positive. These motions for resolutions are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u32	We now vote on the rest of the proposals. We vote. Voting the motions for resolutions adopted by the Commission except those which have already been voted on. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; votes against, 14; abstentions, 20. The voting is positive. These motions for resolutions are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u33	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. We continue with point 2, legislating text. Debate taken into account by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, regulator of the activity of interest groups in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u34	For the presentation of the bill, Mr. Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada, by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u35	Good morning, ladies. We started this tenth deep-seated legislation in the devastating effects of a deep economic crisis, of the great recession that began in 2008 at the global level, with critical effects for our country and, in a special way, on unemployment and growing inequality. In Spain, this economic crisis — but, above all, the social crisis — has been affected by the widespread wave of political corruption and economic corruption, which leads to the legitimization of our democratic system and our institutional quality; corruption, by the way, has advanced students. All political, social and economic agents have an inescapable obligation to defend the mechanisms of struggle and prevention against corruption. This task is absolutely necessary not only to regain trust in institutions — in free fall, according to successive opinion barometers — but also to provide a more transparent economic framework and therefore more competitive, homologable to other more advanced societies in indicators of democratic quality and civic coexistence. Therefore, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has put the fight against corruption as one of its main lines of parliamentary action in this tenth legislation. Initiatives systematically defended in this chamber are irrefutable proof of this commitment; most of them are rejected or postponed by the Popular Parliamentary Group. The protection of persons reporting cases of corruption, the anti-fraud plans in autonomic public procurement, the abolition of the reinforcement of Members and Members of this Chamber — which has reached a unanimous agreement, although it would require a statutory reform — or the proposed law that we present today for its consideration are — we believe — clearly a firm commitment to our democratic quality and to the necessary public exemplaryness, and we believe that it must achieve the necessary parliamentary consensus. I'm reading some notes from a book in which I think a more interesting review is made and an X-ray of the situation of our country's economy, The End of Disgusting, by Antón Costas, there are a couple of considerations that I think are appropriate for this debate, because it says that in Spain a concessional and subsidised capitalism has developed which is procluse to corruption. If we want to reduce corruption, we have to end this kind of retaliation and predatory capitalism. It identifies two key factors in this equation to reduce corruption -- a corruption that is seriously, of course, also against the competitiveness of our economic capacity. The first factor is transparency, understood as the citizen's right to know and the obligation of administrations to respond; and the democratic quality, understood as the demanding attitude of the media and public opinion in general to investigate, inform and denounce cases of corruption. The greater these factors of transparency and democratic quality, the less the incidence of corruption in our country and therefore also in Galicia. We all know important interest groups, important pressure groups, important energy lobbyies — Carbonion, Nuclear Forum, Protemosolar, Unesa in electrical matters, Seats — which are the most important pressure groups in our country and which most affect not only the economic agenda, but also the political agenda. But we also know the ability to influence the public authorities — especially the executive powers — of the food industry, the hotel industry, the banking sector — of course — of the insurance sector, the pharmaceutical industry, Seopan, or logically the automotive sector. Recently, we have all lived and are experiencing the pressure of huge groups of interest, groups that become pressure on new technologies: Cabify, Airbnb, Uber, Amazon, Facebook, etc. Today there is an interesting debate also in the European Parliament about intellectual property rights and the extent to which the capacity of digital freedom is reached. In the report — which I think is a good reference to follow on these issues — which has drawn up International Transparency Spain there for 2014 — not so long ago — and in what was an evaluation of the lobbyies in Spain, with a series of analyses and proposals, it was clearly said that the lack of conceptual clarity and regulation with regard to interest groups and lobbys is, on many occasions, the confusion between these groups and the trafficking of influences. But while pressure groups and lobbyists assume a certain balance, a priori, in this field of play, the trafficking of influences, quite the opposite: it consists of abuse of normally illegal, illegal and, on many occasions, criminal typification. So we have a lot to fight to clarify this playing field. We have already pointed out on one occasion that the Eurobarometer pointed out to us that seventy-seven percent of Spanish people believe that corruption is part of business culture and sixty-seven percent considers that the only way to succeed in business in Spain is political connections. But what's more serious: these perceptions give us that ninety-one percent of companies consider the links between money and politics to be excessive. It is enough to be a spectator of the main judicial cases — which are ravaging this country — of corruption, to be aware of this serious problem, not only political or economic, but primarily social. The Green Paper — as we have also pointed out on one occasion — on the European initiative for transparency, drawn up by the European Commission in 2006, defines lobbism as a legitimate part of the democratic system, irrespective of whether this activity is carried out by individuals, companies, civil society organisations or other interest groups responsible for institutional relations or professional offices. It's an activity that must be public, so that citizens have full access to information about everything that affects the behaviour of institutions and public and political leaders. As on another occasion in the committee we pointed out, already in 2015, at a parliamentary meeting, that President of the Galician Competition Council clearly referred to certain agents who intervene in the market as special focus on free competition and therefore sectors more than to develop pressure on regulatory authorities when agreeing on public policies. There was talk at that meeting by the president of the Galician Competition Council, of the value chain of the dairy sector, of the electricity distribution or also of the fuel distribution. The president of this chamber — we have commented on it on more than one occasion — in December 2016, which has just begun this legislation, indicated that the agenda of self-employed Members would be promoted and that they would be public for citizenship. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr President - or the Vice-President in this case - we call on this commitment before this tenth legislation is over. Like the advanced states of our surroundings, the institutions of the European Union or some autonomous communities, Galicia must also take all necessary measures to strengthen the legitimacy of its government and its institutions and thus reduce the perception of systemic corruption. The regulation of lobbying, the regulation of interest groups, is one of the steps needed to reduce the risk of corruption and thus improve quality and transparency in making public and political decisions in Galicia. And that is why, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, in the area of regulating the activities of interest groups, we have, of course, presented more than one initiative, because in the Commission we had the opportunity to debate this initiative on 23 March 2018, which was rejected by the People's Parliamentary Group in full. And being aware of the lack of these arguments put forward by the People's Group in order to reject this lobby regulatory initiative, we also put a question to Commission 3a, in which leaders of the Presidency Council answered that Galicia had no competence and that there was a need for a state-based framework or that it was a very complex issue. These were some of the answers in Commission 3 that we had the opportunity to debate on 28 September last year. That is why we have announced from the Socialist Parliamentary Group that we would present a legislative initiative to regulate, precisely in our community, the activity — I insist, legitimate, but we must control, regulate and make transparent — of the various groups of interest, which become pressure groups. That is why avoiding opacity, ladies and gentlemen, is essential in order to be able to guarantee general interest and properly monitor the actions of public authorities, as it has been put in place and is still being systematically expressed by international institutions, the European Commission or the Council of Europe. And there are a number of public authorities that have been regulating this activity in recent years, where there are already several autonomous communities. With this law, ladies and gentlemen, we intend to incorporate into Galicia's own legislation the regulatory principles that international bodies have reflected in these recommendations, an activity that must be public so that citizens have full access to information about everything that affects the behaviour of institutions and authorities, also in Galicia. Law 1/2016, of transparency and good governance, of course leaves out of its scope the specific activity of interest groups, which must be subject to regulation and therefore a specific formulation in the field of promoting transparent dialogue with these groups by society, and their involvement in the design of public policies. We note that in the subjective scope of this very 2016 law, taken forward by the Government of Greece and in which any other type of regulation of measures against corruption and fraud is excused, interest groups are only taken into account when there is some type of contractual linkage or there is, of course, some kind of grant by the Self-Government. This law therefore prevails; with this law, the Socialist Parliamentary Group presents an initiative to overcome the omission of Galicia and the Greek Government in the regulation of interest groups, although, as we say, from the point of view of the planning, recommendations and models adopted in the European institutions, we have experience of remaining in order to be able to incorporate them. The law is structured — as you know — into five titles: it clearly delineates the activity of interest groups; it establishes a relevant register of interest groups of a public character and free of charge in order to give knowledge of the citizenship of the identity of persons and organizations, as well as of the activities they carry out before the Council of Galicia, and which we do not know normally, which implies the necessary and inescapable application of the principles of transparency and publicity in relation to the autonomous administration, and establishes at least a code of conduct which can be improved by the interest groups that note in this register and provides for the necessary mechanisms for verifying the data reached in this register. Furthermore, fourthly, the text of the proposal for a law which we now bring to this consideration debate sets out the necessary coordination with the functions of the Commissioner for Transparency, a function assigned to the institution of the People's Valedor, and it includes, in a main way, what in the doctrine we call the normative footprint, which refers to the necessary publicity of the contacts that the Public Administration maintains with interest groups during the drafting of normative projects — both draft laws and draft decrees — and should be reflected in a clear and transparent manner in a report to be published in the Transparency Portal and of what should be reported to this chamber, to ensure precisely that the activity of the pressure groups is transparent and non-disproportionate. This tool, ladies and gentlemen, ultimately allows and pursues to improve the quality of standards, to abound in practices that define good government and to reduce the number of disputes, to the extent that conflict resolution is facilitated in stages prior to the adoption of the legal precepts that must govern situations in which diverse interests converge. Finally, this bill collects the necessary sanctioning regime and provides for mechanisms — also necessary — of collaboration and cooperation with the local Galician administration and with this chamber to promote transparency among the different interest groups in these respective areas. Ladies and gentlemen, why are other communities like Navarre — in 2018 — like Aragon — in 2017 — like Catalonia — as in 2014 — like Castile-A Mancha — in 2018 — and, in a special way, like the Valencian Community — in 2018 — regulated and waged for bringing forward clear and transparent regulation of the activity of interest groups? Why doesn't Galicia put light and tachygraphs on the relations of the public authorities — legislative yes, but, in the main, executive public authorities — with interest groups, with lobbyists? Galicia, in that sense, I don't think you can follow up on measures to prevent and fight corruption. It must not be neglected in the lack of competence; in this matter there is no need for any kind of state basic framework, and the models that we have incorporated by European institutions are clear when regulating the presence in interest registers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u36	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u37	...—and final, president—of the different advisory groups, of the different business groups, non-governmental organizations, organizations representing academic interests, researchers, religious, etc.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u39	Finally, we believe that this regulation of interest groups is absolutely accurate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u40	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u41	...for Galicia to light up and tachographs to the relations of economic powers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u42	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u43	...with public powers. Thank you, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u44	Thank you very much. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the BNG, Mrs Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u45	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Since the BNG we are not going to oppose the regulation, as this initiative proposes today to defend the Socialist Party, this bill. In no case will we oppose the activity of interest groups — as Mr Villoslada said — or pressure groups or, more commonly referred to as lobbyists. This bill continues — it was explained, and is also referred to in the explanatory statement — that line opened in other countries; previously it was mentioned the case of Catalonia in 2014 or, more recently, the Valencian or Navarre Country in 2018. In addition, it follows the marked guidelines — Mr Villoslada also commented on by the European Commission in 2011, in that interinstitutional agreement to which reference was also made. We also believe — as Mr Villoslada said in his intervention — that the economic crisis and, in particular, the political crisis so brutal that we have been living in recent years, but, in particular, those numerous cases of corruption that have emerged in the light since 2009 — for example, with the most well-known Gürtel plot — were the ones that have shown or manifested the obscene, absolutely obscene link that exists between economic power and political power, as it has become apparent or has been evidenced through these plots of corruption — which are still being tried in many cases today — and how the Official State Bulletin was put to the service of the interests of the large corporations and the great capital in the Spanish state. This situation, although it has been more acutely manifested in the Spanish State, is not exclusive to the State either, has motivated that new policy framework or has inspired that new policy framework, which is in some way — so we understand it also from the BNG — a marketing strategy, and also a certain facial wash, in view of that enormous influence exerting these pressure groups, those interest groups — especially the large corporations — on governments. You were referring, Mr. Villoslada, to the names of lobbyists, companies that are commissioned to serve as a link, precisely, between large corporations and political power, but ultimately, who exerts that influence, who exerts such pressure, is the great capital: the great corporations and the great economic and financial interests. In that sense, we understand that it is right to define what is a lobby, what are those pressure groups, and to create a mandatory record; currently, in the Spanish State, if I don't miss my memory, there is a record that is voluntary and that is not compulsory. We also agree to establish a code of conduct such as what is marked or collected in that bill or to create mechanisms, also provided for in the legislative proposal itself, to establish mechanisms of control and verification that this code of conduct is complied with and that, in addition, in the case of non-compliances, sanctions are established and collected; quite demanding, on the other hand, when we often talk about ingenious business volumes. In any case, that would remain for the parliamentary procedure. It's fine — I insist — we agree with that, but if you allow me, it also seems, to some extent, innocent, if you allow me to express it. Most of the traps are not even made in sight, nor do they often prevent the codes of conduct that can be collected in proposals or in legislative texts like what we are discussing today. The pressure, that influence, is exerted many times between bambalins and, in addition, practices that are not practically collected in any code of conduct. There are things that don't get into regulation, but they have a lot to do with the decency of who is in politics or who has, in many cases, government responsibilities and therefore manages an important part of political power. I brought two examples — we could put a lot of them, and some of the sectors I'll appoint already referred to by you in your intervention — to give evidence of the limitations of this kind of regulation, which we think well, and I insist that we vote in favour of the process of processing, of taking into consideration this bill, but which we think -- I said -- a little innocent. I'll put two examples: One, the electric sector — Mr. Villoslada referred to in his speech —: the energy owners in the Spanish state took — and I took a phrase that was heard on one occasion in this chamber — in a taxi or in a Scene; they took those five companies that practically control the ninety-five percent of the energy production in the Spanish state, the ninety-nine percent of the distribution of that energy and almost eighty percent of the commercialization of that electricity in the Spanish state. The energy and electricity sector in the Spanish state is, along with the bank, what most power and influence over political power. It's not the only one, but it's one of the most influential and powerful sectors in the Spanish state, which is why, if we go to our bills, we can see how more than 50 percent of the price we pay in the bill of light is a political decision, it has nothing to do with the electrical consumption that we actually do as users or as consumers. Endessa, Iberdrola, Natural Gas... there are almost half a hundred ex-high public charges, or relatives of these, that at some time have been or are still sitting on the board of directors of these companies, in a word that we would like you to refer to — speaking of pressure groups and the power exerting economic power over political power — that are those rotating doors. And I brought names that -- I'm sure -- many of the people who are here know, and well: Felipe González, in Natural Gas until 2015; José María Aznar, in Endesa until 2014; Elena Salgado or Pedro Solbes, also in Endesa, and Acebes or Manuel Marín, in Iberdrola. They are examples of how there is no need or even many times that there are such intermediaries, these lobbyists, to exercise control by the great economic and financial capital over political power in the Spanish State. It is an example of this, that of the electricity sector, which is also obscene and is studied in depth, of that influence which exerts economic power, great capital, on governments. I can put them, in addition, without leaving this electric sector, a closer example and also more visual — as I say — that photograph, that famous hug between the president of Iberdrola and a younger Feijóo, just arrived as president of the board of Galicia to Mount Pio. One of the first decisions that the People's Party made since 2009, when it regained power in the Galician Union, it was unlawfully annulled — they will remember — because it was considered by the Supreme Court in firm judgment, the wind competition of the Bipartite. Chances of life, the most belligerent company had been, precisely, with that wind competition of the Bipartite had been Iberdrola; that president of Iberdrola knew well who he was hugging. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Without leaving much of the energy sector either, but if I'm already going to another economic sector, also of a great deal of time in these days — we'll talk about it through the question that the president of Galicia's board will ask the national spokesperson of BNG: the case of Energy & Cellular, Once, another example of this obscene relationship and the interferences that make the great capital in political power. Not to go back much further: It was privatized in 1995; it began, with the Government of the PP of José María Aznar, the process of privatization and culminates in the second term, already with an absolute majority — in 2001—. [[Applause]] But you will remember, a little more recently, that Ence has obtained a 60-year extension thanks to the People's Party and the Government in function of Mariano Rajoy. During the time when he ruled, above all, the People's Party, by the hand of José María Aznar — who is now also on the candle again — they will remember that they have made a political career names that will sound a lot to them: the Minister of the Environment, Mrs. Isabel Tocino; what was that councillor of Montes and Environment, Carlos del Alamo, or the Secretary of State, a gentleman named Pascual Fernández. Yes, Pascual Fernández. [[One honourable Member speaks words which are not perceived.]] You may not sound to anyone; you are councillors and councillors of the board of directors. We have brought these examples to show -- I insist -- that there are issues that stand aside from the codes of conduct and aside from creating a log that sheds some light on the pressure groups and practices of these groups or that these groups develop. We, from the BNG, are going to support law consideration; if it comes out, we will get closer to improving and enriching the text...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u46	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u47	...knowing that it's not panacea, I insist, because there are issues that depend on the interests of those who respond to political organizations and on the service of who we are...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u48	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u49	...that we're here. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u50	Thank you very much. Mrs Santos Queiruga has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u51	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. We are going to support the consideration of this initiative, and we would also like to suggest that, as of June 16, 2017, we call on the European Parliament, in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, to call on the Council of Galicia to create and promote an effective law of Portuguese lobbyists and to promote the interests of the whole of society and of the Greeks and Greeks. And by that time, the three opposition groups have voted in favour, giving the Government the initiative so that it can resolve this problem. Before the scandal of the Gürtel trial and its sentence arose, and before the Rajoy Government had been evicted for these reasons through the motion of censure, we were already insisting on these issues, and yet the People's Party has already stood in favour of not fighting corruption, voting against and distinguishing itself from the other groups of what would be a support to the initiative of creating this law. And, of course, today hasn't changed the reasons why our group has pushed that initiative, and we believe the fundamental importance of the drive and creation of a law of Welsh lobbyists. In today's Greek society there are many actors who try to influence political life — as we explain at that time. We are at the door of new historical elections in our country, and it makes more sense, after all that has happened in this legislation, the regulation and will and clarity of all political groups as to what their commitment to the fight against corrupt cloacas that destroyed the legitimacy and image of our institutions in the whole state, and in Galicia as well. Companies, media or foundations are some examples of agencies that want to have decision-making power in public policies that the Union develops and that are not presented to elections. On most occasions — not in practical terms, all of them — the Greeks and the Greeks do not know whether a person or body participates in the development of a given self-regulation, thus favoring us in the decision-making process and introducing among society the feeling of not knowing whether it is really legislating for the benefit of all of us, of all citizens, or of a privileged sector. This problem puts on the table the need to improve transparency through a regularization of these types of actions, a regularization that could be achieved through a Welsh lobby law, as we explained in June 2017. A law that would have as its ultimate objective that all Greeks and Greeks know in a clear and direct way what people — or organisms that have been representing — are trying to influence this normative development at the autonomous level and that they try to influence the decisions of the German Government. The Greek society cannot continue to live in the obscurantism which has embarrassed us and has made us convulsive to the judgments, constant accusations which have suffered the public representatives and the convictions that have already been fragrating since the trials. Because without transparency and without direct and true information, democracy is only a term that has no meaning whatsoever. lobbyists or pressure groups must be regulated, interests represented by lobbyists cannot go against the majority of society, as is happening; they cannot be allowed in a country like ours. The problem lies, precisely, in that, when behind a supposed advisory or influence by lobbyists, there are hidden interests in order to benefit illegally and perniciously to other parties and, above all, to the whole of citizens. A Welsh lobby law could put a stop to acts like this, so that they don't rule who doesn't come to the elections and who don't make decisions who don't come to the elections. We can't have wet paper governments that are puppets of other economic powers and other elites that we don't know most of the citizens. Let's put two clear examples, which also happened in Galicia, to show the necessity of this law: one that, although it was from the previous legislation, we still have recorded in our mind — it was the preliminary draft aquaculture law of Galicia — and, also, that case of attempt — although it was by a much smaller company — of the company Monbus, who tried, through the Advisory Council, to change a public transport regulation of Galicia. The Preview of Aquaculture Law threw thousands of sailors and marishers on the street to reject a preliminary draft of law that had its frontal opposition, and finally the sector managed to get Counselor Rosa Quintana to feel obliged to withdraw that initiative. This pre-project caused great unrest between the sea sector in Galicia, since, among other measures, it implied the privatization of our rivers to large multinational aquatics. Dark business behind this norm. Which companies negotiated with the Galician Union to push this regulation? Big salmon production multinationals, maybe? To avoid this kind of thing it is necessary to create a law of lobbying for Galicia, because today, after all that social convulsion and that withdrawal from the draft law, we still have no answers to those questions that not only the sea sector was asked, but many of us. We do not know, but we do. We want to know that organisms try to influence the creation of a law; for us it is a basic thing to maintain good democratic health in Galicia. With regard to the company Monbus, which tried, through the Consultative Council, to change Galician public transport regulations, it is also a case for us to highlight, because we saw how the president of Monbus, Raúl López, tried through the president of the Galician Consultative Council, that his transport company had benefited from a change in the regulations of public transport in Galicia. This was added through hearings in the context of Operation Cóndor: that Mr López tried to contact — and he contacted — Mr. Costas Pillado, President of the Advisory Council, to try to find out what steps had to be taken so that the Board would request a report on the rules of public transport in Galicia. It was assumed that he was attempting to issue a favourable report, through the Advisory Council, to this company by Mr Raúl López. So let's repeat: we've heard of this attempt by this businessman in the framework of a judicial investigation, the Condor operation, but how many more cases will there be like this? Although this, Mr. López, has gone wrong, because precisely the legislation, the laws are the ones that can try to curb these kinds of actions, and it would be essential for political transparency in Galicia. Once we again expose — as we did then — the problem comes logically to the solution. From our group we believe that the future Welsh lobby law should count — as we explained in 2017 — with four fundamental pillars: The lobbying law would affect all legal regulations powered by the Galician Union; all laws that were developed at the Greek level should necessarily also be regulated by a future Welsh lobbying law. We also believe that it is essential to create a register of lobbyists; we believe it is essential that it contains a register of lobbyists this law, where the name of each person and the sector or body that is representing is specified, in addition to necessarily taking control of the people who are included and the proposals or reformulations that have contributed to the development of the rule. This is not collected to its own extent, which is empty of content, of resources and of application, which is the law of transparency and good government; therefore it is fundamental this Greek law of lobbying. The definition of authorities subject to this law, the public actors who are subject to this law, in our understanding, must be the president of the Union, the various members of the German Government, officials or any other person who influences the creation of a certain standard. And finally, a fourth pillar, which would be the code of good practice for lobbyists: a document that would shape the principles that lobbyists should be guided by, such as transparency, professionalism, publicity, and promotion, defense and representation that private interests do not go against the public interest and the social majority. In addition, lobbyists should deliver true information to their client and refrain from pushing or publishing any kind of confidential information in the prejudice of those who advise or the government or administrations they want to influence. To end, the processing or the adoption of this law, which is necessary for all governments, not only for those who have been evicted from the Central Government by a conviction for corruption, is, precisely, to show that they stand in favour of the fight against corruption that has seriously harmed our democratic system and our welfare state. And we hope that, on this occasion, the People's Party will change its sense of vote and vote in favour, and that they will not follow the criteria and continue to think about the reasons that have led them to do all the things they've been doing in recent years...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u52	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u53	...and they caused, and ended, the ruling of the People's Party Gürtel; an appointment of a corrupt Rajoy government anti-corruption prosecutor like Mr. Moix; an ex-Minister of Justice, Mr. Gallardón, charged with corruption...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u55	...or, as we heard on March 19, 2019 — this year — when the National Court charged for corruption Mr. Alfredo Prada, former councillor of Aguirre and Mr. Married's election to combat corruption of the People's Party. Let's hope the lobbys are also regulated within your party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u56	Your time is up, Mrs. Santos. [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga speaks words that are not perceived.]] Your time is up. Let's see if we stick to the time we've got. The People's Parliamentary Group has the floor to Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Today the Socialist Group brings here a proposal for a regulation of interest groups in Galicia. A question, by the way, that does not occur to the Socialist Group, but comes from a recommendation from the Greek, the Group of States against Corruption. But it happens, ladies and gentlemen, that the Greek directs the recommendations to the State, and not to the autonomous communities; it directs them to Spain, in particular, and not to Galicia, and in particular two measures, Mr Villoslada: one, because it says that in Spain justice is not entirely independent, probably by the procedure we have for the election of judicial bodies, and says that interest groups are not regulated, so that no one meets and who talks to the deputies and the senators; it does not speak of the Government, Mr Díaz. Specifically, you take Greek's recommendation to your convenience and modify it and address it to the Government. No, the recommendation is for whom we meet Members and Senators, and the recommendation goes directly to the State. I want to read it textually, because you tell me not to head: Greek recommends "the introduction of rules on how parliamentarians should relate to pressure groups and to third parties trying to influence the legislative process." You forget today we're legislative. Here was anyone who even wanted to become a judge and bring here to judge each other; no, we're legislative. And, of course, the recommendation is exclusively for parliamentarians — it does not mention governments — and you refer it, curiously, to the Union and, curiously, forget what concerns you personally and all the Members of this House, Mr Villoslada; it is somewhat surprising. We've already said that we'd rather wait to see how this matter is regulated at the state level before we legislate it in the autonomous community. But if you are in such a hurry, Mr Villoslada, in the Galician Parliament we have a website on which all Members have a page where we can make public our agendas. I am really surprised that you, who is so pure, and you, who come here to give lessons of transparency, have not updated your website — in Parliament — to which we have access and that the President has for all Members and Members, and that you do not include your agenda, with whom he meets. Because everyone we're here brings together, when we legislate, people who affect legislation. To deny that is to deny reality. So I'm surprised that you, which is so thin with that transparency, don't make your schedule public when no one prevents you from doing it. In addition, he deliberately ignores what the Greek says — which only points to parliamentarians — with the only reason that you are exempt from this regulation, because the bill you bring here does not, surprisingly, affect Parliamentarians. Look: President Feijóo, before legislating himself on transparency, in March 2014 regulated an ethical code for high office, even before he was legislated through the State Transparency Act and the Greek Transparency Act. Why don't you make an amendment to your group's regulation — because they're so great in transparency — and make your agendas public, those of the Socialist Group? Oh, no, let's go to Junta, even though the Greek says they'll make a state regulation for deputies and senators, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Since it's a state regulation, you tell Mr. Sánchez that on those Fridays of the Euromillion take out a decree... [[Murmurs.]] Oh, my God! Of course! It's the Euromillion Fridays, come and give millions every Friday! But look: this has no cost, this has no cost; it won't take any money from any of those people you're feeding to vote for Mr. Sánchez on April 28. [[Applause]] Regulate and make a decree to regulate interest groups. It doesn't matter. Look: in the last debate of the state of autonomy, the People's Parliamentary Group introduced a motion for a resolution, which was number 29, which said exactly: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Council to request the Government of the State to promote the adoption of basic regulation regulating the activities of interest groups and the protection of persons reporting corruption". He had forty votes in favour and fourteen against, including that of Mrs. Santos, who is here today saying that we will change the vote. Let her change it! I am delighted that the Group of We can change its approach to regulating interest groups. He voted against the Congress of Deputies and voted against this chamber, Mrs Santos, in the last debate of the state of Autonomy, of the proposition 29. Check your vote, Mrs. Santos, they voted against it. I'm glad you've changed your mind and come here today to teach us lessons and to judge all those cases. Some have forgotten him, and now I'll remind him. Of course we're on a complex subject, Mr. Villoslada, of course. Because, among other things, you also have to regulate professional schools, which, as you know, have state regulations. What do you want us to do with them? Let's not regulate them? Or what do you want us to do? Of course, this has to be valued. Or what would you like, here in Galicia, to regulate the visa of a professional school, in Navarra in another way, in Aragon another, in Catalonia another...? No, we have to have a state regulation and then, in Galicia, we'll do as we did with the Transparency Law: when there was a law of state transparency, then we made our Transparency Law; by the way, that you didn't support, that you're here to talk... Look: it was the People's Party that presented a bill to regulate the groups of interest in the Congress of Deputies, and Mrs. Santos and her colleagues voted against; yes, Mrs. Santos. In Madrid they voted against and in Galicia they voted against, and now you come here to tell us that the People's Party is changing its mind. No, the People's Party presented a bill in Madrid and you voted against it, and it was the first time in the history of democracy that an initiative was introduced in this way. The People's Party that you so criticise, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to taking this initiative in Spain, took the initiative in Galicia, and in the debate of the state of Autonomy you voted against and the Socialist Group abstained, Mr Villoslada; much should not interest them. The People's Party, in its previous legislation, brought this parliament a policy package to improve democratic quality. What did you guys do? You did not support this policy package: you did not support the law of citizen participation in Parliament, you abstained from the Law of legal services, you did not support the Law of transparency, nor did you support the Law of financing political parties, and those of the three statutory bodies — the Council of Auditors, the Consultative Council and the People's Valor — did not support them either. You voted against the Law of the Board of Auditors, Mr. Villoslada, which regulates the control of corruption, the body of control of corruption, and you voted against it. In the face of a package of anti-corruption protection rules, they voted against. But, yes, now they fill in the Council of Ministers with instrumental societies to avoid paying taxes; Council of Ministers supported by the Podemos party, which comes here to teach us and talk about things... talk about it today; update, Mrs. Santos, your argument, because three ministers of that government have resigned so wonderful that you have supported them for having instrumental societies to avoid paying taxes, and some still remain inside because they were many to resign. [[Balbordo.]] Not to mention Mr. Borrell, who used privileged information for your benefit, Mr. Villoslada. [[Applause]] And here's Gürtel. Let's talk about Gürtel. [[Balbordo.]] But let's talk...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u58	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u59	I didn't interrupt you, Mrs. Santos. Look, at Gürtel, of what you talked about, it was one hundred and twenty million euros. He's forgotten other cases, such as the EREs of Andalusia, in which it was eight hundred and fifty-five million euros. And then it turns out they lost the elections in Andalusia. You don't know very well why. Well, maybe because they have two former presidents of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party accused and sitting in the bank; not even accused, accused and sitting in the bank. Twenty-two high-ranking charges and more than five people charged in Spain's biggest corruption case: the EREs of Andalusia, who spent the money of the unemployed on prostitutes and cocaine. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Mr. Díaz, don't come here to put the fan, because the fan goes to you too. And if we talk about nationalists, we also have the Pujol case: three billion euros. When they said, "Spain in the robin," the Pujols took three billion euros to Andorra, gentlemen! [[Murmurs.]] So please don't come to teach us about corruption, because you don't. [[Balbordo.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u60	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u61	And less with ministers and ministers who sit every Friday in the Euromillion...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u62	Quiet. Mr. Rivas, be quiet. Everybody, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u63	...no council of ministers so social to them, but not to the Spaniards.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u64	You too, Mr. Vega, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u65	So if they come to re-enact politics, they really re-enact it, and they don't come here to ask for it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u66	Finish it, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u67	Because the truth is, after your speech, Mr. Díaz, I don't know whether you will have the courage to ask for the vote for Mr. Pedro Sánchez and his council of ministers truffled by ministers with instrumental societies to avoid the payment of taxes. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u68	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. On the replication round, by the non-legislation panel, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u69	Thank you. I'm sorry, Mrs. Prado, but I'm good, eh! What a level! [[Laughter]] He made the triple kill jump without a net, because the People's Party has no corruption net. [[Balbordo.]] We intend to bring the debate, for consideration, a bill of something that could approve us not with much more advanced countries, but with other autonomous communities that do not need a state regulatory framework, because that is a strategy and an excuse. Mrs Prado's intervention was a bunch of excuses not to fight corruption; absolutely clear. Because the Greek report already knows who it is going to be; we are not starting from the Greek report to bring to this chamber this initiative so that the Galician Union will regulate the activity of the pressure groups at all. [[Murmurs.]] And if we bring this House, on this initiative, the need for the presidency of this House, which promised to give publicity to the agenda of Members and Members, to do so. [[Applause]] I would like to thank the representative of the BNG for supporting this initiative. It is true, Mrs. Rodil, that it is good, from time to time, to be innocent so as not to enter into guilt of corruption. And it's true also that talking about interest groups and talking about pressure groups is talking about rotational doors; of course, I didn't mention it in the first intervention, but that's of course. He spoke of the case of Ence: the case of Ence is paradigmatic; it is one of the paradigmatic cases of rotating doors and interrelationships between public ex-loads of matter, responsible for the company and responsible autonomous regulators of matter; without going into more details. I would also like to thank the intervention and support of En Marea, but it is true that the legislative text we are discussing here is precisely the proposal by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. If the People's Party wanted to fight corruption, we would have a chance, in committee, to better profile any text with any input. And, in that sense, Mrs. Prado, I think maybe the problem of the Greek Government is that it just manages accounts. And if you just manage accounts, the question we can ask is whether you're managing the accounts that interest the pressure groups, the interest groups, and nothing else, and you're not doing politics, you're just worrying about the accounts. And the issue of health care — non-primary health care — can be a clear example, because there are no profitabilitys in primary care there. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] So, in that sense, bear in mind that this obstinacy, on the part of the People's Party, of giving transparency to lobby meetings — no more of interest, no more of pressure — with parliamentarians and, above all, with the executive power, who is developing the action of government, especially when it has absolute majority, that obstinacy is seriously worrisome, because it may be giving rise to more doubt in the action of the German Government. If you didn't have that concern, you could go ahead with this bill, and we could, in committee,... [[Murmurs.]] [[Balbordo.]] I'm sorry, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u70	Quiet. Mr. Puy, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u71	We could, in the committee, better profile this legislative text. Look: They just passed the Galician Digital Administration Bill at the Board of Trustees. I suppose — because it must be — that they met with the technology sector; I suppose, but we will have no news of what meetings they had to carry out this bill. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] They're finalizing — I suppose — a draft game regulation law in Galicia. Cejuego came to this Chamber to sit with the Members who are part of the Commission 1a. Yes, yes, we have that information. [[Murmurs.]] But I'm asking... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u72	Mrs. Prado, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u73	I ask, Mrs Prado, since we are debating: why is it not possible that in this chamber, and on the part of the Government of Greece, we know, in the process of the bill of play, what interests does Cejuego have? Legitimous, but what are the interests, what are the meetings, what are the numbers presented to us by the business sector of the game for the new regulatory law in Galicia? These are questions that are there and which should be resolved by bringing forward a bill or a bill by the Government that would give light and tachygraphs. And, in that sense, there are many offices known to everyone, such as Four, Garrigues, etc., that are setting up in those rotating doors, of course, political leaders.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u74	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u75	And it could be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u76	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u77	...that, of course, political leaders...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u78	Peace, silence. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u79	...that I'm not from the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u80	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u81	...but other political forces...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u82	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u83	But that's...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u84	Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] And finish it now, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u85	...—ending, President—we can put the political forces in this chamber if we regulate that activity. And they stop using excuses of bad payers and killing the messenger, because really what they're trying to prevent at all costs and systematically regulating any control of anti-corruption practices. And it shouldn't be like that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u86	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u87	...except...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u88	Mrs. Prado, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u89	...that they are crawling so in case of corruption and not being able to pull their heads out. Nothing else and thank you. [[Applause]] Voting of the bill
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u90	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. [[Murmurs.]] We shall vote on this legislative text. Close the doors, please. We voted for this legislative text. [[Pause.]] [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] That's good! Miss Prado, please! A little quiet. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] Nothing, but we're in the vote, which is a very serious thing, and the debate is over. I say! Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, which regulates the activity of interested groups in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this bill is not taken into consideration. Institutional declaration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u91	And now I get the groups to come up with an institutional statement for the Greek dairy sector, which I'm going to read and say: "The dairy sector is a strategic sector for Galicia and one of the pillars of the economic and demographic support of many rural areas. It's up to 1.7 percent of the German GDP but it has a real impact on the economy much higher by the strong bonding with other branches of activity. The sector has undergone a profound restructuring since its incorporation into the European Union, from 100,000 farms in 1985 to less than 8,000 today. During this period, the yellow gandres made a huge effort: they increased the size, improved the management and technical level of the farms, and multiplied the volume of deliveries to the industries by more than two. Of 1.4 million tons in 1985 more than 2.7 million in 2018. Today, Galicia produces nearly 40 percent of state milk and is within the first ten producing regions of Europe. However, the sector presents problems where it is necessary to work together to ensure its future, preferably based on family-based farms, and thus maintain Galicia's territorial and environmental balance. In the wake of production, farms have to increase their territorial base, reduce costs and avoid dependence on inputs purchased in international markets, which will be subject to great volatility, as will milk prices. This requires strengthening instruments like the Land Bank and addressing an ambitious legislative reform of broad consensus that contributes to the mobilization of Galician land. Another problem in the sector is the closure of farms and the loss of productive investment in rural areas due to the lack of succession and generational relief. In this sense, measures are needed to facilitate succession and encourage incorporation into milk activity. In industry, this is characterized by its structural weakness and its orientation towards the simple derivatives of low added value and its inability to transform into Galicia all the milk that is produced, by clicking down the prices that producers receive. It is therefore necessary to develop industrial policy actions aimed at the implementation in Galicia of industrial projects that value milk and with access to international markets. Furthermore, and as a mechanism for the joint strengthening of the sector, measures are needed to achieve an equitable distribution of value throughout the chain, in particular, a modification of the milk package which eliminates existing asymmetries in the three links of the chain, and to simplify the requirements for the formation of dairy producer organisations. Finally, it is considered necessary to promote counselling, training and research as transversal axes for the future of the milk sector. For all this, the Galician Parliament, considering the dairy sector as a strategic sector of vital importance to Galician rural areas, commits itself to working on the lines prior to its strengthening, so that in the future it will continue to be the engine of economic development, added value generator, investment and employment in Galician rural areas. A sector that, in addition, maintains a useful agricultural area, acts as an effective cutters and preserves a careful agricultural landscape, symbol of the territorial entity of Galicia that benefits the whole of Galician society. Santiago de Compostela, March 26, 2019." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u92	And now we're still on the agenda. The opinion of Mrs. Environmental, Territorial and Housing Advisor, on his own request, to take account of his waste management policy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u93	To make this appearance more substantial, Mrs. Ánggeles Vázquez Mejuto has the floor of the Environmental, Territorial and Living Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u94	Good morning. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today I appeal to this chamber to give them an account of the waste management policy carried out by the Environmental, Territorial and Living Council. A policy that is based on modern, efficient and efficient waste management. There is no doubt that it is essential to achieve the objective of environmental sustainability. This government works for the future of Galicia and to achieve a sustainable future, a present and a future. And we know that the environment requires responsible, long-term and permanent policies, and that it requires a conscious and progressive transformation towards the new lifestyle, a lifestyle that must be respectful, sustainable and also circular, because, without a doubt, the circular economy and the culture of recycling will be two of the main keys that will mark our future. Two keys that go beyond the traditional rule of four errors, i.e. to reduce, reuse, recover and recycle, consolidating the multi-erre criterion, which includes many other perspectives, such as rethinking, redesigning, rebuilding, repairing or redistributing, which open up new economic possibilities for entrepreneurship and employment — what we call the "green employment" — and which represents a model based on innovation, new technologies. And Galicia can't stay behind and can't let this chance pass. So since the Environmental Council, Territory and Living, we are taking steps forward to make our community a reference to their active and responsible waste management policy. And to get it, we're working very hard on four sets of performances. The first is to update the policy framework we count on in Galicia to adapt it to new times, new demands and new challenges. The second, the empowerment of the Sogama model; a model of success, of reference, which is consolidated on a daily basis not only in Galicia but also at a national and international level. And thirdly, the proper management of both urban and industrial waste, acting on each and every one possible to reduce the impact they have on the environment. And to conclude and as a fourth point, in the sensitization and awareness of Greek society. Every contribution we can make each one of us will be a great achievement as a society. All this with the aim of walking towards a circular economy, making us the motto of "Global Thought, Act Local," and more importantly, I would also say: It acts in a personal way. We've updated the regulatory framework, and today I'm going to give it to you. As you know, today we are working on the preliminary draft of what will be Galicia's new waste and contaminated soil law. A text currently in the process of public participation and consultation. An open process in which our goal is to collect and evaluate all the approaches to achieving a consensus document between different political groups and between society in general, and that right now, half an hour ago, I have just presented to a group of 200 people, because we want it to be transparent but, above all, we want it to be participatory. We work with the expectation of sending the text to this camera before it ends the year for its processing. Our goal is to update and adapt the Waste Law of 2008, obsolete after more than a decade of vigency, where the issues relating to waste management have changed a lot — who doesn't remember a dump in each municipality or comarcal level? — and provide Galicia with a legal framework that is fully adapted to Community legislation, complete, clear and legal certainty. by taking one more step in the model change towards a circular economy. Ladies and gentlemen, we are undoubtedly before a very necessary law for our community, but it must be very participatory for many reasons, because it introduces into its articulated the main measures of the "circular economy package" approved by Europe in 2015. A measure which the European Union intends to create three million jobs by changing the production model. It is estimated that in 2030 the savings will be 600 billion euros and that in Galicia it would represent 2,000 million. This new law will therefore contribute to the promotion of green employment in Galicia. In addition, it includes tools that will speed up the obligations of producers and waste managers, which will allow more agile and more effective control by the administration, both within and outside the community. And it focuses on fighting food waste and all kinds of pollution, especially that generated by plastics; we're plasticizing the world. Two of the main challenges of the European Waste Management Agenda and which we want to continue to address. In short, the text we are processing is a bet on encouraging the hierarchy of waste management, focusing especially on the first step, which is prevention. Therefore, the law sets for the first time new targets for materials, specifically focusing on prevention and preparation for reuse. Specifically, it states that in the year 2025 we must reduce by thirty percent the volume of food waste that we generate over the year 2010; a percentage that rises to fifty percent five years later, in the year 2030. It also sets another challenge for the year 2025, which we will have to generate about fifteen percent less waste than we produced in 2010. In addition, it establishes a progressive increase in the amount of household and commercial waste intended for the preparation and reuse and recycling of paper, metal, glass, plastic or bioresidue fractions. By 2025, the target to achieve will be fifty-five percent; by 2030, sixty percent; and by 2035, sixty-five percent. The law also states that municipalities must establish separate collection of bioresidues before the end of 2023. In addition, in the year 2035, only 10 percent of waste generated can be disposed of in dumps. All with a clear objective: to prevent waste from ending up in the dumps and to promote a second chance after a useful life. In this sense, Galicia is about thirty-two percent, compared to the national average, which is about fifty-seven percent. I would like to stop now at the important news that brings with it the text, especially in waste management. This includes measures that will enable us to effectively combat food waste. In fact, the law states that restoration establishments will be obliged to deliver to customers the leftovers of foods that do not consume, and to do so preferably in biodegradable and reusable containers. With this measure, our goal is to protect consumer rights and to establish by law a reality that in practice in many establishments in Galicia is already being carried out, and they offer their commensaries the possibility of taking into their home the unused surplus, which, if they don't carry it out, ends up in waste. In order to push the opinion of the sector, we transferred the project through the specific consultation procedure to the main sectoral groups concerned, and among them — as it could not be otherwise — to the inn. It should also be noted that this issue is not a recent nor new issue for the Galician Union, since in 2018 a pilot project, called the Horeca Project, was developed in which this initiative was carried out in the four provinces to implement the culture of food waste reduction. The experience of the pilot project was a bit gratifying, both for consumers and consumers and also for hosts. In fact, under this initiative, a total of 51,905 packages were delivered in Galicia, of which 30,584 were bags and 21,321 were refrigerators. From the very first point of view, we have participated in the sector of our intention to combat effectively and from the very beginning the problem of food waste, which is one of the main challenges of the European agenda. We want to go into the hands of the hospitality and restoration entrepreneurs of Galicia on this path, since its involvement is essential. But not only their hand, but the hand of each one of us as regards food waste. The draft waste law — as I have already said — is not a closed text, and all approaches will be received and taken into account in the final drafting of the text. Our intention is to achieve a document that seeks to be durable over time and that allows us to update and adapt Galicia's current legal framework to European and state regulations on this matter. To complete this measure we promote a social pact between all the actors involved, which will be implemented in a code of good practice on the treatment of these food surpluses. In addition, for the first time, there is a specific legal regime for domestic and community composting programmes. With the text we also want to fight against the pollution generated by plastics. First of all, by adapting to existing regulations on plastic bags. They know we took a first step, but it's not just about paying the bag, but we have to go further, and in the year 2021, all plastic bags that are not compostable will be banned. But we will also go beyond that, since since the entry into force of the law will be prohibited in Galicia the sale of single-use dishes, i.e., you can't market dishes, glasses, cups, blankets and disposable food and plastic trays, with the exception of those made up of 50 percent of biodegradable material. The text focuses not only on waste management but also on measures to combat soil pollution. As far as soils are concerned, we update potentially dangerous activities, regulate the instruments of assessment and soil quality, regulate the consequences of emergency situations and make new sanctions for contaminated soils ranging from EUR 900 in the case of mild sanctions to EUR 1.7 million in the case of severe sanctions. The achievements achieved so far in waste management would be impossible not to be because in Galicia we have a relative in this matter. I'm talking about Sogama, who is voluntarily affiliated to ninety-four percent of the Greek municipalities, which represents a model of public enterprise, solvent, efficient and sustainable, and also represents a model of company in continuous process of analysis and improvement. Sogama has become a foundation not only for waste management and recycling in Galicia, but also for the environment, awareness, citizen education and the fight against climate change. A model recognised by the European Union and which, in addition, is the cheapest of the three Greek plants and one of the cheapest in Spain. The year 2018 was historic for Sogama. It has been marked by a very positive industrial balance, mainly in two issues: by increasing by 4.06 percent the amount of waste treated in the environmental complex of Cerceda and by decreasing the green by 2.54%, in a trend that continues downwards that boasts very much of the average rate of green in Spain, which is stagnated by about fifty-seven percent. All of this adds a greater recovery of the materials contained in the two fractions that handle Sogama: the black bag and the yellow bag. In the case of the black bag, steel and aluminium recycling increased by 12.04 per cent, recovering in 2018 a total of 33,194 tons of glass. In relation to the yellow bag, its reception in the Cerceda packaging classification plant rose by 11.12 percent, from 22,479 tons in 2017 to 24,980 last year. These results were possible thanks to an improvement in business management, which will be enhanced by the expansion of the complex, in which we are investing twenty-nine million euros. A performance in which we're moving at a good pace. In fact, the first phase, at a cost of 19 million, ended in November 2018, with the entry into operation of the new material recovery plant contained in the conventional trash. This is a 4.0 technology-based plant that allows us to separate up to eleven types of waste, which we then transfer to the processing industry for its conversion into new products. In January, the second phase of enlargement began, which will cost 10 million euros and will allow the old recycling, processing and fuel processing plant to be completely remodelled. This work will be a reality in the middle of this year and will allow us to renew all the machinery and optimize all the processes. In addition, the end of enlargement will bring great benefits, such as an operational improvement by treating optimally all waste from the 200-90s and five municipalities attached to Sogama, which assume the waste of 2.2 million Welsh and Welsh, allowing if necessary the management of all urban wastes generated in Galicia; a greater recycling, multiplying by four current figures, and less green, forecasting to reach 2020 what is called "zero technical green", that is, would only go to the dump ten percent, which is what can no longer be recycled. We have moved forward for several years with regard to the European Union, since that is what we are going to achieve in 2020, in view of the intention and objective of Europe, which is to have a zero green in 2035. This will enable us not only to maintain leadership at Galicia level, but also in Spain, in the field of sustainable waste management, and will transform Sogama into the infrastructure of its most modern and efficient features in Europe. The particularly positive data recorded in 2018 in Sogama's environmental complex allows for measures, such as lowering the cannon to the municipalities by 10 percent from January of this year. An action which is foreseen in the 2019 budgets, and in which only two requirements are requested to the municipalities: one, the reduction in the amount of waste produced and the increase in recycling figures, and on the other hand, to transfer this discount from the receipt paid to the neighbours and neighbours of each municipality, and which will have to be justified before February 2020. This measure was joined by seventy-seven percent of the municipalities that joined Sogama, that is, a total of two hundred twenty-nine municipalities, which will allow a savings of about 4.7 million euros, which will benefit more than 1.8 million Greeks and Greeks. To carry out this initiative, Sogama collaborates hand in hand with the councils and has committed to helping them in the work of raising citizens' awareness and awareness of the three major challenges facing the circular economy, which is to reduce waste, reuse and recycling. The third axis of our waste policy is the measures we are implementing for the proper management of urban waste and those that generate the industries that operate in our territory. For household waste we have a complete roadmap, which is the Galicia Urban Waste Management Plan 2010-2022, under which this year 2019 we will manage an budget of 5.6 million euros to put in place actions to improve the management of household waste, that is, the waste we generate in our homes. The measures planned for this year highlight the order of aid for municipalities for the setting up of mobile clean points and for initiatives for the implementation of separate organic fraction collection of bioresidues. This aid line is equipped with 1.3 million euros and it was convened in December. Create a Welsh re-use preparation network, which implies the impulse of a network of municipal, commercial or social institutions for repairing damaged equipment. We will also carry out targeted bioresidue collection actions between large producers and municipalities, especially in tourist areas. And measures to promote and support the use of compost, involving administrations and citizenship in general. In addition, we will launch an educational campaign on waste prevention, recycling and composting, making special ends meet food waste, responsible consumption and good eating habits. And a awareness campaign aimed at reducing the consumption of single-use bags. All in order to achieve the target of 50 percent of the recycling of urban waste by 2020 that we brand Europe. In addition, we will continue with the implementation initiative, which was launched last year, for the distribution of four thousand six hundred containers between local authorities for the collection of biowaste, to which we are allocating EUR 556,000 and which aims to promote the implementation of the fifth container. In the wake of organic waste, Sogama has been leading an ambitious domestic composting program in recent years, which today is joining two hundred ninety-nine entities, between municipalities, educational centres and social groups, among which nearly ten thousand composers have already been distributed. In addition, EUR 2.5 million was invested in the construction of a composting plant in the Areosa dump, which will serve mainly the municipalities located on a 40-mile radius. From the German Government, we also know that the proper management of industrial waste, the ones generated by companies working in Galicia, is crucial and important. At present, we found ourselves in the equator of the application of the Galicia Industrial Waste Plan 2016-2022 — called Priga — and in the Galicia Industrial Waste Management Road, which closes its planning package of what the Junta Waste Plan is coming to be. In 2019 we will mobilise an investment of about EUR 8800,000 for the execution of various actions and measures included in the document, with the aim of optimizing the management of this type of waste, making special fincapé in the prevention of the generation of these wastes, which add up to 2.4 tons in Galicia, in the management of construction waste and in the management of used wastes. Finally, and no less important, the fourth axis of our waste management policy is the impulse to the awareness and awareness of the Greeks and the Greeks, because we know that we are aware that raising the awareness of the Greeks about recycling is something fundamental is essential in order to achieve an environmentally sustainable and responsible society, and because, in addition, we save energy, we reduce CO2 emissions, and we avoid the extraction of raw materials. Ladies and gentlemen, we have made a great deal of progress in society's environmental awareness, especially as regards waste treatment, because there is not so much waste we had anywhere — in any municipality we had a dump, in any comarcal head we had a dump — and this is unthinkable today. We have taken important steps in recent years, but we must continue to make strong progress in this matter. The effort has enabled us to improve the recycling data that is recorded every year in Galicia. The recycling of certain urban wastes, such as plastic or glass, is very internalized, and this is in the figures that we have seen year by year. For example, the Greek community reached in 2018 spectacular data on the recycling of light packaging, which was increased by 9.8% compared to 2017, as well as paper and paperboard, since each Greek recycled in the blue container a 11.4 percent more than in the previous year, which implies that each Greek has recycled an average of five hundred dozen cartons or cartons of paper. Also in the case of glass, since in 2018 the gales and gales recycled a total of 48,308 tons of glass packaging waste through the green container, which means an eleven percent more than in 2017 and the largest inter-annual increase recorded in the last ten years, being the second autonomous community that most increased recycling at the national level. And what it means is that each Welshman recycled an average of nearly 18 kilograms of glass, in particular 17.9, which means an average of sixty-eight containers of recycled glass per inhabitant. However — as I have already said — despite the good results recorded in the last year, we have to keep moving forward and there is work to be done. That's why we keep working, because we know that education and environmental information are fundamental to the work we've been doing since this board. Our main goal is to develop the potential of environmental communication as a fundamental tool in the environmental management of our waste. In this way, we will continue in 2019 with environmental education and awareness campaigns, since we consider training to be the best prevention. A series of actions that we have allocated EUR 2.6 million and which we participate in and collaborate with other entities, in the case of Ecoembes, Ecovidrio or Raee’s. Among the activities to be carried out are, for example, awareness-raising initiatives on the proper management of waste from electrical and electronic devices, on batteries and electronic accumulators, continuing with examples started in the current school course, such as the Pilabot contest, which was settled with forty-four tons of batteries, accumulators and batteries used collected in one hundred and fifty educational centres. We will also continue the Way of Recycling campaign in shelters of the Jacobean Route; an initiative that today already has 200 and sixteen establishments attached to the French, Northern and Portuguese Road. This year is planned to extend it to the English Way. In addition, we launched this March, in collaboration with Ecoembes, the "Think on the lungs" campaign, which aims to remind you of the importance of recycling to improve air quality. We will also continue with the initiative "Separate in a manner" to encourage the selective collection of packaging in festive events. In the last two years this initiative has been present in six hundred thirty-five fairs, feirons and gastronomic events. Or the "Free" project, for awareness of the collection of garbage in coastal and coastal spaces. I am convinced that these awareness-raising actions will continue to bear fruit, as they have done so far, according to the data that I come to make them public today — they are the data of the year 2018 — and that over the next few months we will continue to promote new future projects aimed at implementing a model of circular economy in Galicia. Finally, I would like to present to Parliament today the balance of the Greek Government's wager for a modern and effective waste management, committed to the environment and to sustainability. What it means not only to generate less waste, but also to encourage recycling and recovery of materials, and to encourage reduced use of raw materials. I mean, to abandon the outdated model of linear economy to move it into the circular economy. That's the way we're going from the Galician Union and what we're going to keep working and moving on, because we know what to make our society sustainable is to make a better world and therefore a better Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u95	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u96	Thank you, President. Good morning. Counsellor, you did here an appearance that seems more like an intervention on cosmetics, on decorating and windowmaking policy than on real waste management policy. The truth is that you make a lot of effort to use the language to build, to disguise reality, and it adds up to fashion—you spoke of a lifestyle in your intervention, right?—they come up with green, ecological, sustainable, multi-erre, circular economy; they also talk about the blue economy. But really, they do everything the opposite; you do everything the opposite of what they say through this cosmetic speech, which seems so good. You took a little bit of green -- before the previous advisor, who doesn't walk around here anymore through the hemisphere, said they had a program called "Green," I don't know where he stayed or what it was, because she spoke with a lot of enthusiasm about Greening -- a little bit of green, but then you're doing a lot of gray, a lot of brown, green, for example, to the Furelos River -- you know it, right, in your county -- and a lot of black. What you've been doing here and what you're doing is usually a real fraud -- a fraud because you, who say defending the politics of the circular economy, actually carry out a predatory policy, a devastating, hyper-consumer, polluting and waste-generating policy. This is the policy, on the other hand, that responds to the predatory and devastating logic of capitalism, which you apply to the finger. And, of course, the problem is not just the regulation, the problem is the general economic model of what you are firm followers, who carry out their specific policies. We can talk about mining policy, macro-mining policy; we can talk about forestry policy, industrial policy, mobility policy too, or waste policy. And today, as it does not give us time to talk about everything, we will focus on three aspects that we think are central to: on the one hand, urban solid waste; on the other hand, packaging and the general problem of plastic and, thirdly, industrial waste. These are three critical elements that you don't solve with your policies, and neither does this draft law just presented to us here, because you're going in the opposite direction. And that they want us to present Sogama as a model at this point? Sogama which means the Gaga Society of Environment, which should be Sogain, the Galician society of incineration, because that's basically what Sogama is meant to burn the garbage. Not only to burn it, it's much worse: to transport it through the country, to dry it and to burn it, a perfect example of circular economy, which you practice with Naturgy. [[Applause]] Because Fenosa Union, Natural Gas, now Naturgy, what they do is dry organic matter so they can burn it, and then they also take advantage of energy production because they're their partners. So the more you burn, the more you win, the better the business works. That's Sogama's philosophy, which, on the other hand, has absolutely ridiculous levels of recycling recovery. In the last balance sheet of 2015 they were talking about 3.3 percent, and with the expansion that came to sell us here, they're talking about four times that they're going to expand, that is, they're going to get to fifteen percent as a recycling target. What are you talking about? And you're talking about zero technical greenery. That's another bluff, another invention, because Sogama has produced six million tons of toxic waste, which are thrown around, stored and piled up in large garbage mountains they have in Cerceda. That's the reality of Sogama: forty-two thousand tons a year of inert waste, ash and garbage that produces that system that you sell as a marvel. And it doesn't respond to the hierarchy that marks the European directive, and you can't even technically qualify as energy valuation, it isn't, it doesn't meet the requirements for that. And look, you're in breach of all the rules that have been laid down, and because of the European, state and its own German legislation. You do not comply with Article 24 of the Waste and Contaminated Soil Act, which says that autonomic plans should include measures to encourage the collection separate from biowaste and its subsequent treatment. And this isn't about sharing a few containers around for composting, I don't know if you told us ten thousand. But if any municipality of the Pontevedra Revitalized Plan that is in the phase, it already distributes almost as many as these. What's he coming to tell us? Are you going to compare the whole country with the Snows, or with Vilaboa, or with Mondariz-Balenario, who share more composers than you all over the country? It's pure propaganda, making it happen. Just like Areosa's plant. What are you going to tell us here, that you're going to solve the composting problem with a plant that's been open for a year, finished, and you still don't know who's going to pour in there? They couldn't convince any council to take the trash there because they still don't know what it's gonna be like, how they're gonna do, how they're gonna pick up. [[Applause]] What are you talking about here? Look: Pemar, which was approved in 2015, said already—2015, four years ago—that they should review the autonomic plans and should specify how bioresidue management is focused on those plans as set out in Pemar. What have they done in this regard? Because the Deputy of Pontevedra is making a plan — at least, it is making a plan — which is called Revitaliza, which is producing results and to which many municipalities are adding themselves. By the way, councils of the People's Party too — there are more than ten councils of the People's Party added to the Revitalization Plan — is something good for you, right? Well, you guys, nothing. It said that before 2020 — that is, in 2019, this year in which we are — the amount of household and commercial waste intended for the preparation of the use and recycling —paper, glass, metals, plastics, biowaste... — must reach at least 50%. You told us that in 2018 there was a spectacular result, that I had gone up I don't know how much, but it's not approaching 50 percent. So, when are you going to meet this goal? They're not fulfilling what Pemar marks, what marks state law, what marks Europe. And here you put in the draft waste law that 50 percent of biowaste, paper and glass by 2020. They don't accomplish these goals by far. Yes, he'll consult, but he won't. And look: the amendment to Article 24 of the waste law that is being processed, do you know what it says? That by 2020 the separate collection of bioresidues will be mandatory at the end of 2020. And you put it in 2023. But what are we talking about? Well, this is a draft, fortunately you'll have to change it, but state legislation is much more demanding than what you put here. And they don't do their own waste management plan. Do you know what the waste plan foresees in the review in 2016, in theory, to adapt to Pemar, with respect to composting plants? That two hundred and forty thousand tons of organic matter and bioresidues had to be composed of, and that is not done either by assumption or even by its plan. What are we talking about? And you end up in a flight forward with that five hundred million-euro Sogama macro-contract in order to be able to handle all the garbage produced in Galicia -- that's crazy! -- when in your own plan it says you have to make up that amount of two hundred and five thousand tons. Like, if there's no composting plants? And you're trying to boycott community composting, for example, where it's being established. Look — I'm running out of time — in plastics, packaging and packaging, we're in the glue truck, here there's never been any strategy about it. You're putting in that draft of the law is to apply what is already in the Royal State Decree, which sets out obligations for January 1, 2020, when this law is not going to be in force that they want to pass. And here with regard to packaging and packaging, the key is also why they bet. Because you don't say anything in this bill. You bet on the Ecoembes system, that this is a great lobby, a great monopoly. Do you know who's in Ecoembes as partners? Sixty percent are large food companies: Coca-Cola, Pepsi, Danone and Bimbo, and the remaining 40% packaging manufacturers like Tetra Pak, and also distributors: Carrefour, Alcampo, El Corte Inglés, Mercadona. Do you know what this is called? The fox looking after the chickens! That's what's called Ecoembes, the more you produce, the more you charge, and everything goes to the boat. [[Applause]] And in view of this, there is an advanced European system, which is the system of deposit, return and return, which is why we have to bet, so the advanced European countries are betting, not because of this mess, which is a business for these companies. As I have little time left, then I'm going to talk about industrial waste, and about a very specific matter, because this law apart from what it talks about contaminated soils, and it can put in there all the technosols that have been sprawling around with contamination across the country from the country's canisters, this law is a new open door for the ballast to use the canisters as dumps. They had a demonstration last Sunday of 5,000 people in Casalonga. What do you tell them about this law? So what they're told is that they're going to authorize the canisters to turn into spills that are indiscriminate for the treatment of garbage. That's what they do with this project. For example, that the company itself promotes this dump in Casalonga speaks of a 10 million-ton macro-green, where there are planned money and a 50 million-euro business, when the quarry cost him less than a million-euro. That's also what this law is for. Counsellor, there's no sustainable Welsh strategy for waste, don't come here to tell us stories, promote cosmetic measures and for the gallery, do not comply with all the rules and regulations, and come here to sell us smoke. By the way, toxic smoke, contaminated smoke, burned from Sogama, and we won't buy them smoke. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u97	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u98	Thank you, President. Good morning. Good morning, Counselor. You know that in recent times there are political formations that tell us a lot about the need to re-engineer politics. We agree with that need. But this regeneration we understand that it either comes as a pure makeup, that cosmetic effect of what Mr Bará was talking about, or it goes back to another century, not the previous century, but the previous century, in the 19th century, with suits and uniforms that smell naphthaline. And with all due respect, Counselor, your intervention today, to literally account for your waste management policy, we too smell of that kind of regeneration, makeup, pure pose and naphthaline, nothing more. You came to speak here exactly and with the same words your predecessor spoke in the Environmental Counsellor, he used the same language and told the same stories she had just told a year ago. And I said make-up because that's what you've told us today, too, was announced last week by the Sea Councilman in Pontevedra, saying that they were going to do three things specifically with regard to waste. You went there for a walk, and you spoke -- not today very little, just to mention it -- that day of the Greek Strategy of circular economy. You talked today about what has to happen from the linear economy to the circular economy, but you didn't tell us for a while, because that strategy has been put in a drawer for quite a while. Again, Mrs. Beatriz Mato came here two years ago to talk about the Greek strategy of the circular economy. On that day, the councillor himself said that Galicia was ready and was going to coordinate a working group in Spain on the circular economy and European funds, with the Catalan and Valencian governments — she said at that time. We don't know how that coordination is going, because you came here today regretably talking about a circle, closing a circle that was born empty and is still empty. It's not circular economy, it's not even linear economy, it's empty circle economy. You said absolutely nothing today about the Greek Strategy against Climate Change and the Energy of the 2050, as if it had nothing to do with waste, you didn't even mention it. You didn't talk about climate change. And that's to have a very short-sighted view of what's going on in the world, counselor -- let me tell you -- especially because your predecessor was talking about this strategy of fighting climate change. And, in fact, a year ago he also appeared to the president of the Union in the Coruña to talk about the impact of pollution and greenhouse gases on the climate. That's also waste. There is an idyllic phrase by the President of the Union that day, who said, "Today we gather all the peoples of the world who want to keep changing to keep moving forward. The Earth calls us and we have to answer." He said in the Coruña. With this photograph, which is quite contradictory with the explosion, which is the young people who manifest themselves throughout Europe against climate change and against photographs like this, which are expired and which, as I told them, smell absolutely naphthaline, you see that the Earth calls us at a different rate to each of us. [[Mrs. Vilan Lorenzo shows the House two photographs.]] You came here today to speak of a preliminary draft law, Counselor. It's just that we're going to debate the law when they bring it in, and the sooner they get to them, the sooner we thank them, it's in the public exhibition phase. But that preliminary draft has already announced it here too Mrs. Beatriz Mato in May of last year, and said that it would soon be presented in this chamber, "before the end of 2018 we will have a new Waste and Contaminated Land Act in Galicia." We're in 2019 and we haven't even finished the project yet. You come here to talk about it. Pure makeup, which is already quite prayer, Counselor. He said you're taking steps forward. Well, it's been over a year. And maybe they had to take a lot of momentum, and that's why they had to step back a few steps, like Ricky Martin's song: "A pass forward and a pass back," and it was that of "paquí, palla", because you're going back forward. Because we've been with that project for over a year and we still have absolutely nothing. And he said "naphthaline," because, in fact, you said that finally the rules of the board are obsolete. It's true. We've been telling them for years that it's gone away, that it was necessary to change it, and we've never been voted in favour of any initiative that we're asking for. We're losing the chance that these young people in that photograph, Greta and Anuna in Europe, are telling us that it's necessary to sign up, that we can't go at the pace, and much less at the pace of the Government of Galicia. Your CEO of Environmental Quality and Climate Change has expressly recognized this failure. He said that in managing the organic fraction of municipal waste, that's forty-two percent of the total household waste in Galicia. She said it herself. And he said in a summons to a waste table that actions are essential to encourage the collection separate from bioresidues, and that's what the state government is saying. You guys up to this moment don't know what they were thinking. Europe has been marking it for years. And precisely because they're not dealing with how to treat them, because they're making the entire management process difficult. You now remember Saint Martha when she thrones, Counselor. The European Waste Directive says — and you said — that at least 50 percent of waste is to be recycled by 2020. But what happens to Sogama, which you put us as the most modern model of global waste management — it said not only Galicia or state, but even European —, according to this 2018 report, only five percent is recycled or recovered, nothing more; nothing more than that, nothing more. It's his own report. Sogama did not lower the cannon, there was no reduction or any measure, what made the cannon rise almost thirty-three percent in 2013, and then drop it about ten percent and another ten percent. By the way, with a report by Price Waterhouse Coopers — let us say — quite illusory and that gave rise to very large real benefits for Sogama. And then right now they could allow that climb of almost thirty-three percent that you did on your day to get eliminated in an absolute way, and not that you're going to cut those downs and sell them as if you were actually downing something that hadn't gone up before in 2013. You've just discovered, well, not because it's true that this mistake and the multi-ergeousness also came here to tell us the last time you talked about waste, but you figure out the community hierarchy eleven years after your own regulation, which is the year 2008. Naphthaline, advisor, napphthaline. He's talking about contaminated soils, but he didn't say anything about asbestos circulating through Galicia without any control, because it's not eliminated properly. And they know. He's talking about plastics, he's talking about plastic bags, which are already regulated, or the sale of dishes and blankets. He didn't say anything about agricultural plastics, he didn't say anything about the recovery of nets in the sea, in the ports. I don't know if you know, Counselor — I suppose so — that plastic marine waste is already causing problems in our creeks, precisely because they are not managed. You talked about the packaging that's going to go to the food that's leftover, the waste, that puts that preliminary draft that'll be "preferably" -- which means they can't be -- just preferably biodegradable. And what about the indefinition of that future law for clean points, which they don't even control, that the recovery of waste is certified? Counselor, it's rather sad that you come here to talk about awareness, involvement, action of society, even on your business day, when you haven't campaigned for awareness. Those 10,000 composers are true that they were divided into two hundred ninety-nine collectives, municipalities, educational centers, social groups, which are thousands, thousands and thousands; there are only two hundred ninety-nine. There's a compost plant in Areosa that we're still expecting to work, for about 30,000 tons of compost, because it won't allow any more. You know your own plan says there's got to be eleven plants in Galicia, and you haven't even done the first since Sogama works, because it's not working. And what are you going to do with that compost?, are you going to sell?, are you going to give?, are you going to have the category enough to be sold? And you talked about recycling the glass. Counsellor, where is it generated?, in which treatment plants are generated all those jobs related to the recycling of the glass you spoke about?, in Galicia or Portugal? Why do we have treatment plants here? Eco-glass, when you pick up the recycled glass, what do you do with it? Put it in a truck and take it to Portugal to Portuguese treatment plants? Or do they deal in Galicia and do jobs in Galicia? How does it move?, in a truck, which does not produce any kind of waste to the environment? Why do you object to our request for a study of the deposit system, return and return of glass in Galicia? What's the reason for you to oppose? Counselor, we believe that we must act now, quit so much makeup, so much pose. And we need to stop the gaseous waste by already curbing the loss of biodiversity due to air pollution; urban waste by improving the management of water and natural resources—you haven't talked about it either—and plastic waste. And you have to adapt to climate change, even mitigate it — you haven't said anything — And industrial waste, using resources efficiently. Come here and talk...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u99	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u100	I'm going to finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u101	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u102	I'm done. To talk about what you talked about is you go back to that empty circle of the beginning, or just use this appearance as an excuse to be able to talk about the environment, because you had made your request and it was too late...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u103	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u104	...six months to come here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u105	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u106	...to talk about the environment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u108	No interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u109	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u110	Good morning. The Counsellor, in her series of advertisements, assumed modern and efficient management. Well, if the fake news are modern, then his speech was very modern because he was full of fake news, of advertising and propaganda, of very well-known manipulation techniques, as it is to say that Sogama is a model to follow. So I'm a model of elegance and of well-cut hair. And I'm going to start by saying that I'm hoping that you'll ever stop doing your advertising and propaganda monologues and have a debate contrasting data. You assumed from the spectacular data of 2018, and gave a: that had risen to 4.6 percent of the waste treated. Is that true, that they went up to 4.6 percent of the waste treated in 2018? That's true, isn't it? He said it. Well, is that a good data? I will read Article 4 of European Directive 98/2008 on the waste hierarchy: "The following waste hierarchy will serve as a priority in legislation and policy on waste prevention and management. First, prevention." If prevention is the first step in the waste hierarchy, Counsellor, which rises four percent of the waste that reaches Sogama, is it good news or is it a failure of prevention policies? I think it's a failure. You can then check that Sogama has the ability to burn much more even, but it's a failure because the waste is not being reduced. You should come here when you speak in an audience to account for your waste policies. We're in 2019, right? Well, there were targets for 2020, there was an industrial waste management plan that was originally 2010-2020, right? There are targets to be met by 2020. How are we going to meet those goals, Counselor? Why didn't you give the organic matter management data? Why when he talks about paper and paperboard, or when he talks about plastics, he talks about spectacular increase from 2017 to 2018, without telling us what the current percentage of what is recycled in the Sogama system? Why don't you tell us how far we are about to meet the 2020 targets? Why don't you tell us if we're going to meet the 50 percent recycling targets of organic matter, when in the last data we had on the 2015 Activity Memory they spoke of 3.32 percent recycling, when there's no separate collection of bioresidues? Of course, because the spectacular increase from year to year also what you can tell us is that we start from a very low situation, and then the 10 percent increase from the nineteen percent that was recycled from paper and cardboard in 2015 gives us to go up to twenty-one percent. And it's far away from the targets to be met by 2020 marked by the European Union, Madam Counsellor. In glass, there's good recycling data, but in paper and paper not; in organic matter, bad, and in plastics, bad. Counsellor, that's what I think you missed in your presence. You talked about circular economy. Sogama is all the opposite of the circular economy, it's all the opposite. See — I repeat — waste hierarchy: first, prevention, preparation for reuse, recycling, other type of valuation and energy recovery and finally elimination. You guys don't think it's wrong. As soon as economic activity is reactivated, waste will again grow, preparing for misuse. The collection separate from the bio-residues shines by their absence—you yourself recognized it. Therefore, it is impossible to make composite if not collected separately. Bad recycling, there's bad recycling data. And then you call it valorization to incinerate sixty-one percent of the waste that goes into Sogama, when the efficiency data that marks the European Union to consider valorization is 0.6: the interrelationship of energy that we have to supply to the system to make the process and energy that produces that system. And he didn't give the data — maybe from them — of 2018, but in previous years they were far from that energy efficiency to consider valorization. So what we have is that, finally, there's a elimination along the way of incineration and there's a disposal per dump, which is what you hide. You say, we'll get to the zero technical greenery in the dump, which is ten percent of the landfill, which will be just what can't be recycled. It's a lie! We're too far from the dump all that cannot be recycled; in such a case, it will increase what is incinerated. And it's that behind this, of course, there's no technical problems, there's a model in which the business is very high, the business of what was formerly Natural Gas, Fenosa and that today is Naturgy, owner of forty-nine percent of Sogama's public society shares and that does a juicy business with the incineration of waste. So, what incentives does Sogama or Naturgy have to reduce the waste entering for incineration? None, Counselor. None, because behind Sogama's model is the business. It's not a technical matter, it's a question that is based on benefiting from the nature business. We've said it a lot. The Board of Auditors in 2004 — when it made the last control report on Sogama — has already warned of the conflict of interest in Sogama, where it was repeatedly granted gas and electricity supply contracts, both at high and low voltage, to Naturgy, owner of forty-nine percent of the shares. And we follow the same thing: doing business with that. Then you also talked about the ten percent discount. Look: you went up thirty-four percent in 2014 with the excuse, with the lie of electrical regulatory change, when it was seen that in 2015 it was the best historic year of electricity sales in Sogama. The reason was different; the reason was the participative loans with the Board and with Natural Gas that were committed and that had to be returned, the Project Finance, and all the financial debt it had to deal with. And the judgment pending the reclassification of the thermoelectric plant by a decision of Mr. Feijóo, which had to be paid many millions of euros. All of this was to be paid in the next four years, and then they had to go up to the Greeks and to the Greeks thirty-four percent, when there were other measures that wouldn't involve going up to the Greeks and the Greeks thirty-four percent in the cannon in the trash. But it meant harming Fenosa Natural Gas and Galician Union itself. So it was, for example, to convert into social capital what were the participatory loans of the Galician Union and Fenosa Natural Gas, but you didn't want them. And now I've been arrested after a ten percent fall -- I think in 2015 -- another ten percent drop. And why don't they come down twenty percent? Because you know that Sogama's latest published accounts say that it had some benefits before taxes of sixteen million euros, which comes to be twenty-nine percent of what sells in electricity this company; which comes to be about twenty-seven percent — I believe — of what is collected by cannon from the Sogama garbage. You guys still have a lot of margins to cut them off in the receipt to the Greeks and to the Greeks, why don't they? Why ten percent and not twenty percent, Counselor? Because, of course, publicity and propaganda have to be done, but they don't have to take the business away from certain people either. Then you're talking about that one of the four axes on which the action of the Galician Union is based is the new policy framework. And when do you meet a policy framework, Counselor? By the time you meet the laws that you yourself approve, the plans that you yourself approve? Because you in Galicia's Urban Waste Management Plan said there were eleven composting plants to decentralise the treatment of organic matter; which we agree, of course, that it is one of Sogama's problems, centralization. And you of those plants didn't make one. Well, yes, this one here from Cerceda, who, of course, initially said it was for big consumers and now it says it is for the municipalities around. In this case, you will have a maximum capacity to treat fifteen thousand tonnes of the estimated 200 and 7 thousand tons in this Galician Urban Waste Management Plan, done by yourself and updated by you in 2016. Where are the plants and where is the capacity of the two hundred and forty-seven thousand tonnes necessary to meet the objectives of the European Union to reach 2020? Counsellor, where are they? Fifteen thousand tons is the whole contribution Sogama is going to make? The Galicia Waste Management Plan says: "The development of the plants included in this planning must progress progressively and gradually, and in parallel to the promotion of bioresidue-separated collection of bioresidues for its biological treatment", as Pemar collects in 2016. How did you advance, Counselor, gradually and planned the construction of these plants and the separate collection? Can you give us the data? I think I'm out of time, and we'll follow up on the next intervention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u111	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u112	Good morning, gentlemen. I, Counselor, would like to congratulate you on your presence, which was also on your own request. I would also like to congratulate the future mayor of the Coruña, for making Galicia a reference to waste management policies. Among other communities they waste their time on matters that at nothing benefit anyone and much less than citizens, or by wasting valuable efforts because of the instability of most governments, here in Galicia the citizens wanted stability and also wanted a government centered on citizens. That's why there's a serious, stable government that's working. This is noted and seen especially in waste management. You have highlighted four axes of action in your appearance: the updating of the normative framework; the empowerment of the successful model of Sogama — and if Sogama is a successful model and then, with data and not with opinions, I will say because we understand that Sogama is a successful model -- and also the proper management of wastes, both urban and industrial, and perhaps one of the most important parts, which is the awareness and awareness of Greek society. That awareness-raising and awareness-raising that is so funny to the opposition, because it's true that these awareness-raising and awareness-raising campaigns sometimes have a striking name, and it seems these opposition-votes have that name and they don't stick to that powerful effort that is being made to raise awareness and raise awareness of our society. A sample of the work you're doing is the new waste law and contaminated soils. And it's true that last year we announced the preparation of that preliminary draft, last year we carried out this preliminary draft, and this year we introduced the preliminary draft to the Board of Directors, and the same preliminary draft is now on public display. Today ends the deadline. I don't know if you made any allegations; you could have done it, it wouldn't be wrong, and so the whole society would know that's what you think. But that's the normal procedure of a law: first, it's announced its elaboration, it's drawn up, then it's approved by the Council and then it's submitted to allegations and public exposure. Maybe you have another process to make the laws. It's true, the decree process is to arrive on a Friday, to pass a decree that is neither debated nor analysed nor claimed by anyone at all, but you're happy because for you that is the most appropriate democratic procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, today it ends this process of participation and then another process enters which must respond to all the approaches, so that it is forwarded to this chamber for its processing and debate. Of course this law is necessary, because the previous was 2008. What happens is that you, Mrs. Vilán, since the first year we ruled, were asking us to make another new law. Of course, ten years later, we consider there's enough need to carry out that law; not a year later, not two years later, not three years later. And this is done in addition because European legislation and the latest changes in urban waste management thus require it. This new law will also provide legal security, it will leave our legal framework completely adapted to Community legislation. I didn't hear him talk about it at all, maybe because he didn't read it for the kid or intense what that project was. You stayed with the advisors' announcements in your appearances, but you got very little into what is the content of that regulation or the benefits it will provide to society. It will also allow us to move forward towards a model of circular economy, because it incorporates the principles and measures adopted by Europe in 2015. And the new text will also focus on encouraging hierarchy in waste management, especially in prevention and preparedness for reuse. It has to be said that this law also sets specific targets, as well as targets for the first time in materials. And up to 2025 he has a goal of reducing food waste by thirty percent, 50 percent by 2030. Up to 2025 you want to reduce by fifteen percent or total waste. The separate collection of bioresidues is also established before the end of 2023. That's why, Mrs. Vilán, I told you that you didn't read the law very well because you set up the separate collection of bioresidues before the end of 2023. It's true that the obligation has to be the Town Councils, and it's true that the Town Councils will have to do something. And we'll talk after the difference in the municipalities where the People's Party is and where the Socialist Party is, an example of irresponsibility and boycott to the rest of the administrations. It also states that in 2035 you can only go to the dump about ten percent. In Galicia we are prepared for this to be accomplished, not in other communities, not in the rest of the state. And also another series of bans such as the sale of disposable plastic dishes, glasses and covers. Finally, a good preliminary draft, necessary and ambitious. You, if you want, sum up; in the parliamentary process, come closer. You know that when they approach this group, listen to them, accept those they consider appropriate, and you will reject those we consider to be more responsive to fully personal criteria or personal opinions than to those that respond to a basis. But there will be this effort on the part of this group to accept it as well, to listen to their proposals, to see if they are also able to make proposals interesting and enrich the text. In relation, ladies and gentlemen, with Sogama, you said that you smelled naphthaline here some speech; here the only thing that smells naphthaline are your opinions. It doesn't matter what scientific evidence you have to keep with your mantras, because they're moved there, because they don't want to move; it must be comfortable for you, it must be that your parish buys their speech and that's where they don't want to move. But his speech on Sogama comes into the realm of pseudosciences. You make a speech based on myths, opinions and prejudices. They have the same scientific evidence, they have the same contrasting data and they have the same reality. His speech to the environment is the same as the speech of anti-activacins to public health, it's the same analogy. And the worst thing is, Mr. Sánchez, in his speech is not only that he belongs to pseudoscience, but that in his speech you also place your obsessions. You're against Naturgy. I'm not going to defend Naturgy, besides I'm not going to defend her and less after what she did in the Coruña with the complicity of her party, with the closure of the Museum of Contemporary Art. Naturgy was an industrial partner and is Sogama's minority partner. And Naturgy only did business when he got dividends. And I want to remind you that the last dividends you collected was in 2006 and 2007, four and five million, nine million in total. And that was with the Bipartite, because with the Bipartite it was understood to be Sogama as a business, a business for Naturgy through the dividends, but also a business for those who paid the cost of doing the own work they had to do, for what they were earning a salary, for the more they added the cost aids. And also, of course, you can tell me if you know if the Bipartite has increased the staff frame and who has done business with that staff frame increment. Within its mantras, within its myths, within its falsities: Europe. Europe supports this model, so much so that Galicia receives seventy-two million euros from the Connection Fund. The only project at the time that was not from communication infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen, the evaluation made by the European Commission in 2012 ex post was that it said it brought important benefits to the community. There are 500 seven energy recovery plants across Europe. The percentages of energy recovery — I have it here — for example: in Spain there is a 13 percent, bad. Because if you then see the average, it's twenty-seven percent of Europe. But countries like Sweden, like Belgium, like Denmark, like Norway, like Germany are over 50 percent. Strange, extraordinary is what happens in our country. And Galicia is in line with what is being done in Europe. But not only that, I've already told you when it was the budget debate: that even you add up to that. Here we have the Barcelona Town Hall put in place its own electric power. Ninety percent of the electricity it generates for the self-consumption of your city comes from an energy recovery plant. It's true that as there was some conflict, as it was moved, as there was some controversy, what this plant is doing is selling electricity to Endesa and then the public society that Ada Colau created is buying back the same amount of electricity to Endesa with energy certificate. But not only does this happen to Ada Colau, is that the Galician Valtalia — we knew him the other day — takes the contract to build the Asturian Sogama. That is, the Socialist Party of Asturias, which seems to have a lot more sympathy than the populist party of the Socialist Party of Galicia and, above all, what it has is surely much more concerned about its citizens than you have, and surely it defends the interests of the Asturias Socialist Party of Asturias much better than you defend the interests of the Greeks, well, because it will build a complex of eighty-one thousand square meters to do exactly what Sogama is doing in Galicia. In relation to the comparison with the other models we have in Galicia, which are the ones you are defending, models that bet — and you have to say so — on the dump. Because the more than 50 percent of the waste treatment destination is the dump, the more you say the model is a waste dump model. It doesn't even look like that, even his model. And they've already said the data, of course. The percentage of greenery in the Sogama model is about...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u113	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u114	...now even less than twenty-eight percent, and it's decreasing. And we have a ten percent target. Very under the fifty-three percent Nostián has. You've been ruling in the Coruña for four years, and you've been sending fifty-three percent to the dump. That's the hypocrisy the Tide has. Of course, you arrive here and come with the models and come with your imaginations, with your things, but soon when they rule for four years, ruling without even having the total execution of the budget, and they are incapable of that, with the aggravating...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u115	End, end, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u116	...that not only are they destined for Nostián fifty-three percent, but, besides, fifty-three percent goes to the dump. And you know, besides, what's that dump they're using? The one from Miramontes, in Grixoa. And then you'll put yourself on the front lines of the signs saying they don't want the waste to go there.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u117	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u118	You talk to your mayor, you talk to Mr. Ferreiro and stop sending...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u119	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. End, end, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u120	But we're against sending the dump, and this is linked to climate change, is that in the dump it emits nineteen times more than CO2...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u121	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u122	...that in any of the other models. And that's the model...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u123	Thank you, Mr. Trenor, your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u124	...so you're betting. You don't see it, you follow in your myths. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u125	Thank you. Your time is up. That's it. Look at the electronic system. Replica, Environmental Adviser, Territory and Housing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I believe I have been attentive to the observations and contributions that you have made, because here is what it is, firstly, to say that there is a preliminary draft of law, the second is to say that you contribute to that preliminary draft of law and say what is the model you would like for a future, and finally, as we will still have a lot of time to work, I hope that I can come to a conclusion, that right now -- believe me -- I don't have it at all. Mr. Bará, you told me if I knew Furelos. How am I not going to meet Furelos? Is that my county? What if I remember Furelos? Of course I remember Furelos. And you know what business has to do? So they're installed and they have their own debugger, and those companies that don't use the debugger must investigate, know what they are and therefore the corresponding penalty. But I say to him, do you also remember that a debugger was going to be built and that there was a mayor of the BNG who is judged because he certified a work and gave a payment order, a work that never took place? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm saying it's good that when you pull something out, then all the information is given. [[Murmurs.]] From there...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u127	Quiet, please. Mr. Rivas, be quiet! Quiet, Mr. Rivas. [[Murmurs.]] That's it. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u128	What we are giving here, Mr Bará and the rest of the Members, ladies and gentlemen, are real data and data that can be contrasted. What's better? Of course, that's why we're here, that's why we're working, and that's why we give them information, and that's why we want to comply not only with European guidelines but go further. And we're talking about revaluing, and Sogama is doing it to revaluing. And here you can point to certain ways, and I think it was Mr. Bará who said that we were focused on the fashion of circular economy and green employment. I'll sit down. The Government is in the fashion of green employment and the circular economy. And you remain annihilated in other ways of so-called capitalism of predators or not predators. From there you also named The Houselonga, and I have to tell you that the attitude of the Galician Union was exemplary. We did what we did was our reports, and the municipalities have certain responsibilities and have the option to change their general municipal management plans. And right now what's the subject at Casalonga? Well, there won't be any kind of dump in Casalonga. And who says? The Environmental Advisor. Why do you say that? Because there are technical reports that support it. [[Applause]] Mrs. Vilán, you were talking to me about political regeneration, and I believe in political regeneration, where I don't believe it's in that regeneration that because I don't agree every day I resign one of the lists. But, well, that's everyone......everyone there how he does and wherever he wants to get. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So I didn't talk about regeneration, spoke to Mrs. Vilán, and I just smiled and said I believe... [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u129	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u130	...but not in that, but in other regenerations.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u131	Quiet. Mr. White Paradelo, please be quiet. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u132	From that point on, I was actually saying that you're coming to announce. Of course, it's just that environmental policies don't get out of a chisera, that you have to have an organizational chart. So should we comply without counting on society? No, we meet with society. And I was telling them this morning that I had a meeting with over 200 people where they were city hall technicians, because here we suddenly brought out some data where we said it all went wrong and who did it wrong. Town halls, too. Are we saying they didn't do anything at all? No, believe me, they did a lot of work with the municipalities, they did it with their technicians, and this morning we also introduced the draft law and we did it with the university, with the municipalities, with technicians, but not only from Galicia, but also technicians from all over Spain, and with representatives from the ministry. [[Applause]] And then I go into details as far as matter is concerned, but these are things that are going to draw attention and that I didn't want to forget to answer them. And Mr. Sánchez, I'd like to know what kind of model you want. And, then, Galicia is what it is, we have three floors. If it's the Nostián model, I think that's not the model that the Galician Union wants, it's not the model that society wants. And Mr. Trenor said that this model is empty and rejects more than 50 percent of the waste. Where'd that garbage come from? Yes, indeed, I came to Grixoa. And it was very easy to criticize him, but in the end, who acted at the Galician Council, was the Environment Council. And believe me, Mr. Trenor, that you won't have a chance to put yourself behind a sign because from next Monday, Nostián's garbage won't be able to get into Grixoa. And so it was reported yesterday to the company, through a change in the office of integrated environmental authorization, because in the end it did not act either the mayor of Santiago or the mayor of the Crown. The mayor of the Coruña knew that that's not the model to follow, because fifty percent goes to a dump, and there it certainly doesn't appreciate anything at all. And the mayor of Santiago also did nothing to protect his neighbours, except to meet them to give them off, to tell them that it was the Council and he had nothing to do, when there are competences, and those competences is the control, for example, of his trucks. And just as he acted on his own initiative, the Environment Council could act on his own behalf by the mayor of Santiago, and he didn't. [[Applause]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we want to place Galicia at the vanguard of communities in the area of waste management. And believe me we're going to get it, and we're gonna get it out of the city council and get it out of the hands of the whole society. And we're taking the necessary steps to make it so. On the one hand, with the updating and modernisation of the regulatory framework, which was necessary, it was necessary. And here I hold their hand again, make their contributions, believe me that they will be studied, that they will be seen well. And from that point on, it's about vertebrating Galicia, making it stronger in a fundamental issue, which is sustainability. On the other hand, the consolidation of our reference model. And I'm not saying that it's a Sogama reference model, it's a scientific reality. A scientific reality that once and a thousand times, as you instead of valuing want to talk about burning, and then we're talking about emissions, I want to leave the quiet society and you're also talking about Sogama emission parameters, which are far below the legal limits: in particles, the limit is in ten and the Sogama value is two; in nitrogen oxide, the legal limit is in two hundred, in Sogama, sixty-five; sulphur dioxide, legal limit, fifty-two; and Sogama, two; carbon monoxide, legal limit, fifty, in the case of Sogama, 8.9. And so I could tell you about each of the parameters, more than anything, because what we should not be fooling people, but telling them reality and truth. And then alongside those realities and truths, because each political party or every member, depending on the case, will say what is the model by which he chooses. And then we're putting in place the necessary measures along with the municipalities to improve waste management. And, in fact, this is going to give a job, work that's huge. And the Galician Union is contributing to the councils to make it effective, because it's up to these municipalities, but we don't want to leave them alone. So we've got a first contest, a contest in which all those municipalities that wanted already have containers for bioresidues. And I believe that there is now an important job left by means of it, because they have to make the corresponding modification of their contracts with different companies, but they're going to have the places enabled for the deposit and therefore for their composting. And then consciousness. It's just that it attracts me to the attention that you laugh at what social awareness is. If, in the end, the garbage we have in the sea is the garbage that takes humans out, comes from where they come from, and we have to realize that that can't be the case. Plastic, whether agricultural plastics or not that we find in places, is because we do it for humans, with which we have to raise awareness. Mrs. Vilan said we don't do any kind of campaigns, and I think it's all about you in the media. But apart from the media, the hundreds of days go by. And I was setting an example that is a simple contest where we got to one hundred and fifty schools and where they collected forty-four tons of batteries and batteries. I mean, it's the real consciousness that starts from the base. But just like we do to the children, we do it in college, we do it to the company and we do it to the schools and the municipalities. So, Sogama, for example next? Of course. And Mr. Trenor said it's not that he's an example in Galicia, it's an example -- and he's assuming -- recently in Asturias, and he's been out in all the media. It's a Greek company that's going to build Asturian Sogama. But not only the Asturian Sogama, is that plants like Sogama, with lower technology, are one hundred and fifty-six, for example, in Germany. And we say Germany for not saying the one hundred and fifty plants of Sogama-like valorization that are also in France. With which, I don't know which path you want to follow, but we're going to continue to implement technology to continue with the Sogama model and thus reach those parameters that mark us Europe. And Europe tells us, you value it, and that's what we're doing. And, in addition, when he talks about zero technical greenery, which comes to be ten percent going to a dump — he said earlier — Europe marks the year 2035, and Galicia is going to achieve it in 2020. They still don't like the model, I have to repeat again that ninety-four percent of the Greeks chose Sogama; convinces Galicia and convinces the rest of the places. Therefore, the most advanced and efficient plant in Spain is that of Sogama, in Cerceda. You don't like energy recovery, which is the model that European countries are adopting; countries that are committed to the environment, where energy recovery consists of the treatment of the non-recyclable fraction par excellence and to the detriment of landfills. So Sogama generated in energy twelve percent of the consumption of Greek homes, using vanguard technologies, using state-of-the-art technologies, which allow you to keep all emissions very well below the legal limits, as I would have known them earlier. And now that's connected, we can talk about jobs, which are 500 direct jobs and the waste treatment of 2.2 million Greeks. Thanks to an effort, and to an effort that comes not from now, which comes not from a few months, but from people who have previously led environmental policies, and also -- you have to say -- thanks to the effort made by the Greek councils. So here we come, and so we have to follow, and follow that line because I can give them the data from Lousame. In Lousame, 59.8 percent of the waste is diverted, that is, it's not, it's not valued, it's not recycled in Nostián, 51.9 percent. In view of that, sogama is 25.91 percent, and by 2020 we will reach ten percent. What you're doing, ladies and gentlemen, is betting on waste management in a more efficient and effective way, a matter in which you've been working hard in the last ten years and a decade in which you've approved the Galician Urban Waste Management Plan and approved the Galician Industrial Waste Plan 2016-2022. In both of us, we put in place the design and execution of actions that we are planning on ourselves, where prevention is fundamental. We increased by twenty-one percent the clean points. I thought I'd listen to someone who had no control over those clean spots, and this means that ninety percent of the Greeks have a clean spot at their disposal. And we're going beyond models to re-use and go along the way that all the electrical and electronic parts are not just one use, but we're able to fix it, use it again and create green jobs. We're done with the dump models, there's no more dump where there's no control over it. In 2013, the last unauthorized municipal dump in Galicia was closed. Close to 40 awareness-raising and environmental education campaigns have been launched. We have eliminated from April 2009 about a thousand points of uncontrolled greenery in Galicia, specifically in one hundred twenty-three municipalities, and with an investment of 6.4 million euros. And we've developed bioresidue or separate organic fraction collection initiatives and aids. We are dealing with the new waste law, which tries to be at national vanguard, including the principles of circular economy. Today only three communities have regulations adapted to state law; these are Balearics, Andalusia and Navarre. We want to fight two of the main problems: food waste and plastics, because we know it's very important to put our big sand to stop these kinds of problems. But there and for that we have to count on everyone, especially in the case of food waste. Why? Because a third of the foods that are produced in the world for human consumption end up being wasted. In Europe, 80 million tonnes of food will be wasted. So we want to work with the sectors involved, but we also want to get to each home by taking us through the law in practice, which many of them are already taking in Galicia, but must be written. In addition, we want to fight against the pollution generated by plastics, going beyond the bags, Mrs Vilán, who actually put himself on the table, but we have to be aware that not only is it useful to pay for carrying a plastic bag, that's a small brake, we have to go towards the total disappearance of plastic bags in the year 2021. And what some people think is nonsense, which is the ban on the sale of single-use vexella. And it's not such nonsense from the moment we celebrate, for example, St. John and our beaches are filled with plastic of one use, which from the passing of the law will be totally forbidden. To improve the text we're going to work with, of course we're going to collect all those initiatives, all those close to you moving us, I'm sure they're going to be enriching, listening to those we have closer and knowing in depth what the situation is. In short, I think we are faced with a law that is essential to Galicia and will allow us to continue working towards what we want, which is a more sustainable future. A rule that will undoubtedly be a cornerstone in our environmental policy and that united to other measures will cause us to leave those who come after a healthier world, regardless of whether the data assess us, that the situation in Galicia is good and that last Saturday was celebrated on Meteorology Day. Last Friday Meteogalicia was open to different visits; there were geographers, there were schools, and you gave them all that we did in Galicia by the environment and also by the quality of our air. And since they're getting kids, we have to tell them that in Galicia you breathe air of very good quality and they're going to put on different points of Galicia screens where you're going to measure the quality of the air, that you're going to give them information about the situation, as well as about time. [[Applause]] So we start a path that is a good path, the path of all the Greeks and all the Greeks; that we hope that you will make your contributions; that the controls that are made and will be done from the Environmental Council are very exhaustive; that I told you a while ago that in the case of Grixoa, of course, what we would do would be modify the integrated environmental authorization. And today I can tell you that from next week you won't enter Grixoa anything from Nostian. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u133	Thank you, Counselor. They'd be aware of the arrival of the third- and fourth-primary students from downtown La Seara, Moaña. We welcome them and them and the teachers and the teachers who accompany us. They brought some joy here to the hemicycle. So welcome. Special round of clarifications. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u134	Thank you, President. I also want to welcome the student from the school of La Seara from Moaña. Counselor, after listening to you here, I was thinking: Go hire Ence to your next commercial spot, to sell the kindness of the so-called "biofactory," which says it only smells three days a year; says Ence in the propaganda of his biofactory. [[Applause]] You, of course, would be a good publicist for Ence, to try to sell this stinking and polluting smoke from Sogama and Ence, which we already told him we didn't buy. Look: you tried to bring here a debate on a draft draft draft draft waste law, but it's just that it doesn't play, Counsellor; parliamentary groups will already intervene when the debate comes to the chamber. Now is the time for them to intervene, to make allegations, for example, social agents, institutional agents. Then we'll have the debate here; don't worry that we'll have the debate and there'll be a lot to talk about when the draft law comes here. What we asked him and what we proposed was a general debate on waste. And we asked him, for example, that you have not answered us, why they are in breach of state, European and German legislation, why, for example, they will not meet the target of 50 percent of the recycling that marks the law and the rule that is in force, why they will not comply, that they will not comply with it in 2020. You know why? Because you have not addressed the main issue in the public debate and the main social need, which is the treatment of bioresidues, organic household waste, which must be done through composting, separate collection and composting. You were neither able nor able to implement throughout Galicia and propose a separate collection model of bioresidues and composting, which you are bravely doing, for example, the Deputy of Pontevedra. We offer you a thousand times to reach agreements, to sit down and talk about taking advantage of those experiences and moving them to the rest of the country, with the changes you have to make. And we haven't come here to defend either Lousam or Nostián, because they're models that are already overcome, they're obsolete, but they still have better results than Sogama. I have the data here. Look, for example: in organic matter, Sogama, zero, is that nothing, zero potato; at least in other places they still treat forty-two percent, forty-six percent in organic matter. Of light containers: Sogama, twelve percent; Nostián, thirty-five percent; and Barbanza, fifty percent. Best results from some parameters have at least one. So it's not about defending those models, those systems, but they have better data. The spokesperson for the People's Party said Sogama was a successful project; for Naturgy, a round business. [[Laughter]] That's the circular economy: round business for Naturgy. That's the reality. Because what bill for Sogama to dry the garbage and then burn it and the fuel to burn it? They're the companies of the Naturgy group. But what are they telling us here? Do you think we're stupid? What were we born yesterday? Don't come with milongas here, gentlemen of the People's Party. You are in breach of a fundamental principle of waste treatment, which is the principle of self-sufficiency and proximity. The garbage needs to be treated as close as possible as possible, as proposed by Revitalize: domestic composting, community composting next door. This is also prevention, the first and main point of the waste treatment hierarchy scale. And you made a composting plant, which says here, "All ready for the launch of a new composting plant in Sogama," ended in February 2008, and they were unable to put it into operation. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows the House a printed leaflet.]] You didn't tell me anything. When is this plant going to work?, how many deals are there with municipalities?, when are they going to take the bioresidues there to compost? By the way, in the news you illustrate with a photograph, do you know who? [[Mr. Bará Torres shows the House a printed leaflet.]] The Vice-President of the Parliament of Pontevedra and Mrs Eva Vilaverde of the BNG, because the only serious example being done in the country is that of Revitalisa in this regard. And that's why they had to take a picture. Because, of course, when they talk about the transformation and use of the subscription, they can't set any example of the Galician Union. Besides, I'm not telling you anymore at the climate change plant that's Sogama with the amount of CO2 you see in the atmosphere. You told me about the Casalonga, and I thank you very much for talking about the Casalonga. Why do you know who stopped that mud treatment plant project in Casalonga? The social mobilization of people, the mobilization of people, was the one that paralyzed The Houselonga, and that forced the council to make a negative report on urban compatibility. That was the reason for the paralysis. But now they have another sword from Damocles, they have another threat, which is a plant to turn that quarry into a dump of waste... it's there, and there's land movements there, and we've already asked you questions so they can take steps to paralyze both the Town Hall and Galician Union those moves they're making. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But it is not only The Casalonga, the Casalonga, that is the example of the 200 sites being bought, not by companies that are engaged in mining, but by companies that devote themselves to waste to turning them into landfills. And you in the law open the door to that possibility, because it's going to be Minas who authorizes those projects. And he didn't tell me anything about whether you're going to bet on a return and return deposit system, which is the future, is what advanced countries use. And, finally, Madam Counselor, you come here with that hollow and empty speech that Galicia is at the vanguard of Europe and the world, which is like saying nothing. That's an empty speech, we didn't buy it from him. You say here they come with multierres, and you're not in the multierres, they're in the wrong wrong, in regression and backwardness, in the past, which is Sogama: incineration. That's not the future, the future goes the other way.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u135	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u136	And we, of course, offer you the opportunity to reach agreements to solve this very serious problem that our societies have, which is how to treat better, how to solve the problem of waste treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u137	Thank you, Mr Bará. Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u138	Thank you, President. We fire students at the school The Seaara de Moaña and its teachers. Counselor, you were wondering what our model is. I can tell you that tomorrow we're going to bring a non-law proposition with a model that matches what you just said, exactly the same as everything you told us. That means tomorrow you're going to vote in favour of our not-law proposal. That's our model. That's the model we've been telling you for a long time. [[Applause]] Our model is also that of the Pontevedra Parliament, and the option for the composting system. Of course, it's not the model of the city of Ourense, which has been waiting for five years for the replacement of its buried containers. Since 2014, a Socialist Government has agreed in full, and has approved, the replenishment of the containers, and they have been waiting for five years for their mayor, who is currently following the People's Party, to make the decision and indeed execute that decision of the plenary. That sure as hell isn't our model. You said they had an organizational chart, and they've been ruling for almost ten years. The bad thing is that its waste organizational chart is 2008 and it was preceded by the Community directive, also the year 2008, and it was already born out of date. That's the problem, which was already born obsolete. You had the prediction of eleven compost plants, and we've already said it: there's not one in operation, not even one. And why didn't you implant them, Counselor? Why? Why are there not eleven compost plants after 2008 in Galicia to manage urban waste that can go to compost plants, bioresidues?, why? Because you really don't believe in composting, you believe in Sogama. That's the problem. You believe in Sogama and energy recovery. That's what you believe. They never bet on composting. If they were to bet on composting there would be eleven compost plants, which are in their plan. It wasn't ours, it was yours, and you didn't put them into operation. There's one that's not even working. You talked about awareness campaigns. See if it's easy to carry out a awareness campaign that a bunch of boys, thousands of boys who are missing one day from the class with cardboard sandwiches, are able to raise the whole world's awareness. And you're only able to get forty-four tons of batteries through a contest called "Know the Clouds," "Know the Clouds" That's the only thing you can do. [[Protests.]] You're campaigning in schools, in education. But the kids don't throw the garbage in the houses, they don't separate. The ones who consume most are their parents, and there are no awareness campaigns. Counselor, you don't exist, you don't have these campaigns, you use social networks, I won't tell you, I'm not an expert in communication, but you suppose you'll have people in your department who will know how to do it. You set an example for Germany; Mr. Trenor also set an example for Germany. In Germany there is a glass and plastic prevention system, which is the return and return deposit system; it was the first European country to put it into operation. You also copy that system. Why don't they copy it? Why did they vote against a study in Galicia for that system? He didn't answer me, I don't know why they voted against, because that system in Germany works. If it works in Germany, why isn't it done here? Because it's good that Sogama exists. Sogama has to exist because it is essential, because there is material that is not recyclable or can be reused that will necessarily have to go to incineration. We all know that. But you have to try to minimize everything that reaches Sogama, which is the last resort. And you don't bet on either awareness, prevention, recycling or recycling of bioresidues. They haven't done it in the last ten years, Counselor. And that's why we're at the limits we're at. That's the problem, and you should recognize that this has not been done. I'm just telling you again: you recover in Sogama five percent, it's recoverable and recyclable only five percent of what comes in. It's data from the 2018 report, it's not your own opinion, it's Sogama's own report. If there are dumps in Galicia, it's not true... Grixoa is a dump, it's also an organic waste dump. And that's not what we say, that's what the Prosecutor of Galicia has said, and there's opened a criminal procedure precisely for the possible commission of an environmental crime. And that data comes out of your reports, from your advisor's reports, which until you were asked didn't get them out of the light or brought them to the prosecutor's office, counsellor. That's right. [[Applause]] It must have been a platform that brought that data to the Prosecutor, you didn't go. And he had us, eh! So much so that's yours. It would be good if instead of coming here talking to us about a law that is not even a bill yet, that will come here and at that moment we will make our contributions, and instead of coming here telling us a movie about how nice it is, "How beautiful you are to live" -- it was the film -- because that's your film, counselor. Speaking of makeup, poses, circular economies, they recognize, they make, first, a real diagnosis of the country, how waste management is in the country, and from there we can talk about something serious. And tomorrow you have the opportunity to vote in favour of our non-law proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u140	Good morning to all of you. Mr. Trenor said I'm obsessed with Naturgy, because it's true: I'm obsessed with Naturgy, with the electrics, with the relations of the People's Party politicians with the electrics, and what conditions the Naturgy business, for example, the waste management model. [[Murmurs.]] Of course I'm obsessed because it's crucial to how this model is developing. It's just that there's nothing to explain if it's not for Nartugy's business. And Naturgy's business isn't dividend, Mr. Trenor. In the distribution of dividends, at least fifty-one percent still goes to Galician Union. When there is no distribution of dividends and what there is is the increase in gas supply and electricity supply contracts, the only thing doing business is Nartugy, right? Because we're talking about gas supply contracts of, for example, 40 million euros, nothing more or nothing less, or electricity supplies of 20 million euros, repeatedly renewed to the same company that is part of Sogama: Naturgy. Of course I'm obsessed. Yes, sir, because what incentive does Sogama have to reduce the residue that goes into incineration if the more it enters, the more business for the negotiator company, which has forty-nine percent of that? Not in vain from 2016 to 2017 has increased electricity sales 1,300,000 euros, and that's for something. And it's not worth sixty-one percent of the waste that comes in is treated by incineration, which is not valorization. Incineration is not rated. Because, as Article 10 says, the European directive must have an energy efficiency index of 0.6, which is a formula between the ratio of energy consumed to burn and the energy produced. And once again the advisor didn't answer; he says what the efficiency rate of Sogama is, but it doesn't reach 0.6 percent by far. So it's not valorization, it's elimination. And, therefore, we have a model that eliminates about 90 percent of the waste it treats, and only recycling eleven-ten percent — depending on the year — or three percent in a year, as in 2015 — Sogama's latest record of activities. That's why we say that this model is not a reference model, as much as they repeat it. And I was asking about our model and Nostián. Home!, of course, when we see here how generous you are in your time, how much you have a waste plan from twelve years to twelve years, endlessly governing you, and we are far from fulfilling the objectives of the European Union. And now it turns out that because the Government of the Coruña is in the hands of the Atlantic Sea, in four years they had to become responsible and move down the Nostián plant, which is a few years old. All right, one more sample of his manipulation. Just like when they take responsibility for what's going on in Miramontes to the Town Hall of Coruña. I suppose driving to dumps in this country is legal, and who are responsible for complying with the law with the companies that manage landfills are you. And you're the ones who have to watch. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u141	Mr. Trenor, it's your turn. Answer him from here later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u142	So you're responsible. And you just missed the neighbors, I'll move them what you said. Joiner's office performance? Nothing said, you acted after a long time the neighbors were reporting, neighbors who bore constant smells and leached at the local creeks. While you guys didn't do anything and you weren't watching, you allowed waste to come in that you didn't have the characteristics for which the dump was authorized. It's a lack of respect that you say the Board acted out of office. Well, the model. Look: the model is here, European directive. My model is to make an effort in prevention. [[Mr. Sánchez García shows Mrs. Environmental Counsellor, Territory and Living a Sheet.]] Here's what the budget effort Galician Union makes in prevention activities, right? Because now you come with the plastic and all that. What, for example, did Jointa do in public procurement? Was there anything in the public purchase of the Galician board that was meant to have been less waste in the containers, and so on, and so forth? Nothing! How much is the budget effort that makes Galician Union, all budgets, in prevention? For example, what effort did the Sogama model make in the separation of bioresidues? How much organic matter is recycled?, what is the percentage of organic matter that is recycled? That we have, according to the plan that you yourself have approved, that you have a capacity of two hundred and seven thousand tons installed for the year 2020, and you are the only one that will meet is fifteen thousand tons; when you have to make eleven composting plants and you are going to make one of the eleven. It's your plan, not ours. Then prepare for re-use. What budget effort do you make for the re-use effort? Recycled, what is the end result of so many years of star management of the Sogama model in recycling, Counselor? Say the data! Tell the data how much the Sogama model recycles. And then, in the end, another type of valorization, for example, energy valuation — which is not — and elimination. Of course, there are incinerators in Europe, but it's not the same as the incinerators when after they've done all the effort in the first steps of the chain they come and, finally, when there's no more remedy, they incinerate, which is not like you, who incinerate the sixty-one percent of the waste they go in. Tell me, Counselor! Less demagogy. Is it good or not that four percent of treated waste had been increased in 2018? Is that a good data for prevention? Say budget efforts in prevention and recycling? I'm telling you, up until now, 90 percent of the investments went to incineration...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u143	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u144	...to improve incineration. That's what I'm telling you. Then answer how the targets will be met by 2020, Counsellor. How will the recycling data, for example, be met for organic matter?, how will they do it? We're in 2019, the latest memory data were talking about recycling 3.32 percent, how are we going to get to 50 percent? Those are the things you have to answer, Counselor; don't come here to talk about a preliminary draft of law to escape from the real responsibilities that you have to account for here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u145	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. We now greet the students of the Grove Common Centre — they are pupils of the fifth and sixth primary — and their teachers as well. Welcome to Parliament! And now you have the floor for Mr Trenor's People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u146	A greeting to the children of the Grove. Mr. Sánchez, you didn't say what you're going to do with all the garbage from the tide: 200 tons a day; I mean the garbage that's produced in the cities that are sending the Grixoa and that they won't be able to do now. I'd like you to have said something, too, but it's better to keep quiet and not to have the slightest responsibility. Just as Mr. Martiño had powers and had the responsibility to control the trucks entering the plant, and he did absolutely no control of Mr. Noriega. And I imagine that also the one who pays for taking his garbage to a dump has some responsibility as well. But not for you, for you, responsibility is exhausted here in the Council and there is no more responsibility. The rest are, well, it takes more time, it's understandable, sometimes, perhaps, it's friends... I mean, anything, it's worth any justification. Mr Bará, to clarify this, the audience asked her own advisor, you didn't pose anything at all. The advisor comes here because he came to talk about the waste policy of our community, and he did it on his own will. With reference to composting, you're either a mind or we're actually so sectarian that we're not able to analyze and see reality. The model for which the People's Party bets is a model that is complementary in the management and treatment of urban waste. The model you are proposing is a community compost model, which is questioned in all places where it has been attempted to implant, due to its low efficiency and also because it has a lot of impact, above all, on the neighborhood. We bet on a complementary model, and we also believe that the composting model that must be applied must be an industrial composting model and the domestic composting model. And that's why an industrial composting plant was put in place in the Areosa dump, and there was also an effort for the municipalities to have, on the one hand, specific containers to advance in the implementation of the selective collection of the organic fraction, and on the other hand, a self-composing program through which ten thousand composers were divided into a total of 200 entities. But it's about the data you're talking about -- and since you're also obsessed with this Revitalization Plan -- I want to give you some data. Look, you set up a plan and, for four years now, it's been running, the data we have is very negative. You'll still believe here, you'll have blind faith in your project, I don't know why, because there's not a single data that swallows what you're saying here. More than 10 million euros spent on composting. And look: the neighbors don't pay a waste receipt lower, the municipalities pay less to Sogama, as it's increasing precisely the residue being sent to Sogama; about three percent of waste being sent to Sogama of increase, compared to about two percent that have the rest of the provinces. With which, Mr Bará, I believe that a composting plan that causes more shipments from Pontevedra to Sogama is the only thing that means that your plan fails, that is yes, paying ten million euros. In this respect, I don't think you've said anything about the downside of the cannon to the municipalities, and I think it's a good news. Good management allowed us to pass a public company that you left at the edge of the suspension of payments and with a debt of more than twenty-five million euros. An addiction that was like a slate for the company, a mismanagement that was caused by disproportionate wages, by the collection of diets, and by a series of plugs that were systematic and those that benefited you. And it's true that in order to get the cannon down now, we had to blow up the company. Sogama has spent four years of profits, the total debt has been eliminated, the municipalities comply with their payments, income has been increased by the increase in waste treated and also by the price of electricity. And this evolution allows you to download it now canon about ten percent. There are only two requirements: that the waste produced is reduced and the recycling increased, and that the waste is transferred to the receipts. Did it work? Seventy-seven percent of the municipalities joined together, a saving of 4.7 million and more than 1.8 million Greeks that will benefit from it. But what was the answer?, was the answer equal?, was that equally distributed by the municipalities governed by one party or another? Well, no. Look, mostly almost everyone said yes, but who said no? The Socialist Party. In the province of Coruña, of twenty-three municipalities that did not request the bonus we started: Ares, The Chapel, Honey, Cedera, Sardinia, Fisterra, Laxe, Neda, Black, Oreso, Ponticeso, Pontedeume and The Bridges of García Rodríguez did not subscribe to this bonus. In Lugo, Alfoz, Castroverde, Cervantes, Lancara, Meira, Ourrol, The Pastoral Authority, Pedraphyta do Cebreiro, Pol, A Pontenova, Ribas de Sil, Ribeira de Beijing, Samos, Valadouro. The same thing happens in Pontevedra and the same thing happens in Ourense. There was a warrant on the other side...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u147	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u148	...of the Socialist Party so its mayors don't impact about 10 percent of the drop of the cannon on their neighbours. And that, Your Honor, you think you're boycotting Galician Union, you think you're boycotting this administration, you think it's hurting us. No, it harms the environment, because they're not going to make that effort to reduce waste production...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u149	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u150	...and harms the neighbours for not benefiting...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u151	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u152	But that's the mark of your house...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u153	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u154	...to use institutions in a biased manner...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u155	Thank you, Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u156	...by boycotting or harming...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u157	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u158	...the citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u159	Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u160	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u161	Close of attendance, Environmental, Territory and Living Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am sure that if anyone is aware of the environment, if someone recycles in their homes, those are the girls and the boys who have been visiting us all morning today. And besides, they are the main ones who teach with their parents, with their grandparents, to tell them that we must separate and that we cannot mix everything in a bag, but we have, on the one hand, the plastic; on the other hand, the glass; on the other hand, the cardboard, and on the other hand, the bio-residues, that is, the organic part. Therefore, we will continue to work, Mrs Vilan, in that awareness, which is part of the most children — who are the true teachers then also in their homes. All you learn from a school is what's left for the rest of your life. Mrs. Vilán, I've come to hear here that the Galician Union was not inspecting the dumps because it was off the side of the companies. Yes, Mrs. Vilán, he left the PSOE, he left you, they said no inspections were made. [[Murmurs.]] Well, I'm glad to admit that today you say that if you do inspections, regardless of whether you want to take and drift to the other side. Actually, the prosecutor sees some clues. And where do you see the clues? Well, you see in those reports by the environmental board inspectors. [[Applause]] On the other hand, Mr Bará, you say who stopped Toysal's project was the mobilizations. You see, mobilizations can't stop anything. It would be nice if we were to skip the laws now and, because there is a mobilization, we would turn right or wrong. This is like suddenly we want good time or bad time. We would be good, it would rain now, it would snow afterwards, it would be a real madness. No, mobilizations have to be done, people have a right to express themselves, those behind a banner we must tell the truth. But here who stopped Toysal were the technical reports, just like who for the trash that comes from Nostián to Grixoa are also the technical reports. [[Applause]] You said, Mr. Antonio, that you're going to move the neighbors that it's an insult to say that we act on our own. Of course we act on our own. It is that integrated environmental authorization cannot be changed unless we act in an official manner. But, just as the Environment Council acted, why didn't the mayor of Santiago — because he also gives licenses and can act on his own initiative — act? But you'll also have to tell us -- like we have a lot of records, since inspectors were sent continuously -- how many records there are from the local police, how many technical reports from the Town Hall, what was the result of all this. I don't know, neither did the mayor get in touch with me to get information about what was happening. So, the administration works, the laws are about to be fulfilled, the technicians are with rulers and other rulers and, of course, the opposite is that in the case of Ence, they don't change their strategy from day to day depending on whether there are elections or no elections. On the other hand, when we talk about Sogama and when we talk about the black bag, when we talk about recycling, we have to say that there is a source, and that source is the municipalities. The Galician Union is doing its best to help the municipalities and, therefore, to have containers to separate for the bioresidues and then proceed to their treatment. And don't worry, because they're going to have a plant every 45 kilometers to carry their bioresidues. Don't worry, Mr Bará, you're going to have a plant. [[Murmurs.]] Because we start with the essential, first of all, that they have the containers, that they make the corresponding modification of their contracts. And the plants that are already enabled, which are now 3, Mr. Antonio, we will continue them until 11. And when the municipalities have their work done, don't worry they'll be able to handle themselves properly. [[Applause]] On the other hand, I would like to assume here the model of Pontevedra. I think I'd like to do it, because what's more about who the initiative is if we finally talk about Galicia and talk about municipalities of different colors? But the results don't support them; that is, something we're not doing right. And we have to keep working to raise awareness. I'm just talking about data, I'm not talking about anything else. The province of Pontevedra increases the shipments of waste to Sogama by 2.92 % compared to the average Welsh, by 1.96%. That is the reality, Pontevedra is the province that increases to a greater extent the generation of waste, compared to 0.54 % of the province of Coruña, to 2,53 % of Lugo and 1.29 % of the province of Ourense. That's the reality of the municipalities that are ascribed to Sogama and that are 294. That's where I get the studies and where I get the data, that I don't get them anywhere else but that. Still, I thank them for their participation. The truth is, if someone comes here with the draft law already, there's been no dialogue. When you're actually saying, "Contribute yourself, then you tell us, "Well, you work, we'll work when you touch us." Well, here's what it was all about is that, as it's garbage, as each one of us lifts up garbage, as in our minds we'll have if we're doing it right or wrong, we contribute as much as possible. What do we want? Providing Galicia with a leading, smart, and sustainable economy, as the European Union defines it. And since we're aware of it from the German Government, we have a challenge. And that challenge has brought about a change in the mindset of all of us who must be involved, that we are administrations, society and industry as well. We must go this way together with citizenship, industry and different political groups. And one of our work axes on this road to the circular economy is waste management, because, in the end, managing waste well, actually, as Mrs Vilán said, means stopping, mitigating, as far as possible, climate change, which is a reality that we have there, is a reality that we have to cool, and we must do it among all of us. It is a policy in which we are taking important steps, as by finalizing the text of what will be the future Galician Waste and Contaminated Land Law — we look forward to seeing what will be brought tomorrow, Mrs Vilán, here in Parliament—; by strengthening the Sogama model, which has registered in 2018 a very positive industrial balance and which continues to be a national reference, but also international; by lowering 10% of the Sogama canon — the same as those councils that have not requested it!, because there will be citizens of the first and second years, some will pay less and others will pay more because so decided by the municipalities—; by continuing with the proper management of urban waste, to which we will allocate more than 5.65 million euros, with the measures that we will develop this year through the Galician Urban Waste Plan; and by putting the focus on bioresidies management and the creation of a Galician network of preparation for re-use at all the clean points we have in Galicia. We will also give a boost to the management of industrial waste, following what is set out in our roadmap, equipping it this year with 800,000 euros, working hand in hand for companies to continue to adapt and comply with and bet, betting on the awareness and awareness of society, a matter in which we have been very advanced but on which we still have a long way to go. Finally, we will continue with these education and awareness campaigns, to which we dedicate EUR 2.6 million through social networks, through different entities, and on the streets, at homes, schools, schools, universities, because we know how important it is to citizenship. But without citizenship, we can't do anything at all. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that we have to move forward towards the circular economy, that this is the future. We believe in green jobs, and Galicia can't miss this opportunity. We have to design among everyone the best strategy, which I have given them information today, and we hope that over these months you will make the necessary contribution. Thank you very much for your listening.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u163	Thank you, Counselor. Today the time has been locked. We were about to finish at two and two; i.e., we were going back at four. [[The session is suspended at 2 p.m. and resumed at 4 p.m.]] G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantiños, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece and the demands to be made by the central government in relation to the sector of the Galician electrointensive industry and the temporal employment regulation file submitted by Ferroatlantica
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u164	There's an amendment from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[(G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Abel Losada Álvarez, through his spokesman and in the light of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this motion.Amendment of amendment. Paragraphs 3 and 6 of the resolution should be replaced by the following:"3. Develop the reports and studies necessary to require, as holder of the Xallas River hydroelectric concessions, that Ferroatlantica guarantees the viability of plants both in Cee-Dumbria and in Sabón, maintaining the jobs, the production activity and the investments necessary to meet the assignment requirements.6. In collaboration with the Government of Spain, seek a joint solution that will not allow energy, industrial and domestic consumers to be applied at energy prices due to the application of territorial supplements as long as the remaining resources are not resolved. If the resolution is in favour of the interests of energy companies, negotiate between all administrations that the economic impact is as low as possible for consumers; both in the electro-intensive industrial sector and in domestic consumption affected by any measure of a social nature."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u165	You have the floor to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u166	Good afternoon again. Thank you, Mr. President. Well, today, we present and defend in this chamber the motion arising from the appeal that we made fifteen days ago to Mr. Economie, Employment and Industry Counsellor, confident that today this chamber, this parliament, has the height of vision that, from our point of view, has failed the Counsellor in that debate. It seemed a lie that it was one of the most responsible for economic planning in this country who was arguing with us; rather, we found a counselor in escapist mode and electoral propaganda mode of general elections, instead of being willing to dialogue and willing to seek a position of country in the face of a situation that concerns us. We understand that we have a responsibility with the workers and workers of Ferroatlantics, Sabon and Cee-Dumbria, but also a responsibility, by extension, with this country; the responsibility we see that it sometimes lacks a bit of this government. So today we bring a series of constructive proposals to achieve a common position. Since BNG we have a deep concern about the industrial crisis that's going through this country in general, but also about the electro-intensives in particular, what we're going to talk about later, too, in the non-law propositions of the rest of the afternoon. We are particularly concerned about the situation of Ferroatlantics, which we deserve — we understand — a specific treatment for the characteristics of this situation in particular. Because we understand that there are conditions for the battle: just like we said in 2017 when Mr. Villar Mir tried to speculate with our public resources, we understand that we are in a position to return to the battle and return to his feet. And what it takes to do this is to have two questions: on one side, a government that is willing to exercise as such, and, on the other hand, a clear roadmap. And in that sense, today we bring a number of proposals. I want to remember that more than three months ago, in the last weeks of December 2018, there have been different threats to the Ferroatlantic centers, both for Sabon and for Cee-Dumbria. I also want to remember here that a year ago, in December 2017, in this same chamber, we reached an agreement under the Galician Nationalist Block precisely to sue for Ferroatlantics that had not carried out a process of decommissioning hidden as the workers and workers of Soap. At that time we were able to reach an agreement with the People's Party, but it is true that, given the success, they did not have to apply much in their development, because this very week — next Thursday — they will again concentrate the workers and workers of Ferroatlantica to denounce the situation that is going through that company. We are talking about a company that basically nourishes itself in its operation through a quartz which is absolutely extraordinary at European level and which is extracted in Serrabal, but that is not being used for R & D+i to be located in our country, instead of drifting to other parts of the state. So from here we also want to send all our support to the workers and workers of Soap. As for Cee-Dumbria, I want to remember that the threats we heard at the end of 2018 finally culminated at the beginning of the year, at the two furnaces stop — the 13th and the 14th — starting in January. And about this, he said the other day — and I insist again — that two questions must be taken into account: firstly, that this has already assumed for itself the loss of jobs, some thirty people between temporary and auxiliary people who no longer have a job to survive, and it must be added that this was added to the waste of another oven — the eleven — that had already come recently in time. As was expected, these threats continued to become reality, and on February 14th, the company reported a temporary ERTE dated March 1st, 2019 until February 1st, 2021, nothing more and nothing less than two years. From BNG we understand that this decision is absolutely unjustified. Among the excuses we have heard from the company, for example, we can point out that they were talking about the pause of interruption and its bad outcome. It's true there's been a push and it's true that the result has been bad, but you have to have in mind that that pox is for six months and that this same year — in a little while — there will be another pause to which this company can compete. It is therefore difficult to assume or buy that argument that a six-month pause can justify an ERA of nothing more and nothing less than two years. On the other hand, we also see the good economic results of the group and the plant itself in 2018, or we also see other elements that need to be taken into account, as Ferroatlantica exploits the hydroelectric power plants of the river Xallas — in addition to many other mini-centres — which is a producer of energy, which might even have developed the capacity to self-produce, and therefore, as much as the price of electricity is a very serious problem right now, the fact is that there is some electrointensive company in our country so that this can be a problem that can be solved immediately that is Ferroatlantic. Therefore, they have for us zero credibility the apology of poor payers that Mr. Villar Mir is giving, an apology that comes in a context with which we try to blackmail ourselves. It is true that there is a crisis in the electrointensive sector, that there is an inability to respond by the Galician Union and by the Central Government, and it is true that we have suffered decades of lack of industrial planning and also lack of control of which were the demands that were made to these companies to receive public money. Just go to the door of the Brens factory and see the delineation that it is, which looks like a factory more suitable than the 21st century. All these issues are there, and they also deserve BNG's concern. As we have already announced, this week we have made allegations to the drafter of the status of electrointensive industries, of what we will talk about later. But we understand that in the situation of Ferroatlantics there is one issue that we cannot lose sight of, and we cannot act as if it did not exist, and that Ferroatlantics is there, exists and has multimillionaire benefits for something. And that's something that exploits the Xallas River power stations in exchange for public concessions, concessions that are Welsh and through which it has received important benefits, and we're seeing this company again failing to meet the conditions of maintenance and increase in employment. So the equation is logical: if you want to reduce productive activity, you'll have to tell this company that the Greek public authorities are not willing to accept its blackmail and that you have to enforce that contract. The incognito—we hope that today the People's Party will rectify—is why, out of words, the People's Party is not willing to accompany with votes and with facts that make those conditions necessary, because the time has come for us to make them worth it. We don't know if it's because of Mr. Villar Mir's connection with the financing of the People's Party; we don't know if anyone in Madrid ordered them to stop. We don't know the reasons, but we do know about his apathy: three months after that, on Christmas 2018, we all knew the situation of Ferroatlantics and the concern of workers and workers, they haven't voted in favour of any similar initiative yet, and the other day it seemed like Mr. Count was profiled, once again, on this issue. So today what we demand is a correction. We understand that, regardless of the quite or absolutely different visions that we have of the industrial energy model that this country deserves, we must find a meeting point that this country will not accept blackmails in this sense and that we have in the future this important challenge of curbing a hidden relocation, which is what is today in Sabón and what is today in Cee-Dumbria. In Cee-Dumbria, for example, you know your lordships who are already stopped at the moment two are already — as I mentioned — but it is also necessary to say that the production that was to be done in Brens is diverting to other plants in the group, namely Santander, who, up until now and against the criteria of the Galician Nationalist Block, pay electric light at the same price as our country. In the same month of January, the workers themselves focused on the port of Brens, because they were sending material to other latitudes to produce there. And in that same strategy it fits that this group recently bought a manganese factory in France and that only twenty-four hours — twenty-four hours! — after signing the employment file agreement we knew that Santander's plant was producing 100 percent, incorporating one more oven into its operation. I mean, as long as two ovens stopped working in our country, very close it was beginning to work another one. I know that the People's Party regrets that in this question of Ferroatlantics we speak of Greek resources, of Greek concessions, of Greek decisions, of Greek competences and that they therefore have a lot of this ball — although it wasn't 100 percent — on their roof. We already know they're not used to exercising the German Government, but we want to ask them, once again, to rectify this issue. And today we urge them to act on this issue, not for something random, but because they have room for manoeuvre. I hope that in other industrial crises that are going through this country at the moment, there have been open possibilities on the table as we have in Ferroatlantica. I'm done, ladies. Two weeks ago Mr. Economic and Employment Advisor told us that they were watching and demanding; I don't know where they're watching and demanding, so we see, talking to the workers, watching their statements in the press and seeing reality. In any case, we've been posing that cotton test today: if you're demanding and if you're watching, we understand that there are a lot of issues in this motion that should trigger the positive vote of the People's Party. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u168	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. The truth is that industrial policy is becoming the centre of political activity, let us say, at least in this plenary session. And I want to remember and I want to read the Statute of Galicia's autonomy in terms of competence, because the truth is that I have the feeling of a kind of resurrection of the People's Party in terms of claims to the Government of Spain, that we, in many cases, can share, after a period of restlessness or sleep of the nine and a half years that Mr. Rajoy ruled. Well, indeed, from 2011 to 2018 are seven and a half; it's true. [[Murmurs.]] I would like to read Article 27.13 of the exclusive competences of the Autonomous Community: "Instalations of production, distribution and transport of electricity, when this transport does not leave this territory and its use which does not affect another province or autonomous community", and Article 30, Section 1.2: "Industry, without prejudice to what state rules determine for reasons of security, health or military interest and the rules relating to industries which are subject to the legislation of mines, hydrocarbons and nuclear energy" — which I know, none of what we are talking about at this time. "The authorization to transfer foreign technology is reserved to the sole competence of the State." So indeed, as Mrs Presas said, the adviser, who in the previous plenary said he was watching and demanding, would be very good that he also won his salary and, in addition to watching and demanding — which is a very interesting role of Rin Tin Tin – should make politics, which for that he charges and for that he is an advisor of Economics and Industry. [[Applause]] Of course, all support from the Socialist Group to the workers of Ferroatlantics, as could not be otherwise. But it's also worth knowing what the company's political negotiating strategy is, what part of it is, and its founder and director, that person who declared as being investigated in Punic and Lezo operations, what appeared in the papers of Basel. Yes, he said it was all a lie, but the truth is, to be all a lie, they rushed to break all the computers that, of course, have really surprised me. The Association of Companies with Great Energy Consumption itself has a chart — which is exactly this — on the differential of energy prices between Spain, France and Germany. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez shows you a document to the members of the House.]] And indeed, there's a long period -- the graph didn't change it at all -- from January 2015 to January 2019. The price convergence process is objective. I will not say that it is worth the Government of Pedro Sánchez, but — I insist — the data are there, and I repeat again: it is not the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party who does so, but the Association of Companies with Great Energy Consumption. We know exactly how Ferroatlantic negotiated and we know how the group negotiated in Serrabal at the time of the construction of the AVE. The truth is we have few Members at that time, but we remember those nine hundred million euros that asked the Spanish State — therefore, all citizens — for compensation, something absolutely shocking when they had the technical conditions to extract the material before the work itself. So I think it is appropriate to know who we are — as it were in some way — playing this game. And I repeat once again the absolute respect of the workers. In this Ferroatlantic ERTE, indeed, the price of energy is one of the motivations, but it's not the only one. There's a problem of disinvestment and lack of investment by the brutal company; Mrs. Presas also said: it's enough to take a walk through Cee to see exactly — especially from Corcubion, almost if you see better — the state of the company. There is a very strong consumption of public funds in the restoration and consolidation of the port of Brens, which is practically exclusively for use by Ferroatlantics, and there has been a very important hydroelectric exploitation for a long time. So the truth is, Ferroatlantica owes it -- and I'm not a nationalist -- a lot to this country. It gives the feeling that we're talking about some sort of martyrs of the international capitalist system, but not; we're not talking about any martyrs of the international capitalist system. In any case, I want to make these two fundamental contradictions manifest: the first, the absolute lack of investments in maintenance, and that therefore the price of energy is not everything. I believe that we must demand that the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Energy Transition act to make electro-intensive companies internationally competitive within the framework of the European Union. But it can't be that it's the alibi for companies that have a lot of benefits and disguise them — whether to fund the PP or for other things — to go away from the rosettes. I think it's all right. [[Applause]] Therefore, I believe that the Union has to do what it has to do, in addition to watching, is to demand. You have to exercise an industrial policy agenda that demands that certain conditions be met by these companies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u169	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u170	It can't be that public funds... because it's obvious that, as long as it doesn't change the general regulatory system of electricity tariffs, these electric discounts are going to be paid among all of us: if we pay them in receipt, we pay them all, but if they are paid by the state, we also pay them among all, because sometimes it gives the feeling that we don't. I am surprised, in addition, by the People's Party, that position, when his inciting leader, Mr. Married, announced yesterday the bomb and plate an absolutely demented linear tax discount in redistributive terms, absolutely dementive!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u171	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u172	It's over, Mr. President. So I support employment: everything. To be complicit in negotiating strategies by the companies that — I insist — as much as it contains us, have benefits: the Socialist Party will not do so. Claims to the Government of Spain: also; those necessary for the holding to be viable...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u173	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u174	...but always knowing that's not the last responsibility of the electrointensive production system in this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Losada. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u176	Good afternoon. Well, I'm not going to talk about the current issue of Ferroatlantics, which is already known, nor am I going to talk about the status of electrointensive industries either, because there's another initiative this afternoon. I'm going to focus on the Ferroatlantic situation and why. What are the causes of being in this situation or what would be the causes that would justify an ERE? First of all, what the company argues is the downsizing of the interruptability aid. But is this true? No, it's an absolutely false argument. Why? Indeed, the pauses, bearing in mind that the Socialist Party maintained the system that the People's Party had set up, had fallen from income to businesses. He left it that way; that's why, we are in the situation we are in: because the Socialist Party did not make the decisions it should take to change the pauses that the People's Party set up. [[Murmurs.]] But the Ferroatlantic problem is not that. Ferroatlantic self-produces more than 80 percent of what it consumes. Only with that Ferroatlantic, instead of doing a fabulous business selling energy... last year they had to bill more than forty million euros that should give you more than thirty million euros of benefit, with which, the joint entity that form the hydraulic power plants and the factories of Cee and Dumbria would already have benefits, and that would be extraordinary benefits. But no, Ferroatlantic doesn't want to make self-consumption -- when you can -- what it wants is to sell all the energy and then say that factories aren't profitable. What would be another problem? That the ferromanganese had gone down into the market or that there was no market, but that's not the case. All the minerals in Cee were taken to the Santander factories and the factories they have in the rest of Europe, some factories that have been bought with the benefits that the hydroelectric power plants have given over the last ten years with water from all the Greeks. Then, of course, there is no more cause for an ERE. The company could have the cheapest energy that no company across Europe: our calculations are that between self-consumption and, in fact, the smallest interruption would be below 15 euros per megawatt hour. There's not a single factory in Europe that has that price in energy; but, of course, they don't want it. Then what do you want? So it's very clear what they want: as the operation of the last year of secretaries went wrong to sell them in three, now the operation is the opposite: we ruined factories, closed them and then sold the company. We don't sell the power stations, we sell the company, which, by chance, only the power stations are left. That's the goal of Ferroatlantics. So, we agree, of course, with the BNG motion, but we think we have to go much further, and the Galician Union has elements to go much further. He can't be a profile, he can't be saying he understands the workers, he's going to meet them, etc. The Galician Union has to warn, because there is an agreement and there is a concession, and Ferroatlantica is seriously violating the concession. So, the first thing you have to do for the Galician Union is warn Ferroatlantic that the closure of the ovens, the fall of activity and the ERE for two years completely violate the conditions of the concession. First: negotiation, warning. Second: to continue Ferroatlantica, directly start the process of reversal of concessions. Third: how is it possible that, with hydroelectric power stations practically amortized — with small reforms that have recently been made to them — they charge forty-five million euros, they tell them — in the result account — that they only earn two million? There's safe accounting fraud. We demand that the Galician Council audit to review what costs are being charged to these companies. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, yes; I say it clearly. Yes, I understand. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You don't understand that. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you know how much they charge the power stations for management...?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u177	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u178	What will be done to him. I understand that you don't understand, but that, above, you don't want to learn, that's much more serious. [[Protests.]] I want to explain it; look: the telematic management of these power stations costs on the market, for any other operator, 300 thousand euros. Do you know how much a company of the Villar Mir Group charges them? Seven million euros a year. Is that normal? [[Balbordo.]] Is that market analytical accounting? No, and Galician Union had to check that out. Why? Because the profits of the power stations, according to the concession, have to be to develop an industrial plan on the Death Coast; that's why you don't want to do anything. If I know it's not bad, huh? That the company earns a lot, that will already think about the common good and benefit the whole area. But the problem is that these companies only think of the common good of their shareholders, in this case, of Mr. Villar Mir. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u179	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u180	Then, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and lords of the Government of Galicia: act. We can't be giving the benefits and wealth of the Death Coast to a company that, above, wants to ruin it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u181	Thank you, Mr. Casal. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u182	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Mr. Casal, you, besides being an engineer, what proves is that you know a lot about financial engineering; I don't know why it will be. Because you dare to talk about fraud here in this chamber... the truth is you have to value it, gentlemen. Look, Mrs. Presas, the truth is they show a little how complex they have. Because the source of the problem we all know here is the price of light, and so far the powers at the price of light, Mr. Losada, do not have them the Government of Galicia, you have the Government of the State. And who rules in the State Government? You have to recognize the problem! [[Murmurs.]] The problem is the price of light, and it's not up to Galician Union. That proves how complex you have here, gentlemen. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u183	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u184	If it were the Government of the People's Party in Madrid who was ruling, they wouldn't talk like that; they would be with the shirt and the sign here. Come on, please, don't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u185	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u186	Look, Mrs Presas, let's talk again about another industry in trouble, unfortunately, in our community. We brought here an initiative in October, when the problem of Alcoa arose, and we already warned here that there would be more industries with that kind of problem and that the government of the state had to act. But it did not, and the result was that, within a few months, another industry — in this case, Ferroatlantica — announced an employment regulation file for its 500 workers. Look, the assessment of the situation of Ferroatlantics and the entire electro-intensive industry is very negative, and of course we're all worried about it. I, who have already discussed a number of energy issues in this chamber, have always had to listen here to the Socialist Party's lords, the Galician Nationalist Block and the tides of We can all complaints against the energy regulation set by law by the governments of the People's Party. You say -- or they say -- here it was the People's Party Government that made the laws of energy and that they are very badly done. But why did they have to make the laws we did, gentlemen? Why? To cover up the holes you've systematically made, systematically! [[Murmurs.]] In 2013, they left thirty billion euros of deficit, and they complain because we had to get a law out of the electric sector that only he did was cut. Logic! Because you had to stop that indentation, Mr. Losada. Look, what you can be proud of is that they have the unemployment record -- five million jobs destroyed. And at this point, Mr. Sánchez — he only took nine months, but at last — he will do Mr. Zapatero good. Of course I do, Mr. Losada. Please, a little respect! [[Laughter]] Look: in terms of regulating the electro-intensive industry, they only had to continue with what the Government of the People's Party was doing: at the moment, it was convening energy auctions for the first half of 2018, and for the second half, compensations were planned in the general budget of the state of one hundred and fifty million euros. What did you guys do? Nothing, they didn't use the hundred and fifty million euros and they called for a second bad auction, Mr. Losada, which reduced the 40 percent of what electrointensive companies were talking about. Then what is it? Is that doing good? Man, please! A little respect! They just had to go on and convene a auction, at least similar to the one called by the People's Party. Look: it's true that these companies have already had problems with governments at other times, and we ruled in Madrid, but the problems were solved. They'll have to explain to you why the problems aren't solved now. Why don't you have a solution? It's just that they put out six months to get a draft of a statute from the intensive industry, and when they get it out, it turns out that they don't cover half of the allegations or things that they've been asked for from both the industry, the industry, the workers and the UK government themselves. It is because they have managed to reduce the price of electricity for these companies by two euros the megawatt hour, gentlemen — in two euros! — when the price of electricity is above 50 euros the megawatt. Look, the truth is they have no respect for anyone. All you are is the champions of the destruction of industry, the energy sector and the employment of this country. You are the champions of that, gentlemen. Look, Mrs. Presas, the U.S. government has been and is maintaining permanent contact with the workers, as long as it is. And we agree with this: we also believe that Mr Sánchez's Government must approve a statute of the electro-intensive industry with the proposals and allegations made by the Government of the Union, which, on the other hand, has agreed with the workers and the sector. And we also believe that neither industry nor all the Greek consumers -- that you haven't spoken about it and you're asking for it in your motion, and we think it's important -- we have to pay for the territorial supplement. So we agree with you, so we're going to support these points of your motion and so we ask you to vote for points, to make a common front. A common front that, from here on, from the beginning, has been carried out, and what we want is that it is reciprocal and that there is a common front from the other side, too, from the Government of the State. So, ladies and gentlemen, I want to insist that it is very important for us to have an energy transition that is fair and efficient, but that does not go through the destruction of employment and industry in our community. For our part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u187	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. Author group of the motion, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u188	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon again. Mr. Losada, I thank you for quoting the Statute of Self-Government, because I am already beginning to feel a certain bipolarity because I have to be continually reminding the German Government of the fulfilment of the Statute of Self-Government. He's so, so low on the level of self-government exercise that we've almost seen ourselves forced even, from BNG, to sometimes lower our level of exigencies. We have made it clear what is the strategy of Mr. Villar Mir, we have made it clear that we are facing what is blackmailing Galicia. The question is whether we are willing and willing to say no and correct the attitude of the People's Party or if you are not in favour of asserting these concessions. Because, in fact, they are there, they are the power of the Greek Government—exclusively, of no one else—and they are the best tool to stop the Ferro-Atlantic crisis. It's a shame that in the five minutes you had the spokeswoman of the People's Party, she didn't have forty-five seconds to talk specifically about the situation of Ferroatlantics. I'm a little confused, because, of course, you say that Ferroatlantics care a lot, but then they don't talk about it, they talk about the government of the state in their intervention; then they have a non-law proposition that originally spoke of Ferroatlantics, but they've been self-administered and they don't say anything about Ferroatlantics anymore. I'm starting to doubt whether or not they care about this subject; in any case, we'll vote and we'll see if they care or they don't care. In any case, we — worth the metaphor — are seeing some light, because you said there was a problem with the price of light, the Voiceman of the People's Party also said this week in his press round that there was a problem with the light and last week there was a headline of Nuñez Feijóo. Well, I think they're about to fall off the ass. And since they're saying that we have to lower our rates, the next thing they do is put another name on it and they defend a Greek electric tariff. They're close now. [[Applause]] In any case, I was saying this in my intervention: without denying the general crisis that the electro-intensive industry is experiencing in this country, in Ferro-Atlantics we are talking about another story, because no one believes that the problem of Ferro-Atlantics is, at this moment, just the price of light. It may be a part, but, Mrs. Novoa, it's that they have hydroelectric power stations for them alone that give gross benefits. And so we know perfectly well that the problem is another: the problem is the lack of industrial policy too, which allowed the Xallas river power plants to make the golden egg chickens while they didn't return to the neighborhood. In any case, we understand that we must defend here today, as Parliament, there are several questions: first, that we do not think exactly this ERA, ask for the immediate reactivation of these furnaces and ask for permanent contact with the workers and workers who really are; not only when they cannot bear the pressure they do with their mobilisations or when Mr. Conde is going to give a rally to the Death Coast and then he's going to do an oyster on the 30th day. And they also develop the studies needed to reverse those conditions. We agree that this ERTE is not justified and that it is delocalizing production; these concessions will have to be applied. I know you'd prefer to rule a neighboring association, but this is a country and therefore you have to put yourself at your service. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] And finally, in fact, in our motion we also raise this request that the status of electro-intensives be approved in accordance with the Greek electro-intensive sector. I corrected it, Mrs. Novola: the workers did not agree, they agreed with the employer. In any case, by force and the passing of days, this point has been out of date, because we already know a status... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u189	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u190	...and we have presented our allegations. And finally, welcome the correction of the wrong decisions that Mr. Rajoy made in 2012 and that led us to the fact that now the Greeks and the Greeks are going to have to pay more than anyone for our bill of light. We, as we have told you, do not mind the government of Pedro Sanchez that Mr Rajoy rule. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u191	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u192	We argue that these territorial supplements have to pay them from the state, and we will defend the same position as anyone in Madrid.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u193	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u194	Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u195	The amendments, do you accept the amendment of the Socialist Party?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u196	Let's do a negotiation there.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u197	Thank you. G.P. motion. Mr de In Marea, on the initiative of Mr Antón Sánchez García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of protected housing
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u198	Amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the People's Parliamentary Group have been tabled. [[(G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Maria Luisa Pierres López, through her spokesperson and in the light of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendments to this motion.Amendment of amendment. Paragraph 2 of the resolution must be replaced by the following:"2. Modify Law 2/2016 of Galician soil with the aim of fixing at 30 per cent the minimum percentage of land reserve for housing protection, considering the revision of the derogations referred to in Article 42.9.".Additional amendment.A new point must be added to the resolution part: "2 bis. To disseminate through the web platform of the Galego da Vivenda Observatory the statistical or technical data accompanying the social housing activities, and allowing to know in an up-to-date manner, and among other data, the public park available, for rent or purchase, and the demand for real-time housing for each municipality."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[G. P. Popular de Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Jaime Castineira Broz, through his spokesman and the aberration of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this motion.Amendment of amendment.The text of the resolution must be replaced by the following:"Realising a study on housing needs for social rent, both in terms of quantity and in terms of placement of this request, to incorporate it into the housing plan that replaces the rehaVIta Plan 2015-2020, with a commitment to increase the number of housing for social rent of the public housing park, both owned by the IGVS and local entities, including housing provided by financial entities and lived at the disposal of the administration by individuals through the relevant programmes."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u199	Mr. Sánchez has the floor to formulate the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u200	How long has the People's Party in Central Government not ruled? So it seems, because it turns out that not even what happens in the electric sector has anything to do with what Mr. Rajoy did until less than a year ago. Anyway, how the faces change! By denying the evidence, as in the previous motion, you can also deny that we are living in a new real estate bubble, in this case the bubbling of the renter. It can be denied that the exclusion of the right to housing, the rejections, the enormous difficulties to be emancipated, or the huge percentages of wages to be paid to the home are not social problems of the first magnitude, dramas that destroy lives. Surely — as the Counsellor did — here is denied by the People's Party that we are living for years, this drama, the drama that is not supposed to respect the right to a decent housing; by the way, the right collected in that Spanish Constitution that comes out of walking when it suits them, but when they don't, they don't make policies to comply with it. It will be said that the housing policy of the Galician Union of these years has been immaculate and everything has worked perfectly; they will never hear a self-criticism — a true self-criticism, not that self-criticism that they are doing. We will hear that the Councils of the Tides are very bad and that they have done very wrong in the last four years; we will listen to "Galapagar" and listen to these issues that they use when they have no arguments to defend the work of the Government, a government that has been ruling here for ten years, matching with the People's Party in the Spanish state. We must both collect data and arguments as we have brought in the interpellation: they will repeat the same negationist speech as ever and repeat the tactic of fouling the debate, as always. But in addition, what they want to deny here is not mismanagement — technical errors — they are not wrong because of the malfunction of a government; what they want to deny is the interests that truly refuse and reject their housing policies: the private profit of certain business interests, of voitre funds, of banks and of large promoters. That's what he really ordered in housing policy in the Spanish State and Galicia in recent years. The policies that seek to secure the right to housing for people have long been invented and are not too complicated, are no more complicated than making policies to benefit banks; political will must be given. They're not complicated, but they're not harmless: they have their side effects for most people and they also have side effects for those speculators, the big housing owners who profit from the real estate business. And then the People's Party doesn't happen. And it is not by chance what is happening; we have sufficient perspective to see that the policies of the People's Party have sought in the Spanish State and Galicia the speculative benefit, they are called banks, voyeur funds or constructors: housing promotion, legislative reforms to deregulate the rent and lower the rental time, tax reliefs to the Socimis to do business with renting houses, the discharge of budgets both in the state and in the Galician Union since Mr Feijóo's rule, and the lowest percentage of public housing of social rent, in many cases even selling to Voitre funds — as did Mrs Botella — and, in the case of Galicia, freezing the construction of public housing, practically, and freezing the construction of protected housing. They already said the data two weeks ago: two thousand and nine hundred shelters in Galicia started in 2010; in 2015 there were five and, in 2016, four; between thirty and five and fifty times less than the state average. It wasn't random either. Privileges to banks during the worst years, where thousands of people went to the streets defeated; rescues to the banks; the creation of Sareb... but, instead, they didn't make themselves available to people all these homes because there's no will; what there is, in that case, is advertising and propaganda. Ten years after the explosion of the real estate bubble there are still challenges, it remains impossible for a lot of young people to be emancipated and they continue to be a heavy burden on the high prices of renters — we have seen it repeated. If wages do not rise — on the contrary — if the wages of youth are more precarious and the most unstable jobs, if you do not know where you are going to be working within six months and if, together with that, the renters rise spectacularly as they have been rising in the last three years, we have very easily the result of the equation: there will be evictions, there will be emancipation problems and there will be more burden on the wages of families; personal dramas and social drama. This is a deliberate policy for a few, even if it harms a lot of people. There is no policy in the most socially advanced countries that doesn't count on a powerful public housing market at social prices; not one. In fact, the Spanish State is an anomaly in Europe for having less than one percent of public housing; in the rest of Europe, percentages rise by ten percent. It serves as a solution to this public housing park for many people who do not have access to free market housing, but not only that: it also serves as market regulator and market prices. There is no possible solution to the right to housing without that public housing park at social prices and without it being, in addition, a powerful dimension. The People's Party refuses to be part of its housing policies, and therefore, after thirty years of popular governments in Galicia, we have a ridiculous public park that does not serve as a housing alternative — as we are seeing when we have to give this housing alternative to the people who are being challenged — or as a market regulator. We've seen a very curious case with Sareb, which explains very well why these decisions are not made: not out of clumsiness, not because there are no people competent in governments, not because that affects the interests of those who speculate with housing. The state bought the houses that the banks wanted to buy, the so-called "toxic assets." They spent billions on it and they didn't free themselves for the people who needed them and who were being defeated. Why? Very simple: because the banks demanded it. Because if those thousands of homes were released to give social rents to people, the price of the housing market would go down. And, of course, the first is the first. As we have also seen, the construction of housing for protection has been paralysed here — along with the Spanish State in the construction of housing for protection — and housing budgets have been reduced. When you arrived at the Government in 2009, there were one hundred and eighty-nine million budget, which was 1.79% of the budget and 0.37% of Galician GDP. In 2010, with budgets made by the People's Party, there were one hundred and sixty-two million euros, which was 1.39% of the budget and 0.29% of GDP. In 2019, assuming a rise, there will be 80 million euros, which will mean 0.74 % of the budget and 0.13 % of GDP, almost three times less than in 2010. The important thing for you is to try to silence this reality. The latest proof of the clear policy line of the People's Party is contained in the draft law — which we are debating — of rehabilitation: neither a single measure to mobilize empty housing, nor a single measure to promote social rent and even mention of public housing and soil. And I say, now it's just passed Decree 7/2019 in the Spanish Government, which makes it possible to create an empty housing tax, that tax that you blocked every year that you ruled, refusing to regulateally define the concept of empty housing that was in the local farm law. To see who's here who's doing it and not to comply with legislation. Well, I ask you, are you going to define the concept of empty housing so that the municipalities can charge the empty dwellings? I'd like to know if that's the case. The important thing — as I have already said — is to try to silence that reality that tells us that every day in Galicia there are challenges. Day after day, the most absolute poverty you don't even have a roof to live on. Our motion is simply a call, once again, to bet on the solution of one of the most serious problems — according to our opinion — that this country suffers and to bet on an essential measure, for a public park of housing for social rent with a minimum dimension; to bet on people's rights and empower this public housing park: to make a four-year public housing plan for social rent — because it must already be, because the drama is happening — that duplicates, at least, the existing park and that it dedicates the necessary budgets, and that the Law 8/2012 is amended, causing also to stop the construction of protected housing and that has allowed the reserve of edificability to be reduced for the housing of protection in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u201	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u202	Yes, thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. We cannot make politics without taking into account two assumptions that I consider basic: on the one hand, that policies are for and for people, and, on the other hand, that have to be designed according to the particular reality of these people. And since our group saw that in the debate of the interpellation that preceded this motion there were special discrepancies in the perception of that reality, I find myself obliged to begin by providing data, data that I consider true and contrasted with the IGE, the INE, the memories of the budgets of the Board and the Ministry of Development itself. The first of the data, the forecast of public protection housing reflected in the budgets between 2015 and 2018: the goal for those years of the Galician Union was five hundred eighty-two dwellings. The number of dwellings that were executed with a final public rating in the last four years has been one hundred and fifty-three dwellings, of which center thirty-two were the qualifications of the dwellings in Valdecorvos, in Pontevedra, which had already begun in 2008 — with Bipartite, I would like to remind you. Therefore, even considering the finalizations of works that came years ago, it was not conquered to cover more than twenty-two percent of the forecast. Second important fact: today, in Galicia, self-sustainment evictions are almost three times as much as those that are caused by mortgage executions: 300 and 50. That was exactly the number of Galician families that in 2017 were affected by the processes of defiance of their homes in rent schemes. And, of that, ninety percent was because of income default; that is, about thirty-six percent more of this kind of eviction than in 2013. And there's more rejections for rent defaults than those? Yes, but I'm not from home. Are we less concerned? No, but his reading and his interpretation are quite different. The main housing concerns us especially because it's a figure that, beyond the number, means that statistically around a thousand Greeks and Greeks are so vulnerable economically that they can't keep their access to a free housing in time; that is, about a thousand Greeks and Greeks per year enter the population group in severe situations of risk of social exclusion, and housing policies are not being able to respond to this need. Third data: The register of housing applicants updated today has 13,492 applicants throughout Galicia, with a thousand new applicants in just the last five months, and those around eighty-five percent demand it in rent regime. And, according to the first data I gave them this afternoon, in the last four years, only 0.28 percent of housing applicants have been cared for in Galicia. Fourth significant data: there is a very marked decline in the housing offer in rent scheme throughout Galicia, and I'm telling you an example that is very close to me: the Marin Town Hall. The latest social housings are dated from 1989; that is, exactly thirty years ago, and ruling, by the way, a party like the Socialist Party was in this county. The current demand, according to the plaintiff register, in this county today is of 50 families. [[Applause]] Livestocks offered in rent schemes within the free market in this municipality: exactly fifteen — compared with various agencies in the area — compared to double supply in tourist dwellings. In addition, something that agrees — and much — with the data that the Galega Federation of Real Estate Companies — Fegein — moved at the end of this year 2018: that the offer of rent apartments dropped about thirty-eight percent, with four thousand three hundred real estates offered throughout Galicia. Result: that the vulnerability of those who cannot be greater every day; as simple and as simple as that. Less supply means higher prices and increases the vulnerability gap for many families. I don't know if, as Mr Sánchez said, you can talk about a new real estate bubble, especially in the rental scheme, but it is undoubtedly a reality that is affecting many families and for which solutions must be offered. And by combining all this data, both local and global, what we conclude is that the demand for public housing for the rent scheme is not that it is needed only because of the affordable prices, but because there is not even enough supply in the free regime to meet all the existing demand. Therefore, at this initiative we also present an amendment to add that speaks of the necessary statistical analysis of housing actions in our community, of using an updated and rigorous tool that enables us to know, at every moment, the relationship between supply and demand through the Galego Vivenda Observatory. And the Galician Union, all over this stage, what it can't be about to suck at what's going on but never done. For this group, the speech from the past full of the advisor only confirms that this government likes to cook, knead and stir, if not, how can you explain that the same data and objectives are enumulated for the last time, year after year and advisor after year? He who is hungry doesn't relax with crumbs, he's given bread, and the bread of this Vivenda Councillor's has not only spent these years of ball, but he's getting retired before he can even taste it. And so since our group we have asked this government to put enough wood in the oven to double the offer of rent housing and to conquer, on the same line, the mandate which, on the other hand, has already been assumed with the unanimous approval of the resolution tabled by this group in the last debate of the state of autonomy, and which compromises it with duality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u203	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u204	...of the public housing park on the horizon of the year 2022. We're really looking forward to seeing how it's moving on that road. For our part, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u205	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Castilian.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u206	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mrs. Pierres, I'd tell you that, for cooking, we have nothing else to talk to PSOE, Tezanos, that kitchen... And I have to tell him, once again, that he disappoints me, because you know perfectly well that if we want to talk... truth, don't cook... precisely! [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look: if we want to talk about tourist dwellings—you spoke about Marín—we can talk about Santiago, Pontevedra or many other municipalities in Galicia, just as it is happening in Spain, but it seems that the municipalities have no competence there. You know it as well as I do, and really, if you're going to blame the board of tourist dwellings, it looks like a coat of hair to me. Look, what are the PXOMs for, and what are the orders and powers of the municipalities? To logically regulate perfectly or simply apply in many cases the ordinances that are approved in the general plan. So simple, because many uses are tertiary uses; therefore, simply, for the application of the rules themselves they have in the general plan, in many cases. We've moved on to the following topic: It seems that In Marea and Mr. Antonio are in the campaign; it's normal, I understand it, we're in the campaign, and four years ago, the theme of housing and evictions gave them a lot of revenue at the municipal level, now... isn't it in the campaign? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But something will talk. So four years ago he gave them a lot of performance, and now they're back and they're taking the same canteen out again. They took advantage of the situation, unfortunately, of many families, sold them to motorcycles, and there's no more to see what they've done and what they're doing. In Coruña yes, an important investment; not in the Union's empty housing program, like Ferrol, Santiago and the other places; not that, because maybe it worked, and you have to get in trouble. So what do they do? With the money they had for housing, they bought it to their friends... not friends, advisers of the collective; there they don't know whether they're affiliated or what they are, what we're going to do to them! But friends do. In Santiago, after two years, they follow the empty housing program; they go slowly. But the solution to the issue of housing is to sell the land owned by the municipality — as they have in Romero Donallo or in the Cancellations more than eight thousand square meters of building—for housing; we may be talking about around ninety housings that could be for official protection, but sold for free. And if we go and turn to the great leader of the PSOE, we can go around for Vigo: the housing policy of the PSOE is, in the municipalities, selling the housing, there's no problem. Forty houses just sold in Rosalía de Castro. Of course, the problem is that of the others; then we blame the board and blame the others, but we don't do anything, quite the opposite. "The worse, the better," that's what works for this bench and that's what they played and they're playing with it. [[Applause]] Meanwhile, I'm going to tell you what you're doing to Junta, and what you did to Junta was with a lot less means than you had others when you were here, with a lot less means, that's right; maybe they do a lot more things because they're administered differently. In February 2015, Galician Union approved the RehaVita Plan, a plan to clearly encourage rehabilitation and access to housing and boost rent. That's the 2015-2020 Plan — by 2020 — and that's why our amendment comes to try to start doing studies already for a new plan that will be for the coming years, since for the next year this plan is over. A plan that included, among other things, the sweet measures that were included to prevent the evictions, to fight against the evictions, and that in Galicia, of course, was very effective. And look, they don't have to take the data anymore. Today they did not refer, by the way, to the General Council of the Judiciary; because, look, among all the autonomous communities of Spain, where the most were the releases motivated by the LAU, and if they want, in general, it was also in Galicia: about twenty-four percent. About twenty-four percent is what have been reduced, isn't it to be satisfied? As long as there's only one launch of a habitual housing we'll never be satisfied, and we say it here many times. But look: it's not like that, and that's in Galicia, that you also have to see the data; it's just data, and as the Judiciary itself says -- and that's good for everyone when they get the data out here -- they're not just habitual dwellings, but there's from rustic farms to any kind of urban real estate; any sort of thing, because, often, if there's a garage or a dwelling, even if it's second residence, it counts like two pitches or three. And that's what we have to say. The goal of the Union — as I said — was to make it available to the Greeks and the Greeks — especially those who were in a situation of greater vulnerability — measures to prevent evictions, as was the Social Rental Bonus, which is working — and I think it is very well — and, in addition, they have just expanded, this year precisely in three years, the extensions of three years; it will be extended to six years in aid to rent and rehabilitation, and also in the direction of increasing the public park of housing in rent, which at this time the Junta de Galicia has more than three thousand five hundred households. Three thousand and five hundred dwellings that come to be, one part of them, to increase the public park owned by the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo, and another part, which is the creation of housing of municipal parks, with help to rehabilitate and manage the housing of the masters or housing owned by the municipalities, as well as the Town Council Cooperation Fund and also the availability of housing provided by financial institutions, such as Sareb, among other financial entities that are criticized here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u207	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u208	...but logically, where such housing is necessary. We don't want Sareb's homes in Barreiros or Foz because they're not necessary. If necessary in Vigo, Santiago or La Coruña, curiously, where the municipalities do not collaborate in the program of empty housing or other programs. As soon as — and finished, Mr President — to point 2 of the motion, which goes to the subject of the 30% reservation of the Law of the Land — you spoke of the Law of Housing; I understand that you have been wrong, and it is the Law of the Land, Law 2/2016, which you put into your own motion, the motion, the amendment of it—, the law itself, in article 42, generally establishes a minimum reserve of 30% and only exceptionally regulates the possibility that the municipalities that incorporate it into the general plan set up a percentage of reservation on the basis of the existing real demand...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u209	Thank you, Mr. Castineira. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u210	... guaranteeing, in any case — Mr President, just a second — the reservation that is established, which is more than enough to meet the demand. Look, Galicia has three hundred and thirteen municipalities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u211	Thank you. He's here for today. Thank you, that's it. [[Mr. Castineira Broz utters words that are not perceived.]] It's clear. Thank you. [[Applause]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u212	Good afternoon. Mr. Castineira, I don't know if Mr. Anton Sánchez is in the campaign or not — I understood that he didn't — but, in any case, the BNG will vote in favour of this proposal, because it seems to us a positive proposal, because it goes to one of the central cores of what must be a housing policy to combat residential exclusion. And by the way, those arguments that have been passed on to you have to review them, because of the defiance data you've been talking about, the data from the General Council of the Judiciary, if you're down 24%, some cause will have. I don't know if you've also been told that there's also a cause for this download, which is the strike of Justice last year, which is exactly the one that explains that fall of figures. But it's not really. We agree, don't we? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Okay. He said it is part of a much deeper problem and whose solution is changing all the policies that have to do with housing, especially economic and social policies, and of course increasing public spending in housing, because — Mr Sánchez has already said — at the state level, also in Galicia, we are in the queue of Europe; we are only better than Cyprus and Malta, which is certainly not to be presumed of public housing policies, of public promotion. And besides, as we also said, the Board drastically reduced investment in protected housing from 52 million in 2009 to 7 in 2018; that also explains the data that was said here. Just like low budget execution. We've said it on numerous occasions. They've stopped spending over eleven million euros. They're bad managers, you guys, they're very bad managers. And why not speak of the panacea of rehabilitation, which they promised at the beginning of the mandate, nothing but the rehabilitation of 10,000 homes in historic helmets? Where are those dwellings that would rehabilitate the Galego Institute of Housing and Soil to put them on the market as well as as as housing accessible at subsidized prices? As I said, this is part of the problem, a much bigger problem, which has to do with economic and social policies that they have led to the extraction of income from the working class and hindering access to housing, and which has been aggravated in addition to the speculative policies that are causing — yes, we defend that! — an increase in the price of housing, especially in rent schemes, and that many specialists speak of a real lease bubble, with artificial price increases. There is therefore a need for different policies that go through the public intervention of the Union and the State in the housing market. And look, we don't say that. I'm going to read you a text, see if it sounds like "the housing policy must have a regulatory role in the real estate market and correct its distortions. It is often seen as one of the basic social policies that make up the different models of the state and prevailing well-being in Europe, as well as an effective mechanism for redistribution of income in the pursuit of equity and social cohesion." This puts the RehaVIta Plan, of the Galician Union, but you don't practice these social policies of housing. The reality is that in Galicia there's a lot of housing, there's a lot of empty housing. We have a million six hundred thousand dwellings and there are three hundred thousand empty dwellings in Galicia, which is 18.6% of the total; it's the highest percentage of the state. There are ninety thousand empty houses only in the big cities, in the seven great cities. This should logically, if you mobilize that housing, cause a price drop, but the effect is actually the opposite: it's increasing in recent years, especially the rent price, is overestimating the housing price by 24%. And that's how it's corrected with public intervention, precisely by creating this public housing park at affordable prices for that sector of the population that needs it. But of course, why don't you do this? Because you don't want to touch the interests of the large owners of housing, which are the bank and the large investment funds, the Voitre funds, which are the main owners of real estate in Galicia. We're talking about Sareb, bank and investment funds like, for example, Blackstone, which is the main investment fund voitre, which is curiously based on the Cayman Islands, in a tax haven; that's how these speculators act. Sure, what's going on? That also creates a tax haven here by creating sociomis, with an absolutely non-existent taxation, so that they can speculate precisely at the price of housing in rent. Finally, we support this initiative. We think we have to go much further, with policies that are really much braver and more determined to attack the interests of these large housing owners, to mobilize the empty housing and to make reality what you put into the Constitution but don't comply: the access of the population, as a right, to housing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u213	Thank you, Mr Bará. Author group of the motion, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u214	Thanks a lot to the Galician Nationalist Block and the Socialist Party for supporting the motion. We will try to reach an agreement with the Socialist Party on the basis of its amendment. People's Party can't accept it and then I'll explain why. Mr. Castilian, with whom I am in the campaign he was right in full; there he was touched, touched; I am in the campaign and I do not know; yes, sir. He was as lucky in the other examples as in that one. On the floor of the Coruña is renewing the argumentary of the People's Party. Mr. Fernández Prado I don't think he was very supportive of reporting to the prosecutor's office, because he's a smart person; he's been filed, right? He was filed and you were left without an election campaign, you were left without an election campaign.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u215	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u216	You were left without an election campaign because the prosecutor's office filed a complaint against the People's Party, which was accused of corruption in the Atlantic Sea. Nothing at all. Believe the thief that everyone is of his condition and you think I, if I bring this here, is because I'm in the campaign, and he's implicitly confessing that you, when they do something about it, is to try to keep them at no electoral cost. Look, the measures you've explained about the Galician Union are cosmetics, superficials, and they don't have the necessary dimension to end the problem, because they don't go to the structural problems of housing. You assumed the social lease bonus, star measure, of what was executed last year 972,000 euros. Do you think that solves the housing problem in Galicia? And it's just that you have policies that are focused only on attacking when people are defeated or have very low incomes, and that's not how it is. It's just that the public rental housing park isn't just for those people who don't reach the minimum wage of three times, who have to be solemnly poor for them to have a home. No, no, no, no. They're a solution for these people, for a lot more than it's not enough and that goes beyond those limits and as a regular market element; the market regulator element means that a public housing park modulates housing prices, and that's what you don't want to do. You don't want to modulate the price of housing, because you'd harm banks, big promoters and voitre funds, and it's the ones that have been systematically benefiting. Yes, yes, no, it is. [[Murmurs.]] To whom did you favor your reform of the Law of Urban Rentals?, to whom did you favor? Who has favored that since 2004 you have blocked the application of the charge in the IBI to empty dwellings?, to whom have you favored, Mr. Castineira? To whom did the tax cuts favor the Socimis, who are already here, in Chamber, in Vigo, in the Coruña? The Voitre funds are already buying housing for rent, and they have allowances, which do not pay taxes, for profiting from the housing. Who favored the paralysis of the construction of public housing? Who favored the paralysis of your protected housing? Of course, you're very predictable, you came here and said, of course, it's the city hall's fault. No, look, you have an empty housing program, which was executed in 2017 at 10,499 euros of the 300,000 that I had planned; it mobilized sixteen homes. And you come here and still above you can't do self-criticism and say: we have to change something; for example, encourage housing not to be empty, like a tax, it can also be; but you don't, no; everything works well and the blame is for the governments of the Tide. In Marín, I think that ruling the People's Party, don't I?, I think that ruling the People's Party, and something will have to do with what Mrs. Pierres said. And I said Law 8/2012. 8/2012 was the first law in which you allowed the downgrade of the reservation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u217	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u218	...for protected housing. In short, the People's Party obviously defends those who defend, even if it is the cost of serious suffering, even if it is the cost of applying institutional violence against many people, yes, sir, institutional violence. [[Murmurs.]] There are many family and social dramas caused by their housing policies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u219	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u220	Many, many. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u221	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in linguistic matters
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u222	An amendment has been tabled by the EMEA Parliamentary Group. [[(G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mrs Ánxeles Cuña Bóveda and in the light of Rule 151.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, tabled the following amendment to this motion, Doc. # 47849 (10/MOC-000134).Amendment No 1, addition.You must add to the end of point 1, after "...not university of Galicia.", the following: "...and designs an educational proposal that promotes the use of Greek in all fields, without discrimination of any kind."Amendment #2, in addition.You must add to the end of point 2, after "...in equality with Spanish.", the following: "..., applying the same educational hourly load to the co-official languages."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u223	To formulate the motion, Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u224	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Before I started my intervention, I wanted to make a reference to a figure that is not a historical figure, it's a geometric transformation, which is called "homothecy." Homotecies are characterized by constant increase or decrease in distances. This is what happens to the People's Party with regard to the Government of Pedro Sánchez and the Government of Mariano Rajoy. For the People's Party, half a year is the same as seven; i.e., they amplify by fourteen when it comes to speaking about the Government of Sánchez, which is responsible, among other evils, for the deregulation of the electricity market; or they reduce by fourteen, to a fourteenth when it comes to Mr. Rajoy's responsibilities. And this keeps a certain connection with this motion that we present today, which is the result of the interpellation that was made in the past. So it's a crooked motion, it's an opportunistic motion, it's an outdated motion, it's a melancholy motion, it's an empty motion, it's a motion with political intent manifest and it's a motion that generates an artificial debate, because that's what the counselor said on March 12, that is, two weeks ago. However, the facts are—we say—persistent, they are those, and in September 2018 Mr. Pablo Casado said that one could not live with the endogamy that an autonomy would select teachers in his language, because that means supporting a model of indoctrination that goes against the future itself. And in February of this same year, of the year 2019, a little over a month ago, he made a statement that involves a whole range of political advancement, which was his famous law of languages. When he spoke of them, he said, "Coofficial languages are a wealth for the country -- it would only be lacking to deny it -- but they diminish the equality of opportunities among Spaniards. And I prefer a regulation in four areas: that of administrative calls, that of public employment offers, that of education and that of urban signage, all of them, particularly the latter, of the same relevance. With regard to public employment, Mr. Casado underlined that the mobility of public employees and equal opportunities between Spanish employees cannot be abused, so access to public service will be compulsory in Spanish, so that the co-official language may be considered a merit but not a requirement. And in Education, it will force the use of Spanish as a vehicle language, without which it means that another co-official language cannot be used on an equal basis. Frankly, this phrase gives you the idea: to use or use a language as a vehicle and not to diminish the equality of opportunity with another. It's quite frankly something that needs to be analyzed in depth. Finally, he said that there would be an obligation to label and signal the urban environment in Spanish, although you could double that information to offer it in a co-official language as well. This is logical if you do so, because, of course, when you go to Ourense and suddenly see Orense, or if you go to Orense and suddenly you see Ourense, you don't know what the devil on the road has to catch up to, that's obvious. Don't tell me if you're going to Sanxenxo or the island of Arousa, that's... let's say that or Google Maps solves it! But a week ago Mrs. Inés Arrimadas, to be no less and mark the runway to the People's Party in language, said, "The PP not only has always agreed with nationalists, it also continues to copy them. He made it demand the Greek as a mandatory requirement to be a teacher." This is not a problem in itself, a citizen leader said it wasn't a problem. The problem came later, when Mr. Feijóo saw himself obliged to justify that reality and said, "From the Chair they claim that the Galician model is the same as ten years ago, when Feijóo came to power." I mean, I didn't go, I found this like this, I don't know why they got here, but I wouldn't change it either. I mean, justifiably, don't argue that it has to be that way. And the president says that since 2016, of all the people who have passed the opposition, 97.5% didn't have to do the Welsh exam, and the remaining 2.5% passed the test, therefore, is, or seems, a procedure. The former is the respect that the People's Party has to the languages of the autonomous communities. We are told here that this does not affect Galicia, which is a regulation made for Catalonia. So I wonder: Is it safe to make a state law that affects only a part of the state? I mean, we're going to see a law of languages that in its additional provision fourth, fifth or decision-making will put something so that the articles don't know which will be of exclusive application in Catalonia, not Galicia; and in Galicia not because Mr. Feijóo's linguistic model is what we like. I think we should ask ourselves what may happen if the People's Party governs in the state. Frankly, I believe that there will be an unprecedented change in language in the democratic period. As I said when I asked the Counsellor, the linguistic reality of the People's Party does not make us particularly optimistic, because you are particularly sensitive to types of pressure related to this area. You thus published the famous Decree of Plurilingualism in Galicia's non-university teaching to give satisfaction to a certain collective to which I will not give more publicity or relevance to it than it already had at the time. That decree was corrected — as it could not be otherwise — by justice itself, by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, which made it clear that the Constitution only recognizes a sphere of election to parents, in the case of religious and moral formation, which implicitly, as it is logical, leaves out of the present possibility the language in education; the educational administration cannot put the vote a fundamental aspect like the language. And that decree of multilingualism led to great advances in linguistics. I mean, in the first five years of its implementation, the percentage of children who never speak German has increased by 18 points. Today, between the ages of 15 and 29, Spanish monolinguism rises 8 points. 74% of children and boys claim that they are always or mostly expressed in Spanish. A short time ago, the Galician Council of Culture published this report: Language and society in Galicia. Summary of the results: 1992-2016, which says: "Until 2010, the use of the Greek as a vehicle language of teaching has experienced a remarkable advance, and with Decree 124/2007—this terrorist decree that had to be repealed—the largest percentage declared to receive mostly teaching in Greek. The application of a new decree in 2010, I assumed a retreat in the presence of the English language, recanting it back to the 1990s." This is not said by this spokesman, nor by any member of Parliament, says an academic report. And it says, "We can conclude that the application of Decree 79/2010 has brought about a reversal in all areas analyzed." This is the reality of the famous decree of plurilingualism. In the interpellation that Mr. Counsellor was given, that devious, opportunistic, preventive, unupdated, melancholy, meaningless, with a manifest political intent, and which generates an artificial debate—I said it without breathing, which is worthy!—we asked him whether the Government of Greece was acceptable to those statements; if he thought that the existing conditions on knowledge of the Greek language in the systems of access to the teaching function were indispensable; if the Government of Greece considers that these conditions pose a risk of indoctrinating the school population; and if he thought to take some initiative to defend the need for the teaching of this autonomous community to know the language of Greek. Perhaps the author of those claims should review his vigency, especially in view of what is happening in the last few days in this fratricidal campaign or electoral pre-campaign in the world of the right political: right, half right, extreme right, half-pensionists or what are ending up being each of the three on board in that political spectrum. And since reference has been made to it today, the Galician Autonomy Statute determines the full competence of the Autonomous Community in linguistic matters, and it is not a minor issue. We exercise and defend that full competition and do not forget access to the Greek civil service. I insist, the civil service of Galicia, not the public service of Castile-Leon, neither of Andalusia, nor of Catalonia, ours. So the text we propose for the motion you know. We call for the derogation of Decree 79/2010; to ensure that at the end of the educational stages the student knows in his or her oral and written levels the Welsh language on equal terms with Spanish; to maintain the requirement for the accreditation of the knowledge of the Greek language in the processes of entry for the teacher; and that access to positions of the General Autonomous Administration of Galicia should be maintained as a requirement—requisite, not merit—the accreditation of knowledge of the Greek language. We understand that practically the full text of this motion will be adopted unanimously by this House. In other cases, we'll find ourselves on a certain uncertain stage. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u225	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u226	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all and to all. If this replica had a title, it would be called "A question of Pergroullo." Of course, I'm going to refer also to the plenary on March 12th and 13th. Obviously, his leader Pablo Casado — as Mr Álvarez has well said — leaves the flag of cuts to official languages, different, of course, from Spanish in public. He intends to prohibit Greek as a requirement for access to the Greek civil service through this so-called law of languages he intends to include in his election program on April 28, ensuring that people who opt for a position in the administration ignore English, Catalan and Basque where they are official languages, obliging the right of citizenship to be attended and understood in any official language. It's not just an involution, Mr. Álvarez, it's an assault on the fundamental right of our citizenship. It is good to refresh the answers given by both Mr. Fesóo and Mr. Counsellor, as eloquently as he was, to Mr. Álvarez's initiative, to the interpellation. What answer? He avoided rejecting the marriage plan. Why? Because he said it was a law that didn't exist yet. But if you have enough in Congress that law will exist, or are you afraid to become a minority and have 6 or 14 Members, for example? If you win the election, this can go ahead. Nor did he object to either Mrs. Pontón or the spokesman of the Socialist Party. He escaped, scurried, he didn't give up. He attacked, yes, and surfed the recentralizing waves of his party's leadership, stating in the media, for example, that such a proposal would not be directed to Galicia. It's a coat of hair! He also denied the broad list of legislation, national, state, international agreements, beginning with the Law of Linguistic Standardization, the General Plan of Standardization, the Universal Declaration of Linguistic Rights, the European Charter of Minority Languages, did not listen to the Royal Galician Academy, did not listen to the Galician Council of Culture, universities, the special rapporteur for the minorities of the United Nations for human rights. If that plan, if Mr. Casado's plan were to be applied, it would become prohibited in the administration's access tests, including the Union, it would not be intended — as it has been said — that access to public service is necessarily carried out in Spanish, and the other language would be regarded as nothing but a merit. Mr. Alberto Núñez knows very well that this law would be in direct conflict with article 5 of the Autonomy Statute, that you will all know very well. What was the Mr. Counsellor's answer? A very nice, very sympathetic answer. As was said here, he spoke of these devious, opportunistic, out-of-date, melancholy initiatives, too, poor, and with political intent manifest. He also spoke of artificial debate and fictitious speech. He answered Pergrullo to a question he considered to be Pergrullo. But that's not so. Besides, he's very modest, Mr. Counselor and he has no grandmother. It's a model of real success. If it wasn't so serious and so serious, and if it wasn't paying attention to our rights, we'd say, "It's plenty of messs, ditches, bullies, chameleon postures!" Their arguments are very false, the harmonic balance of what they say is not true, they tend to Spanish monolingualism, they disguise their true intentions, and their model is regressive. How can they say, and stay so wide and so wide, that their language policy reflected in their electoral program in the years 2009, 2012 and 2016 was the result of a process of listening to society? Don't make us communicate with mill wheels, please! It's a recurring theme, but it's not a Pergroullo theme. The Constitution and the Statute guarantee officiality and the right to use Greek in all administrations of Galicia, but the Councillor of Culture believes that it is only intended to create confrontation. False, absolutely false! We support, however, this proposal and believe it is essential to repeal the decree, Decree 79/2010, for its negative impact. Because we believe that PP is responsible for the decline in the use of our language and because it's a plan that's not clear, it's not significant, it's not shared, it's not identity. We also defend the Welshman, who has to stand on equality with the Spanish, and we are far, far away, despite the comments they have seen here, that the competence of the student in Greek is similar to that of the Spanish. In addition, the implementation of multilingual centres resulted in the exclusion and marginalization of our language as a vehicle language, without any progress in the knowledge of foreign languages or in gambling...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u227	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u228	...—now finished—by inclusive plurilingualism. So we support this initiative because defending our language is to defend democracy, human rights and our culture is not a matter of Pergroullo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u229	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. We now greet the 5th and 6th primary students from the Ría de Vigo Plurilingual Center in Oia, and also their assistants, the teachers. Welcome to Parliament. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. Quiet. And now you have the floor, for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u230	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Welcome and welcome to the student of this school who accompanies us today in the evening. One question, before beginning with the structure of the intervention which I had prepared. Look at making such references to the language rights that gleam the Spanish Constitution! Because Article 3 of the Constitution is precisely what supports the supremacy of Spanish and that is what led to the unconstitutional declaration of a part of Article 1 of the Law on Linguistic Standardization, which established the duty of the Greeks and the Greeks to know our own language. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Judgment 8486 of the Constitutional Court. Leaving this here, aside, let me read to you something in perfect Spanish so that you can understand the beloved leader, Mr. Pablo Casado: "This gentleman must be reminded of this lord..."—this gentleman is the president of nothing but the state, for now, independent and sovereign of Mexico, Mr. López Obrador—"that the Spaniards went there and ended with the power of tribes killing with cruelty and healing their neighbours. And that is why a few, helped by those who were persecuted and enslaved, conquered and civilized that land." That's how the People's Party explains the colonization of America. And they will remind us of this phrase — although it may seem to them that it is in a very distant latitude to which we are talking in this debate, they will seem very distant — another badge minister of the People's Party, who said, "the goal is..." — in reference to LOMCE — "...spanishing Catalan children." These are the people who are asked to respect the language rights of the people and who are also asked to guarantee and respect the cultural and linguistic rights of our country. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I think the two sentences I just read summarize above all an absolutely disgusting supremacism. [[Applause]] The reports — some have already referred here in previous interventions to socio-linguistic reports and studies — all, absolutely everyone, from the Council of Europe to the brink of the European Charter of Regional and Diminished Languages, the reports of the Galician Academy, the reports of the Council of Culture, the reports of the Galego Institute of Statistics or the Bureau for Linguistic Standardization, point out that the only linguistic discrimination in our country is the one that people who are free and sovereignly want to live their lives in Galicia, people who want to live their lives in full and freely in Galicia. [[Applause]] The obligation laid down in the Greek legislation to believe the knowledge of the language of this country by people who want to enter the public service and work in the public service is the minimum basic condition to be able to guarantee the linguistic rights of those people who want to live free and fully in our language. And so it's a question of fundamental rights that reach the population as a whole, whether or not it's glyphoning, whether or not users, users or speakers of the Greek language in their usual lives. What is proposed with that Law on Languages, which is also that the name already echoes the smell of naphthaline — it was said in the morning — and an absolutely supremacist and reactionary thought, is a flagrant violation of linguistic rights. It's a direct attack on the linguistic rights of the Greeks and the Greeks. A proposal that is not of Mr. Married, is a proposal by the People's Party, in the same way that was LOMCE, in the same way as the decree in 2010 and all the steps back that have already been taken here in Galicia in the last ten years in the field of linguistic policy. [[Applause]] The only evidence is an absolute hatred of diversity and an absolutely ethnocentric vision of reality. Since the BNG we will support the motion presented today by the Socialist Party without amendments or conditions. It is an agreement, without disrespecting it in any case, which we understand of minimums in the defence of the linguistic rights and national rights of this country. But above all, I think it's an agreement around a reality, and it's that we're Greeks, we're Greeks, we have a language of our own, and no person or five hundred kilometers away, by the very president of the Government who pretends to be of the Spanish State, can deny us the most elementary rights by our condition as Greeks and Greeks. [[Applause]] For my part, nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u231	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u232	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Good afternoon, too, to the children who accompany us today in Parliament. Mr. Álvarez, you would finish your speech by saying that if this motion was not approved, we would find ourselves in an uncertain setting. I'm going to tell you one thing: we'll find ourselves on an uncertain stage if we suddenly decide to repeal the Multilingualism Decree. Because you know that derogating a decree that previously repealed existing regulations would lead us to a scenario where we would have no regulation on this particular, which, of course, would be an uncertain scenario. I say this because I point out a contradiction in your argument, that there are more, there are quite a few more. Look, I honestly don't understand. Here they have now come to grapple with terms such as hatred, ethnocentrism, supremacy — Mrs Rodil said. I don't know why they're constantly trying to talk about what unites us using terms of confrontation and separation. For us the language is an element of union and cordiality. You try, over and over again, to convert the language into a confrontational element. [[Applause]] But, look, the problem with this is that at the end of the day, it's not what the Galego Nationalist Block says, it's not what the Socialist Party says, it's not what the Popular Parliamentary Group says, it's not what the People's Parliamentary Group says, but, ultimately, who has to mark the path that we follow in our policies is the Galician society, it's Galician citizenship free of the Greek people. Those are the ones who mark and decide which policies must follow a responsible government. You're obvious, once again, a question. They know perfectly well that the language policy of the Government of Galicia... is more, Mrs. Cuña made a reference to that the policy existing in the electoral program of the Government of Galicia, of the People's Party that today rules in Galicia, had not been, or that you didn't think it had been, drawn up listening to society. I'm telling you more, it's not only been drawn up listening to society, it's been referred to by the Greek society, since this decree is in force than you speak, on two occasions, and it's also increasing citizen support for this linguistic policy. So, as you will understand, we are a parliamentary group that is not here to defend the theses of those who want to confront us with what unites us. [[Applause]] We are here to work in the service of Greek citizenship, which — I say — every time we consult it tells us that in the field of linguistic policy something we are doing well. Look, in the end, there's also data to be put on the table and you obviously don't put it because it's data that leaves your argument in a very weak and very delicate position. If the decree is really as negative as you want to paint, why do the data tell us that we've been at the moment with the greatest degree of knowledge of the Greek language since the measurement is made? I say more, you intend, over and over again, to establish a comparative evening with other autonomous communities. The counsellor told him in the last interpellation of the plenary. We are proud that the language model of Galicia is a reference to the rest of the autonomys with its own language. In fact, you review the data from any other autonomous community with its own language, the level of use of that language and the level of knowledge of that language in those communities, and you probably realize — if you don't want to put on a veil that doesn't let you see the reality — that the Greek linguistic policy is correct and a model and a reference for the rest of the autonomous communities. It would like the rest of the autonomous communities with their own language to have a domain of their own language as it is in Galicia by all citizenship! [[Applause]] And with use! You often criticise the subject of use, but you know perfectly well that official data say that the Greek language is the co-official language of an autonomous community most widely used in your territory. 72% of the population claims to speak normally and usually the English language. So let's go back to what we said at first, of course it's an artificial debate! You intend to move an image and a political debate that does not exist in citizenship. Something they see with absolute normality you want to make it a problem. We are once again — and if we were talking earlier on other motions — in the context of campaign, of course, and it seems that all of a sudden the opposition in the Galician Parliament wanted to take over the doberman, and in this case they pulled out the linguistic doberman. So they refer to statements, they settle on the ground of hypothesis, they talk about regulations that don't exist, and there's nothing on the table about it, but that you already give as right, and then they want to transfer that image of confusion to the citizenry to try to tell him, "Hey, what danger..." as you said......that they want to end up with the Welshman! Man, let's be serious! Honestly, let's be serious! Fortunately — and I think I will no longer insist on this issue — Greek society has shown over the years that it is an intelligent society, a responsible society, a society that defends its identity, its culture and its language. And you know perfectly well that the best way in which this defense of society, of identity and of the Greek language is by depositing the vote for the People's Party, as they do over and over again every time they are asked. Because we, like them, are in defense of our culture, our identity and our language. [[Applause]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u233	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Author of the motion, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Fernández Gil, first of all, it is true that the Greeks and the Greeks have deposited the vote for the People's Party, but it seems to me that they have also deposited it for someone other parliamentary group, because, of course, I am not touched by the Minutes of the House. That's for starters. Look, it's obvious that you're extremely uncomfortable with Mr. Married's statements. It's so obvious that you didn't make a single reference, rather than at the end, to a hypothetical situation that would happen, the rest has been speaking all the time of the decree, for something will be... yes, yes, of course, that's one of the four points that has the motion, but you spoke all the time of the decree. [[Mr. Fernández Gil pronounces words that are not perceived.]] But, look, with regard to the derogation from the famous decree in question, man!, it seems to me frankly that before the House of the Autonomic Parliament of Galicia I have to explain that the derogation assumes that this decree will be changed by another, not that we are left without regulation. So far I think we're all here! Obviously, when we talk about a derogation, we're talking about publishing a separate decree that derogates it. [[Murmurs.]] But, well, if we have to do this, from now on, before I come to any intervention, I'll go through a fruit shop and buy apples to explain it or, in your mistake, I'll make a scheme to understand us all. [[Murmurs.]] Above all, not because you're not able to understand, but because maybe I don't explain well and require some kind of instrumental support to make my statements well known. [[Murmurs.]] Our motion is, of course, a proactive issue with regard to points 2, 3 and 4. And as Mrs. Rodil said, it's so minimal that we ask what's in the law today, nothing else. That's why I'm going to facilitate point-by-point voting, separated from point-by-point one on the one hand and point-by-point 2, 3 and 4 on the other, so you can say. Because I suppose they're going to oppose maintenance or derogation or the term they want to use — I think we understand — of the 2010 Decree, but it's also for them to show up politically in the Galician Parliament as to whether to ensure, if necessary, the current conditions in the legislation. That's just it. I'm going to give you the opportunity to tell you whether you want to guarantee and maintain that normative framework or whether, on the other hand, it seems unnecessary to them because, as it is already in the law and the laws are something we all know that after the tables of Moses they are immutable and cannot be changed, we're not going to have to worry because they're going to follow the divines. The reality is that. So, given that we're talking, do you!, of a Royal Decree of the Year 2007 that Rajoy's Government has not changed at any time to establish the conditions for access to the teaching civil service. We're talking about the Law of Linguistic Standardization as to the knowledge of Greek by students, and so I think you can vote on this one. Now, if you don't dare differ from the doctrine of Mr. Casado, because you vote against it and you're done. There's no need to keep this regulation because we prefer another model. It's that simple. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u235	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. At the end of the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the motions. Close the doors, please. Let's start with the first one, which is that of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs. Presas Berganginos. I was pending a transaction. Can you read it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u236	We shall facilitate the voting by points. So we would vote points 1, 3 and 4, point 2 and 5, and point 6. And in point 6 it would be added "after the Welsh industry", "and to the other consumers." He's talking to the voices of the other groups.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u237	Thank you. So we started by voting points 1, 3 and 4 of this motion. We vote. Vote of points 1, 3 and 4 of the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantiños, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece and the demands to be made by the central government in relation to the sector of the Galician electrointensive industry and the temporal employment regulation file submitted by Ferroatlántica. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. These three points are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u238	We now vote points 2 and 5. We vote. Vote of points 2 and 5 of the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantiños, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece and the demands to be made by the central government in relation to the sector of the Galician electrointensive industry and the temporal employment regulation file submitted by Ferroatlántica. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. These two points were therefore adopted by 70 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u239	Finally, we voted on point 6 with the addendum you reported to Mrs. Presas. We vote. Vote for the transactioned text of point 6 of the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantiños, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece and the demands to be made by the central government in relation to the sector of the Galician electrointensive industry and the temporal employment regulation file submitted by Ferroatlántica. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 57; abstentions, 13. The voting is positive. This point was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u240	We now vote on the motion from the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Mr Sánchez. A transaction with the Socialist Parliamentary Group is pending. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Was the amendment adding or what it was? Do you accept it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u241	Point 2 is added.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u242	Is it addendum? If it's added, it's done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u243	There's one that replaces point 2 and there's an add-on point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u244	Okay. Do you understand? Perfect. [[Murmurs.]] We vote. We need to know what is being voted on. No, no, it's good to know everyone. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm the first one to be clear. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. in Marea, at the initiative of D. Antón Sánchez García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of protected housing. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u245	One vote is missing. Isn't he anybody? He didn't want to vote. Okay, that's it. She's refused. [[Murmurs.]] No, no, it's like that. [[Murmurs.]] Exactly. But I communicate it because all of this then becomes public. That's it. I'm not saying it for anything else. [[Murmurs.]] Well, we now vote for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia on the initiative of Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez. [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez asks for the floor.]] Sorry, about the Marea amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u246	I apologize for not manifesting myself on the amendment. We would accept point 1, which adds a sentence to point 1 of our motion, and we do not accept point 2, which would add a sentence to point 2. On the other hand, as I have already pointed out, we are asking for a separate vote. Point 1 on one side and points 2, 3 and 4 on the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u247	Thank you. So we voted, first of all, point 1 with the addendum just related to us. We vote. Vote for the transactioned text of point 1 of the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in linguistic matters. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This point is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u248	And now we are voting on points 2, 3 and 4. We vote. Text vote on points 2, 3 and 4 of the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in linguistic matters. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. These points were therefore adopted by seventy votes in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u249	The vote on these motions has been closed. Open the doors, please. We continue with point 5 of the agenda, non-legislative proposals. In this case, with the accumulated debate of the non-law proposals number 1 and number 6, one of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantinos, and another of the Popular Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Da Marta Nóvoa Iglesias. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Galician Union in relation to the electrointensive industry G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Marta Nóvoa Churches and fourteen other Members, on the demand to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the establishment of a stable energy framework and a competitive electric price consensual with the electrointensive sector, as well as the action to be taken on the presentation of a temporary employment regulation file in the Ferroatlantic company
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u250	The Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego Galego has a self-amendment and an amendment of the Popular, Socialist and En Marea parliamentary groups. The People's Parliamentary Group also has a self-amendment and a self-amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Galician Nationalist Bloc and En Marea. EMENDES
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u251	We therefore start the debate. First of all, you have the floor, for the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u252	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon again. Let's see if we have a little bit more luck with this initiative, because the People's Party presents, accumulated to this initiative, one that originally talked about Ferroatlantic and they just voted against studying the reversal of the Xallas River's power stations, because as we also amend with that point their initiative, I trust they have a chance to reconsider that. More to the point, since the Galician Nationalist Block, we have been presenting this initiative because we are very concerned about the industrial crisis in our country, in the same line as we indicated in the previous shift. Worried because in the last year, still increasing the total volume of busy and busy, we see how our country, in the last year, has lost more than 3,500 people in the industry. We are concerned that we are moving towards an economy based on third-partyization and because the electro-intensive industry is in a major crisis. The situation of companies like the ones we talked about earlier, like Ferroatlantics or how we're going to focus now, which is the situation of Alcoa, shows a worrying situation, which has just been added to last week the threat of multinational Alcoa on its production centres in San Cibrao, in Marine Lucense, threatening to close one of them, which generates an important alarm, seeing also the situation of the Crown and the situation of Avilés, which are still far from having a solution above the table, and the date of July 1 is getting closer and closer. So there's an important concern throughout the country that has now reached Marine Lucense, because of the importance of this company in this part of the country. Because if on the aluminium plant, in Cervo, we're talking about the use of more than 500 people, the aluminium plant makes the industrial complex more than 1,200, and if we're still adding everything that has to do with the auxiliary industry that depends exclusively on Alcoa-San Cibrao, we can talk about more than 2,000 people. More than 2,000 people who are currently concerned, who are looking at the institutions, also for this Parliament to be up to, and to whom we want to convey all our commitment and solidarity. This situation — as I say — shows, from our point of view, the absolute failure of the model of pauses and the industrial model, both of what the People's Party has designed in central government and of that model which has not dared to substantially modify the Socialist Party with courage, and it is also a responsibility that is not exempt from the Council of Galicia, because of its responsibilities in economic and industrial planning and also because of its responsibility not to listen. Only with regard to legislation, by this parliamentary group, but also by others, have proposals been made again and again on this sector of our economy. We have proposed again and again in this Parliament, when Mr Rajoy made changes in the times and forms of pauses. Again and again we proposed that there should be an assessment of what that would mean for Galicia, and you voted against it. We ask again and again that there should be a plural table, attended by all sectors, to analyze what was going on, and you voted against it again and again. They came a little to the river, forming one with the employer, but they still miss the social part. We know that the majority union in the country gives them some allergy, but it's also the majority union in the electrointensive sector, and the minimum should be sitting with them talking about the proposals they've already submitted in writing months ago. They also have allergy to the demands of the works councils. Today we incorporate, through that self-amendment, the concrete claims that this same Monday moved the workers and workers of Alcoa-San Cibrao to my comrades Pontón and Rodil. And we also present, in terms of legislation, two proposals for laws amending the electrical sector, two!, one of them with a wide development of what should be the path of transition from energy to electrointensive companies. And you, even having threats about Alcoa and Meirama on the table, voted against, because it's easier to complain and take advantage of the fact that right now in central government there is another political force, than to sit in dialogue and have a country strategy. We tell them, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that it is enough! It is time to sit down and have some responsibility, regardless of who rules or no longer governs in Madrid, ladies and gentlemen, because this historic moment requires seriousness. And since BNG has had no ties and we're not married to anyone, we're making the same criticism and with the same bluntness who's in Madrid. That's why we insist today that it's absolutely unacceptable, we have to say, and it's also incorporated into our initiative, which is happening with the electrointensive status. It is unacceptable that week by week had been delaying the forecast of its deadline. It's obscene to be told that it will be passed two days before the general election. And it's a coat of hair the draft we saw last week. But that draft also returns to us in the mirror what the Galician Union represents, it also returns to us in the mirror the null political weight Mr. Núñez Feijóo has in state politics, because the Galician Union has submitted allegations and has been practically ignored. So our criticism goes to the state, but it also goes to Galician Union for its role. And we have already tabled allegations in my previous speech on this, because we believe that this status is insufficient; the price reduction is absolutely ridiculous; and it does not include compensation for Galicia either, although we are net producers. Especially because it has no guarantees of employment and productive activity, and if anything we should have learned from this failure, it is precisely that there is a need to maintain employment and productive activity, because what can't be to make a collective effort that comes out of our pockets to make industries rich and then close and leave misery. What seems indecent to us is that, above all, you are not seriously valuing that Galicia must have a posture of its own. So also in our allegations we incorporate the demand for bilateral negotiation, because we will not tire of repeating that it would have been much better for Galicia if Mr. Núñez Feijóo had abandoned his centralism to negotiate this issue directly with the State. I bring here a headline this same week that I think should shame anyone and make them think about these issues that say the problem is the price of electricity, but then they vote against the proposals to crush it. And this headline says, "The new downturn in industrial light, five times less than the Basque Country has achieved with the governments of Rajoy and Sanchez." Five times less: EUR 4.2 per megawatt compared to the 23 euros obtained in other political negotiations. So we believe from the BNG that there are more than enough reasons for this situation to be corrected, because while we see other governments captain that kind of negotiation and defense of their country -- comparisons are hateful -- the fact is that the Government of the People's Party leaves enough to wish, and the truth is that we are now looking back: count back in Alcoa-Coruña, count back in Ferroatlantica and count back, surely, also in San Cibrao, if we don't put political solutions to political problems. So today we have come to claim here a number of measures that we understand urgent, necessary and realistic at all times. First of all, that the Galician Union and this Parliament call for the withdrawal of the ERUs from any of these production centres. Let us say loud and clear that we do not admit blackmails to Alcoa-Coruña or to Alcoa-San Cibrao. It also consists, at last, of that work table that has eternally been promised in institutional declarations and non-law proposals, violating the commitment that the Government should have to this parliament, and that it is also incorporated in the social part without exclusions, because it is not the time to be promoting exclusions. If they are so convinced that, indeed, the problem is the price of light, we also argue that the current pox system must be changed by an industrial and predictable tariff system. And we also don't give up the debate that because of our producer status we should have an extra bonus. Moreover, as it shows that today we have been ready to reach consensus, we have literally incorporated into our proposal the initiatives that the Alcoa-San Cibrao Business Committee was moving us this week. We want Galician Union to assume them as its own. The deadline for the incorporation of claims to the Intensive Statute ends tomorrow, therefore, there is time, there are possibilities, if there is political will, that the Council of Galicia exercises Government of the country, exercises the role it is claiming right now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u253	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u254	...the crisis of San Cibrao and assumes as its own these claims that all of his lordships already have in writing, and that, therefore, instead of coming here seeking auto-applauses to the allegations already failed by the Board of Galicia, if he comes here to defend himself with the workers who want an alternative and who already love it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u255	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. Mr Tellado Filgueira has the floor on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u256	Thank you, Mr. President. These are the allegations to the Statute of the Intensive Industry presented yesterday by the German Government to deal with this problem. So you can't ask anyone to do what you did yesterday, because Junta did her homework and Junta defended the intensive industry from the very first moment, and what's more important, the jobs that depend on those industries. The first time we brought to this Parliament an initiative on the situation of Alcoa, until November 2018, just a couple of weeks after the announcement of its closure, we expressed a number of questions from the People's Parliamentary Group. The fundamental: our concern for jobs, our concern for jobs. We also express our praise to all administrations for their willingness to engage in dialogue. Beyond political colors, we managed to board the same boat to Galician Junta, the Principality of Asturias, the Town Hall of Coruña and the Town Hall of Avilés. But we also warned at that time that we were albiscating some passivity by the central government, that it could produce an effect of infection in other intensive industries. Four months later, the situation not only improved but, of course, worse. We're still worried, and more than ever, about the situation in which thousands of jobs are left that depend on the intensive industry. As we have just said, the Socialist Government's wish is leaving in limbo our entire industry. We are the victims of a president -- we said -- who works in plane mode, Falcon mode, who doesn't face any problems, who overrides all of them, and who hopes that they will either pass through time or solve them another. That's the ink Mr. Sánchez. And in case this was little, cooperation between administrations was clearly insufficient, because it's hard to cooperate with someone who doesn't want to do it. The central government, the one who pretends to be in dialogue with those who violate the law, that government is what I didn't want to hear for a minute the proposals that the Galician board had to make in coordination with the sector and in coordination with the workers. In this way, Pedro Sánchez has become the greatest danger facing the Spanish industry today and, by extension, the Greek industry. Pedro Sánchez, with his diesel and his apocalyptic headlines about the end of the combustion engines, had a negative impact on the automotive market. There's the download of orders; one sector of which depends 20,000 direct jobs in our community. Pedro Sánchez, with his unwarranted delays in the orders of execution of the F-110 frigates, is compromising a project that secures workload for the railway ship, over the next ten years, for 7,000 workers in the Welsh naval industry. Pedro Sánchez, with the intransigent and fundamentalist proposal of the Minister of Ecological Transition, has already been able to put a date of closure to the thermal power plant in Meirama and has already announced that his will is that the thermal power plant of the bridges closes fifteen years before Community legislation would allow it. Pedro Sánchez, with his abandonment to Ence, questioned the continuity of the plant in Pontevedra and, with it, the continuity of the 5,000 jobs in the forest sector, as well as...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u257	Quiet, Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u258	...of the 80,000 families who earn income from the sale of wood, 300 million euros each year. That's Pedro Sánchez. I suppose everyone who's been here for years and years defending that they're closing companies will be very happy, that's your president! Of course, it's not the president we want for Spain because it's not the president who, of course, benefits the whole of Spain. We are convinced that this is the real problem we are facing from here on. The inoperation of this government will lead Galicia and its industry to a limited situation if we do not remedy it. And it's very difficult to do more harm in so little time, very difficult. Not that Sánchez cannot solve a single problem, is that the problem of this country is called Pedro Sánchez, that's the reality! We bring this initiative that insists on the need to address this problem and put real solutions on the table. We want facts, because time is running out for the thousands of families. The Greeks that depend on the electrointensive industry are not thinking on April 28th, that's why the socialists are already thinking about the future of their jobs, which cannot be delayed until April 26th, which is the most convenient date for Mr. Pedro Sánchez and those who defend him here in Galicia. By the way, it seems like it's not just the socialists, it's also the potential partners. As you know, the Board held a meeting last week with the Greek electrointensive companies to validate the allegations that have been submitted to the draft of the Statute submitted by the Government, which instead of approaching solutions generates more uncertainty and more instability. We don't say it, the workers say it. It's the workers themselves who warn of the risks of this status that solves absolutely nothing. A statute that endangers not only the future of Alcoa in the Coruña, but also the future of the San Cibrao plant, as well as the 5,000 jobs linked to the entire Greek intensive industry. At the time of your presentation, we regret that no measures are taken in the draft Statute to reduce taxes, to cover taxation, and no longer meet the vast majority of the proposals that we have previously put forward from Galicia. Nothing is said in that statute to create the figure of the electro-intensive consumer, hyper-electro-intensive, or to reduce by 90% the rates of access in the cost-of-transport part; no guarantees are offered to apply CO2 compensation; and the exemptions from non-interruptibility payments and the proposed capacity are clearly insufficient. The fact is that Falcon must be very soundproofed because the president doesn't listen to anyone: he doesn't listen to the German Government, he doesn't even listen to the Principality of Asturias, governed by the Socialist Party, he doesn't listen to the workers, he doesn't listen to the unions. Very soundproofed must be Falcon! The energy transition cannot cause Galicia's industrial disconnection. The lack of government decisions can trigger dramatic situations for the German industrial sector, threatening 10,000 jobs in these companies alone. The Government has to explain once and for all why it does not regulate measures which are being implemented in other countries of the European Union, and which would allow Greek electrointensive companies to be more competitive, with a stable electric price over the next five years. Every government decision is a step back in the future of Alcoa, in the future of Ferroatlantics and the entire electro-intensive industry. His improvisation and lack of criteria all he's generating is uncertainty. And what's even more serious, is not offered any solution; because the problem will never be what offers solutions. One step back is that the Spanish Electric Network and the Government are not able to agree and have made a unique criterion on Alcoa plants in Coruña and Avilés to be able to participate in the interruptability post of the second half of the year. And one step back is that the Minister of Economy ensures that the proposed Statute is the top one they are willing to reach. That status is insufficient, it won't solve the problem that's raised, the problem that's on the table. So what we want is for the Government to rectify and, in the specific case of the Statute, this time to take into account the allegations that have been made to it and that are consensual. In this way of acting, the Government rather than looking for solutions seems to be making electoral calculations. What you've been doing for eight months, that's reality. Electoral calculations with Alcoa workers: immoral, indecent, unacceptable. We are convinced that the problem of Alcoa in Coruña and Avilés has already spread to other companies, to other industries. From now on, to the San Cibrao plant and the Ferroatlantic plant, with a risk of infection that can reach the rest of the Galician electrointensive industry and thousands of families in our community. I'm done. In just eight months as president, Pedro Sánchez visited twenty countries, visited sixteen autonomous communities, went to a concert and a wedding of his brother-in-law on an official plane, but he didn't have a minute to visit as president of the Government of Spain our community, Galicia. He only came as a candidate. He came to ask but he didn't give. That's the reality of socialism with which we are now. And he lied to Galicia. [[Applause]] Not only did he ask instead of giving, but he also came to Galicia to lie in the face of the Alcoa workers who manifested themselves at the door of the rally, telling them that all their problems were already solved. That's what Mr. Pedro Sánchez said. But that strategy of the new PSdEG-PSOE with its secretary general and its government delegate the head, the strategy of confusion, the strategy of lies, to put Peter's interests above Spain's interests, of course, will not count on our collaboration. We have a clear, clear initiative: the defence of amendments to the Statute of the Intensive Industry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u259	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u260	Defend Galician interests. Defend workers' interests. And in this House you're either standing with Peter or with the German workers. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u261	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u262	Ladies and gentlemen, the surveys must certainly go very badly for the People's Party, very badly!, listening to the obsessive intervention of the People's Party's spokesman with Pedro Sánchez. I recommend some kind of Freudian analysis because, if not, it turns out to be inexplicable. I think they must go very wrong. [[Applause]] Look, I said it the first time they talked about this: much better in the government Falcon than in a boat with a drug dealer. Much better! [[Applause]] Much better! And every time you talk about Falcon in this Parliament, this Member is going to talk about this picture that is outrageous to Galicia. Every time they talk about Falcon. [[Murmurs.]] If you bother them, there you are! The truth is, Mr. Tellado...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u263	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u264	I hope, because his intervention was the one that went and I was quiet. Yes, yes, the ship of a drug dealer who everyone in Galicia knew was a drug dealer, they liked it or not. I know you're upset, but as he says, the Football Club's Pontevedra, it's gotta be rusty! [[Applause]] Mr. Tellado said he thinks on April 28th. Look at April 28th, only you thought. Do you know who you didn't think about? In Ferroatlantic workers. He thought about the election campaign of the People's Party, and it's very good that he does. But say you come here to conduct an election campaign, you come here to shoot with the king's powder and ask the Government of Pedro Sánchez what they were unable to ask the Government of Mariano Rajoy to say that in seven years. [[Applause]] Say that!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u265	Quiet, Mr. Trenor. Quiet. Quiet, quiet. Mr. Trenor, be quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u266	Something about the environment, I guess. I'm saying why I'm going to say the environment... well, I'm pretty nice. [[Laughter]] Of course, compared with you, I think a lot.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u267	Not dialogue with everyone. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u268	She told me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u269	No, but not dialogue with everyone because, if not, you know what this is like. You're a veteran, and you know this is how it goes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u270	The Minister of Energy Transition has done some very important things, Mr. Tellado. It ended with the over-remuneration of certain technologies, hydraulics and nuclear, it was thought of in its energy transition — which, by the way, was providing some friends and funding from the People's Party. You have stated that you will review and have started the process — please! — of reviewing the payments by capacity and reducing the percentage that represents the term of power. [[Murmurs.]] And you know why he had to do that? Because we know the heritage of the People's Party in energy terms.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u271	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u272	An absolute alienation of the objectives of combating climate change both of the European Union and of the United Nations organization. A brutal attack on renewable energies, which meant loss of position in the technological leadership that Spain had: EUR 4,300 million of claims in international courts by investors in renewables. An increase in the price of energy for families and businesses and, yes, increasing benefits for large electricity. This is the balance of Mr. Rajoy and the Soria and Christmas ministers as energy ministers. This is the balance, they like it or they don't like it, they're upset or they don't. Tell us the stories you want to tell us, this is the balance. And they miss the truth so much... I am not going to draw the previous figure from the Association of Large Consumer Companies itself, but the difference between Spain and Germany in terms of the average price and the daily market — I repeat, the Association of Large Energy Consumer Companies — fell from 18 euros in 2015 to 11 euros in 2019, they like it or not, and that means we're going the right way. What are the things to do? Of course, but, of course, that process of demonization, and that absolutely electoral process of coming here to blame practically for the Arab-Israeli war Mr. Pedro Sanchez doesn't buy it from anyone. And that's how your surveys go! [[Applause]] So go the polls, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party! Look, I said it when we were talking about Ferroatlantics and I repeat it by talking about Alcoa: all support for the workers, but let's consider one thing, huh, what we subsidize the energy of the electrointensives means that either the state pays directly, or we pay the consumers, and that means we pay all the citizens. It would be nice if they said so too. It would be nice if they said so too! I'd like to hear it from you. Above all, I would like to hear you now that Mr. Casado repeats that he will radically lower taxes in this country. What did they cut? Tell us about it. Why don't you talk to us about it? That's election campaign too! Tell us about that, tell us that they're going to cut down taxes, and it doesn't contain that absolutely non-existent milonga in empirical terms that by lowering tax rates, or tax rates, it increases the collection because it increases economic activity. They know it's not true, and they know that they're going to do what they've started in Andalusia by ruling with citizens and with the far right, who also forget to count it. With the extreme right! with the votes of the extreme right! [[Applause]] See if it's going to be that the vows of the Catalan independenceists were cursed for the Government of Spain and the votes of the Fascists of VOX are a blessing for the Government of Andalusia. See if they want to sell us that! [[Applause]] Because if they want to sell it, it's not that we don't buy it from them, it's that people won't buy it, because people are smarter than you think, and so the polls go! And look, I remember an absolutely despicable phrase — and I say despicable with full consciousness of what it means — of the Minister Montoro, who is so Spanishist he too, who said: "Let Spain fall, we will raise it already!" I'm sure they remember her. I think that and that of Mrs Fabra, "Let the unemployed fuck up!They are part of the enthusiasm of the People's Party's commitment to the needs of this country and its citizens. I'm sure you share this appreciation with me. Mr. Feijóo, on the subject of Alcoa, is doing an absolutely detestable job. He's textually saying, "Electro-Intensive status makes it impossible to sell the Alcoa plant in Coruña, while there are eight groups interested in its possible purchase." Who wants to benefit? The Alcoa workers or the People's Party? Who wants to benefit by saying this? There's an open query process... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u273	Quiet, quiet. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u274	...and Mr Feijóo and the Galician Union have all the legitimacy to present the allegations they consider to be of that electrointensive status. What must never be done is to put the electoral interests of the People's Party against the Government of Spain before the interests of Alcoa, but the workers of Alcoa in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u275	Thank you, Mr. Losada. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u276	The truth is that it takes more time because this situation is a little curious, with the self-amendments that totally change the meaning of NLPs. I think it's all right, so there's more dynamism in the debate, I think it's interesting. Yeah, yeah, it's fine. But it's a schizophrenic situation. Reading the People's Party's self-amendment, I began to rescue non-law proposals that he presented in Marea in November and December 2016, during all 2017, during the first quarter of 2018, and it turns out that they were exactly the same as those that the People's Party now proposes. And they were all voted against by the People's Party, all of them! Now, instead, they propose, Phenomenal! And we support them, of course. We are consistent. As we proposed at that time, we will certainly support them. It's true that the PNL was about Ferroatlantic, but I heard him talk about Ferroatlantic, I heard about Pedro Sánchez. It seems that everyone here is already in the election campaign, and the important thing is not the workers of Ferroatlantics, but how the workers of Ferroatics can be used for the interests of certain parties. Mr. Feijóo also learned last week that electricity has an intolerable price in Spain. Well, it's good to come to that conclusion too. Obviously, when the megawatt is now permanently above 70 euros, while in France and Germany it is between 40 and 45 euros and in Norway in 32, of course it is intolerable! But, of course, the issue is that the solutions we support because it is an emergency situation for the electrointensive industries, these measures proposed by the People's Party — and I say that we support because we are in an emergency situation — are loaded on a part of society that is home, the rest of businesses and self-employed people, because if the fees are lower, they are paid to the rest of the consumers — Mr Losada said very well, and if the taxes are lower, there is less money to serve the social services. And yet, of course, there's an emergency situation and we have to deal with it, but it has to be said that this will not always be so, that we have to look for solutions. Why do the alternatives to interruptability in the rest of Europe have much lower budgets than in Spain, and in the field, the electrointensive industries are much more competitive? Why? Because, of course, if the kilowatt/hour costs 42, if you put them down 8, they go down to 34. But if you're in 75, if you're down 30, they're still above that in the rest of Europe. That's the problem we have! The problem we have is not the aid, which has always been very generous, more or less twice as much or triple as in most similar countries in Europe. The problem is the wholesale price of electricity, and there nobody wants to talk, either the Socialist Party or the People's Party. What can't be, is that prices are handled in a scandalous way. The European Union repeated it again last week: it is intolerable that in Spain those who generate electricity are the same as those who sell it. How can a market be competitive if those who produce and market are exactly the same and agree on their daily pockets to which they require to go to all the rest of the marketers? That's the problem, and that's what we need to talk about in the long run. I already say that we agree with the shock measures because the state and the rest of the consumers will not be able to support electro-intensive companies indefinitely at enormous cost. You'll have to ask yourself, who are the ones who make the most of it here? Obviously, electricity companies, which have an average of two to four times the same-sized companies in the rest of the European Union. That's where we have to ink! First, I say, comply with the directive of the European Union, and immediately separate the generation from the marketing, but in a totally real way! Then, on the other hand, to pull out, which we've already been saying, but like all the things we say, six or nine months later, it seems like the People's Party is incorporating them. See if this also comes one day, that would lower the megavatio/hour to 10 or 12 euros the next day of implantation. It would be to remove the nuclear industry, the wind and the hydraulics from the daily ports, because it makes no sense in a product that has totally stable production costs, which is investment depreciation — above nuclear and hydraulics are already amortized — and an increasingly low and fully stable maintenance cost, because raw matter, uranium, has a fairly stable price, and water and wind, as we all know, are not paid. For if these production systems have stable prices, the normal thing is that this type of production has stable prices. Specifically in Norway, for example, it is fifteen years, no less, so Alcoa in Norway pays 32 euros megawatt/hour. So let's work on it. We're working on changing the regulation of the electrical system, even if it's just these two things. Obviously, the electrics will be against it, because this, in addition to the other fourteen or fifteen measures that In Marea has been posing throughout the legislation, suppose thousands and billions of people who go to Italy, to Enel, who go to Kuwait, who go to Qatar... Let's go, all the shareholders of the big power companies! And within what we agree, I would do some killing. For example — well, of what we've been talking about these days too — that incentives for indirect CO2 emission costs instead of being referred to as the Government's project — Mr Losada, tell your minister that he removes from the budgetary provisions, because this money does not come from the budgets, these money comes from the revenue for the payments of CO2 — if the payments of CO2 grow continuously, why can't they grow? Why, if in 2016 600 million euros were entered for CO2 payments and in 2018 the People's Party put 150 million for these aids, you, when payments for CO2 increased to almost 800 million, to reduce to 30 million? How is that possible? Because that money comes directly from there, a finalist tax, it doesn't make sense. Then they change the matter to give guarantees, because payments for CO2 will always rise. So, electro-intensive companies would already see that these compensations would never go down, rather they would go up. And then another very important issue — ten seconds, Mr President — which is the subject of fully promoting bilaterality, as large electric consumers in most of Europe do. And in addition, one measure that we presented yesterday in the allegations made to the statute is that special electrointensive thrusts — as Norway has done — are taken out precisely to feed the electrointensive companies, with guaranteed and stable contracts over a minimum period of 15 to 20 years. Nothing else. I mean, we're going to vote in favour...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u277	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u278	...because with the self-amendment of the People's Party we fully agree with, that's what we presented a year ago, and at that time the People's Party, in the Government of Spain, did not do it; now yes; be welcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u279	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u280	Thank you, Mr. President. Indeed, Mr. Casal, in some respects, on wet, in what the People's Party tells us in its self-amendment. But there are also issues that list in a way that you don't even know very well what you mean. Lower the tax. Well, you're gonna have to figure out what kind of guy, like. They're too ambiguous formulations, and that's why we'd like that text to be improved. Because here Mr. Tellado came basically asking us to tell him yes, and that very well, and that he goes on the right way to Galician Union and to say yes to his allegations; that's what the People's Party is asking us to do. Because, in addition, as we have been so confident in the action of the Galician Union in the last few months, we have to keep putting a sale on our heads and in the interests of not knowing what unity because we continue to blindly trust that the performances that have not worked so far will work now. And, of course, it's a little particular concept of consensus and collective position, because in order to reach consensus and have a collective position, because there will have to be dialogue and there will be a little compromise on all sides; but, of course, there is not too much availability. In any case, as the vote is tomorrow, we are prepared to continue working on this issue. Then also here comes the spokesperson of the People's Party with excuses of the poor payer. Of course, now the Galician Union cannot assume as its own the claims of the San Cibrao committee because it presented the allegations yesterday. Look, the process of filing claims is to send an e-mail to the Ministry. We can introduce them both in a particular way, which is present by the People's Party, which is another political force which has not yet made allegations, which is present by Parliament. We will look at the formal fit to present these allegations, but the question is: Is there political will that all the political forces that we are here, regardless of what others are forced from Madrid, support the proposal of San Cibrao? Yes or no? Because that's what we're going to vote for, that's what we're going to vote for when we vote for the BNG initiative. Do we support the claims of San Cibrao? Yes or no? Just like they moved to many municipalities that will take them to their corporations. And the truth is that to me this question is already depressing, it's almost depressing, because it's really sad to have the country in this situation and that the voicer of the political party with the majority that reminds us so much in this country comes here to make electoral propaganda and, in addition, make it shabacan and bad quality. I already tell you, Mr. Tellado, to expropriate when I'm going to give the rallies around. As you say, it is the truth that you hear him speak almost seems to us to become benevolent to Peter Sánchez of hearing him. That's what I'm saying: it's listening and Mr Sánchez seems to rise in votes, just like the level of argument. In any case, he also failed to remember that the laws of the electricity sector, the two, were the People's Party, which you are at the root of the problem this country has now, are at the root of the problem. And we — we insist — make the same demand to the Socialist Party in the state as to the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u281	About the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u282	...because we don't marry anyone and we don't care who governs the state.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u283	On the amendments, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u284	What we are asking today is to raise the demand and gather the will of this committee and of the workers and workers in this country. And I'm done now, Mr. President. Simply add a question to the debate. We say it clearly, Mr Losada, we say it clearly. Mr. Tellado, we also said that in the debate on the Greek electricity tariff: who has to pay is the state, the budget is the state. Indeed, it doesn't have to affect consumers, because if there's money to rescue Madrid's radials, there's got to be money to boost the Greek industry; that's how we say it in our allegations as well. And on the amendments, we urge that since the People's Party there is flexibility and we can re-repeat its self-amendment. We are prepared to give in and negotiate on the basis of the People's Party's text so that we all achieve a joint position of this Parliament, despite all the violations of the agreements we have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u285	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u286	... reached for Alcoa. But, of course, we appeal for more generosity than to come here. We are asked to applaud Galician Union. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u287	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u288	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam President, the truth is that I agree with you: indeed, you are always very kind to Mr. Pedro Sánchez and very kind to the Socialist Party. Because here's a problem, which is the price of electricity. There is a government of the Socialist Party, of Pedro Sánchez, but you dare not criticize him. Why? Because they're partners where they can always have occasion. Or they deal with Otegui in Madrid or they deal with PSOE. That's the history of Greek nationalism, that's reality. Look, don't ask us to buy you the half-way from the Welsh electric fare by taking advantage of the Pisierga passing through Valladolid. The Greek electricity tariff, first of all, is illegal; secondly, it would be a very bad business for Galicia; and thirdly, what would happen when we cease to be surpluses in electricity production and we become deficits, as the Socialist Party intends by closing the thermals? Mrs. Noa Presas, bad business for Galicia, don't count on us for that. By the way, the Basque electric tariff doesn't exist, it doesn't exist. See if it's a bathtub that there are Galician companies that enjoy that rate. [[Murmurs.]] Man, don't take our hair off!, don't take advantage of it to sell a book that was very good in the 19th century but today doesn't make any sense. That's German nationalism. [[Applause]] Mr. Casal, thank you for your support for our self-amended initiative. The truth is that I was going to tell you the Tides of Podemos, but now I don't know what to call it, I have to turn it around; I hope that tomorrow, that we will meet again in a debate, I can somehow call your party. I'm telling you, honestly, thank you for your support. Don't talk to me about changing postures, because I don't accept it. I would have to recommend that you go to the hemerothec, see how the pontiff Yolanda Díaz — my neighbour pontefedresa — recently said that the aids, the incentives for electrointensives were a privilege. So, finally, about coherence, I invite you to look for those statements in the hemero library. Mr. Losada, it's a frivolity to come here and talk about polls when we're talking about jobs, a real frivolity to talk about polls when we talk about jobs. You came here to embarrass the debate, because you know that the problem is your president and the problem is your government. [[Murmurs.]] And therefore, as it was indefensible to defend the position of the Government of Spain, because you know that you are at the heart of the problem, you came here to talk about everything. I have to tell you one thing: in these socialist topics you forgot to talk about Franco, you talked about everything else, but you forgot about Franco. [[Applause]] Look, you know what I'm telling you? This problem, which is not new, is that of the price of the electrointensive industry, Mariano Rajoy's government has solved it on several occasions, and you've been deep in a problem for nine months. Do you know where the problem is? In the breakdown of the Spanish electric system, of the tariff deficit, thirty billion euros, the socialist inheritance of Rodríguez Zapatero. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira shows a document.]] So that's the reality. And it's true: we're naive. We left this debate more concerned than we did, because, after hearing it, we already know that Pedro Sánchez will not solve this problem, because Pedro Sánchez is the problem. That's why you're not going to solve anything at all. Look, we're used to listening to the government delegate insult people's intelligence, as grateful stomach it is. The Government delegate insults the intelligence of the Greeks and, in particular, of the Alcoa workers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u289	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u290	I regret that with that grateful stomach you add to that strategy and become Sánchez palm trees instead of defenders of Galician interests. La-men-ta-ble!, la-men-ta-ble!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u291	About the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u292	By the way...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u293	About the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u294	...the speech of Feijóo is exactly the same as that of the workers and the unions, the same: either we guarantee a stable price or no one will buy Alcoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u295	About the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u296	That's the reality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u297	About the amendments?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u298	I think the self-amendment we're presenting picks up all the issues, but we'll be able to talk to the Galician Nationalist Block over the hours we have ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u299	A transaction is pending, okay. Thank you. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Vilan? What do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u300	I don't think it's necessary to explain it too much: to remove the "thankful stomach" of the government delegate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u301	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u302	And, if possible too, that adjective of "fundamentalist", which we all know, means, of the Minister of Ecological Transition. Because the adjectives each know which one they use and sometimes come back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u303	This debate I think was a debate with a confrontation of a certain hardness but respectful. And that's often... yes, yes, yes, I've been paying attention and it was a debate... No, it was a tough debate... No, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, please, I'm talking. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It was a hard debate, but I think it was a respectful debate. [[Murmurs.]] I understand. [[Murmurs.]] So, we're going to the next... we're going to leave the thing like this. [[Murmurs.]] Let's just calm down. See if he wins Spain today, that's also important. And calm down. [[Laughter]] All right, let's go, come on. Proposition... yes, yes, no, Spain plays a very important game today with Malta, eh! [[Murmurs.]] Well, I say it 'cause I'm fond of it and you have to win it, man! [[Murmurs.]] Besides, 12-1 in the first, and the doorman of Malta is the son of what he took 12 then, I don't know if they know. [[Laughter]] [[Laughter]] Please, come on, let's go. Now, out of the question, you have to have some distraction in the debate, which, if not, this... G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of In Marea, at the initiative of Da Maria de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and Da Luca Chao Pérez, on the measures to be taken by Junta de Galicia with regard to the protection of claws
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u304	There are two amendments: one from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and one from the People's Parliamentary Group. [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block (BNG), at the initiative of Mr Xosé Luís Rivas Cruz, in the light of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal for, doc. # 45086 [10/PNP-003388].Replace the resolution part with the following text:"- Develop a plan for the protection of the Breezal-Garden-Vacae ecosystem in extended-lobo-man throughout the territory that counts in its elaboration with all the agents involved in its conservation.- Establish, while this plan does not start up, a system of dust losses and more jets accords with the reality that prevents the neglect and abandonment of the owners of this singular glove.")]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u305	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u306	Well, we're going to change the register a little bit and be quiet, because this is... [[Murmurs.]] Well, in the proposal we bring here today, there's a mistake: it's not about cattle what we're going to talk about, the claws aren't cattle, I don't know who put that subtitle. I don't know, it's a mistake, in that case it's a mistake. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The claws, or also called mountain burs, beasts, wild horses, are...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u307	Please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u308	...according to the most prestigious zoologist who knows better this type of equidae, the most important Greek natural heritage and is in danger of extinction. I want to start by saying that we take a question to Commission 4a because it's not only an environmental issue, it's also a cultural, heritage issue, and whoever came to answer was the current CEO, Mr. Balsairos — I think it is — you know, Baskets... okay, sorry. Well, you usually confuse the name of the parliamentary group. I'm sorry, especially, Mr. Balsairos. Well, Mr. Balsairos came to the commission excusing himself, saying that he couldn't give a proper answer because he didn't know why he had to come, he considered that the question was addressed to other stations of the Council that he represented. She regretted not seeing her expectations met and explained that, apart from being unable to respond, they had no notice, no reports of demands from the Institute of Minority Studies. This book, I think, has been left by the representatives of the Instituto de Estudios Minorans to all parliamentary groups, including ours, in 2017; that is, it's too late. [[Madam Cuña Bóveda shows a book.]] We have long wanted to bring here a subject that we consider as absolutely priority. The more time it takes, the more danger of extinction these equidae, equidae that have been in Galicia for 20,000 years; before they were inhabited by the human being our mountains, they were already these equidae. They delivered this, but nothing was done. It's time to come to accords, it's time to fulfill what generously facilitates us several voices. I will give voice to voices, very important voices, who are studying this subject. For example, Xilberte Manso, who is one of the Institute's representatives, says that people confuse — and it's true — the value of the price when he talks about claws. They have almost no commercial value, but they have an extraordinary heritage value, of the first order. Its own singularities and its ethnographic and cultural value are something worthy of protecting. Felipe Bárcena, who says it's Galicia's most important natural value, makes very concrete and very important differences with horses. This primitive horse is not exactly a horse. They put a hybrid of horses that can't stay on the mountain, it's not the same thing, because there are differences of all kinds, genetic differences, morphological, physiological, ecological and even reproductive. Claws can stay on toxins, that's what they eat, and horses are herbivores. The claws are the inhabitants of the mountains, while the horses are the steppe. They have the lowest center of gravity, shortest extremities, primitive qualities, curved ears, and are territorial -- that's very important -- The claws always return to their territory even though they have to search for water and a place to drink, but they return to the areas where life is spent. It's a peculiar distinguishing feature. Laura Lagos, a mountain engineer, has a doctorate, a fascinating thesis on the claw as a native species, as a great herbivore. It plays a key role in the mid-mountain ecosystems of Galicia where it lives. Its presence provides enormous benefits in what are called environmental services. It says four key things. First, they keep the habitats open for slaughterhouses and therefore benefit all associated species of vertebrates, birds, amphibians and even invertebrates. They're adapted to consume, as we've already said, coughs -- we all know what the toxo is -- but, in addition, thirdly, they have a crucial importance for another species, too in danger, which is the wolf. The importance of the claws is explained in how the claws' powders are preyed upon by wolves and that ecological interaction explains that there exists in very few parts of the world. The wolf also consumes too many other animals that die for other natural causes throughout the rest of the year. And that importance, with respect to the wolf, is attenuating the impact on the cattle cattle and the coexistence with the cattle generates a lower level of conflict and facilitates the gainful activity. And above all -- and it's a fundamental thing -- they also help prevent fires, which is very cheap, and the areas where the claws don't burn. There's a lot we could say. It's something to keep. Xose Lois Vilar, an archeologist who is also important, speaks of the genetic contribution, but in addition, we have to say that there are sixty surfaces where they appear engraved in petroglyphs. They need help to save themselves. The Institute of Minorán Studies is also collaborating with the coordinator of associations, in which, among other things, are the Cabal Association Monte Acibal of Amil; The Rapa of the Best of Sabucedo; the Association of Owners. We have to say: only wild equidae in the world; neither in Mongolia nor in the United States; they are a small one; in Portugal they also exist, and they are national heritage. We don't have regulation here. So what you're asking is that all the experts, all the owners, and well, the Lobo Association, institutes, SOS Groba, finally... they have just presented together these associations a resource in Strasbourg so that the procedure is allowed to be made to make a specific regulation that protects them, that they contemplate all their natural and cultural values, that their presence is ordered in the traditional habitats and that it is considered, that all the importance that they have, and so also the traditional parties, the parties of the rapes and the yards. It's very important, and there's attention calls even from universities. It has to be said that there are many actions being carried out to try to value this heritage and make it known, because it is quite unknown, all this reality of an animal that really sounds only when they are brutally assaulted in an inhuman way, in a fierce way or by accidents, which is also about avoiding. The cultural presence and the biodiversity of ecosystems are unique. It is also questionable the famous Equine Decree, 142/2012, to which many claim that there is an error in vision, because it seemed to be a requirement of the European Union, and the European Union makes a specific exception on wild horses, which in this case are wild and with owners, unique in the world. What we ask for in this initiative is to create a commission involving owners of claws, eco-xist associations, scientists, zoologists, biologists, ethnographers, geneticists, universities, mountain communities, local authorities, councils, deputies, legal and political advisers of all parties with parliamentary representation. And secondly, to prepare a document on which these essential issues are collected, so that we can consensually present a legal proposal that responds to such an important problem. In just over seven years, the population has been reduced. In the 1970s there were twenty thousand copies, today they are said to remain around seven hundred and peak. If they've endured the whole story, which is a long story, they can't disappear now. I make a call to awareness and to seek an agreement from all these groups for the importance and dimension that they have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u309	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u310	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. This initiative presented to us here today In Marea is born, as they recognize in their argument, of a call of attention in Oia with a lamentable event of animal brutality struck with claws, that is, with the native Welsh wild equidae. But the truth is that the threat that hangs on the claw is similar throughout the Greek territory: the Xistral saw, the Cadramón, the Walls... we are in front of an animal made for the crickets, the carpaces, and more for the toxo; an animal that has its existence conditioned to the galley mountain and more to the wolf, because the survival of these three elements is so interrelated that none could live normally without the other two. And there comes the human being, the beast, as a fourth balancing element, since very old, who, without breaking his freedom, takes advantage of the situation: hens, leather, meat, habitat. More recently this habitat gains interest in new uses of men without the sensitivity of the beast, less respectful of the values that are not translated into pure and hard currency: pine, eucalyptus, all-clothing foresting and artificial pastures dispute the role of this symbiosis previously exposed. As has already been said here, the importance and value of already mentioned ecosystems deserve a public and budget implication that goes through the maintenance of the aforementioned balance. If the claw plays a fundamental role in keeping the broom and tox, avoiding the danger of fire and preserving the surface turbides, unique in old Europe, for its part the wolf keeps the claw healthy and good genetics, as long as it is organized into healthy grains and with a demographic number and pyramid also healthy to keep the wolf straight. Only the human factor is missing. If we managed to keep this status profitable, the balance of this ecosystem would be assured. Only the desire and abandonment by the Government of the People's Party makes the threat a reality. The Council refuses to pay for the damage of the wolf by excusing that you can't count the chickens and beasts eaten by him. The claws are wild animals that in many cases are also part of the feeding of the vultures, so given the extension of some surrounding mountains, it is not possible to find their remains. And the beast does not understand abandonment and incomprehension. Because with good will and interest if it's possible to estimate casualties. Let us put it this way that at the end of a fence of a thousand hectares we have a hundred females of fertile age, of which, between abortions and bad births, we can give -- a guess -- 15% of losses. It would be eighty-five live and normal pods. In the next count, we would have left the live pods and pay those casualties. Of course, the price could not be measured in the material value of the meat and yes in the total ecosystem value. And another one we would do with the jets, because here we haven't called the jets, but there's also a cattle that lives in these fenced with the claw and complements it. To develop a plan of protection of the Brezal-Granno-Vacae ecosystem in extensive-lobo-home for all the Greek territory that counts in its elaboration with all the agents involved in its conservation would be the total measure we propose as amends to the agreement. But the weather rushes, because the fats are weak, the meat of the claws and the jets has little value in the market, the mud of surface bah!, the wolf grows and the mountain dreary and the weak beast, and the total, that is, the unique ecosystem in the world of wild coexistence of these survivors is wounded by death. That's why it is immediately to establish, while this protection plan does not put in place, a system of count of dust losses and more of jetting agrees with the reality that prevents the neglect and abandonment of the owners of this singular gain. So, from the awareness that we are dealing with a unique ecosystem in the world, that a cultured country that values itself must protect and preserve, from that conviction, is that we make our amendment so that the LNP, which has its local scope, is moved to the Greek field that we believe we should have from the BNG. This ecosystem is a luxury, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. To assume and extract economic performance from it is a matter of sensitivity, and everyone has what they have, don't they?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u311	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u312	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. I want to start by thanking Mrs Cuña for bringing us a debate, finally, calm, calm, relaxed, because we've been having a complicated day today. Look, an entrepreneur who broke his company wants to teach us business management lessons. The creators of the "Euromillion Fridays" — who also baptized Mrs. Prado — accused us of electoralism for defending the jobs of German workers. And even there was one Member who accused us of maintaining certain dangerous friendships, which is part of the group that had the deference to invite to an election victory by Pablo Escobar Gaviria, a small Colombian smuggler, later known as another more serious smuggling.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u313	It's in a small introduction. On the subject, on the matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u314	Home! I wouldn't qualify as a claw, would I? But of dangerous friendship, yeah, right? [[Laughter]] So, actually... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u315	To the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u316	...I'm grateful that we can measure this. Look, the People's Parliamentary Group is in favour of taking the necessary measures from the Greek public institutions to ensure the conservation of the wild equine hut of the Greek mountains for a number of reasons. First, by the singularity of these — probably — only wild horses in the world, as Mrs Cuña well said; by the need to protect the Greek biodiversity, especially in a kind of high ecological, environmental value, at risk of extinction, as well as by the importance of the ethnographic acquis associated with these beasts and in a unique way to the yards and the rapage of the beasts. What happens is that Mrs Cuña has stated that nothing has been done in this matter, and I think that there can be no such assertion, because it must be remembered that since the German Government, various measures are being developed that have been aimed at protecting and preserving the purely Greek race horse since 1993. See, in 1993 the plan for the conservation, promotion and improvement of the mountain Greek horse was approved. The provisional log of race horses was created in 1996. In 1998 the genealogical book of the mountain Greek horse was settled and its racial standard was defined. The regulation was extended in 2001 and the breeding programme for the recovery, promotion and dissemination of the race was established. In that same year the term "mountain Greek horse" was changed. You have confused Mr. Balsairo in his name, but it is not the only one we confuse — the name — because today's official name is "the horse of pure Greek race", and as such it was included in the official catalogue of Spanish races within the section of indigenous races in danger of extinction. And it should also be recalled that from 2007 to 2013, different economic support campaigns were carried out from the Autonomic Administration to microchip and census of these animals. If we speak in the cultural field, we must remember that the rapa of the beasts held in Sabucedo has been declared a party of international tourist interest and that of Boimente, of national tourist interest. Man, I think something, something, if it's done, right? You can't say you're not collaborating with the owners either, right? Because there's actually an association of breeders, you're betting on the protection of the racial prototype, and you're also discriminating the specimens of the mountain that don't comply with the genomic prototype of this race. And that's done with the economic collaboration of the Galician Union. Nor can it be said that we lack legal regulation for this type of animal, because there is legal protection, through the Equine Decree, that you have signalled, through the Royal Decree 348/2000, of the Royal Decree 804/2011 and of the Law 32/2007. I'd say it's been done a lot, but that doesn't mean there's no margin of improvement, and that's why, as there's room for improvement, we're presenting an amendment which we understand includes measures to deepen the protection of the purely Greek race horse and that we believe that it can well reconcile the interests of the House's groups, the owners and the different associations that are concerned about this subject. First, responding to the demand of the Institute of Minorán Studies and other associations, developing a protocol of placement in value and protection of the purely Greek race horse in dialogue with the associative tissue, with the owners and experts on the subject, including, for example, as you well pointed out, the count of Torrecedeira, who is one of the great experts in this matter. Second, pushing the census for explicit control of the totality of copies through microchipped, because many campaigns have been made and much progress has been made. In Groba's greenhouse, by the way, they assume they've microchipped 100 percent of their copies, but elsewhere they haven't done such a good job. Assessing the state of health of the purely Greek equinated cabin, with particular attention to parasitic diseases, because you also know that in the Groba greenhouse there is a certain concern about the proliferation of carts and you have to disparasit them, because it is a risk to the animals themselves but also to the human being, you have to make a special follow-up. And, of course, we ask you to continue to bet on the promotion of your ethnographic values and very especially on this unique event...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u317	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u318	...which are the yards and the rap of the beasts. I, therefore, would like to thank you for bringing us a matter of such profound silence at a time when it seems that we were so upset by other subjects, which I think is also very important, and what I hope is that we will be able to reach an agreement so that among all of us we can give a speech for the protection of these beasts. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u319	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u320	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. Mr. Pazos Couñago, a curious scene depicts his call to tranquility and peace in this debate. [[Laughter]] Of course, the start-up didn't invite much to that quiet debate. [[Applause]] At this point on the agenda today, we are debating a bill by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea that reaches a unique equidae: the claw. I don't remember a debate in this House about the animal issue, but I'm also sure that, if Mrs. Cuña said it, it certainly happened and possibly because of an absence of me or because it had been dealt with in a committee where I wasn't certainly not given the opportunity to listen to that debate. And, of course, I think there must have been a huge brutality in the Groba saw so that this equidae had won the protagonist in this House today, also in the next commission to be held in two days. Too bad, once again, it was a "animal"—and I intercede that word—of the man, in the form of brutal slaughter, which he wanted today the claws to live with us friendlyly. Sometimes, too often, humans behave in a contemptuous manner to the means that gives us life and to the history that conquered that medium. And the claws are an ancestral race that have contributed in their realm to having a more habitable means for the whole of living beings and they continue to play that role, though with many lows in their ranks, as Mrs. Cuña has already remembered. Too many casualties — I would say — for actions and omissions of humans and administrations, with a species or a subspecies, the claws, which balanced and follow in the work in the Greek mountains for many years, so many that memory is lost in the times to remember them. But its primitive presence gives faith to the mountains and saws of the surroundings of the Minor Valley and other ecosystems along and wide of Galicia. They also give faith the traces left in the archaeological heritage, in the engravings of the cliffs, etc., etc. We believe that the contributions of the claws to the Greek mountains for centuries must have a recognition of their past, an assessment of their present and a bet decided by their future, because their future is in part also our future. That's why we must highlight, value and care for the plurality of our land. The sum of minimums brings wealth and greatness and the exclusion of minimums remains wealth and impoverishes. We must be aware that in the so-called mountain, in the Greek mountain, there is space for various species and subspecies of fauna and flora, and the flora and fauna coexisted and cohabited without human intrusion, shaping a natural habitat of great ecological value, of enormous natural balance. And citizens and administrations must strive to preserve balance, to preserve the ecological value of our territory, because each of the natural habitats we have lost — I repeat: by action or omission — are irrecoverable. We will never be able to artificially recover what years and centuries have contributed to building naturally. Ladies and gentlemen, the claws, who live free in the mountains and forests around the Minor Valley and elsewhere, as I said earlier, are threatened and at risk of extinction. If that situation had happened, it would drag away the loss of many things and values as well as we would never be able to recover. That's why we welcome the work, the concern and demands of the Institute of Minor Studies, and that's why we are going to support this initiative of the En Marea Group, to create a commission as plural and participatory as necessary and efficient in its work and to develop a document with the necessary efficiency and effectiveness capable of preserving and even boosting the habitat object of this initiative: the survival of claws. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u321	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Fernández. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u322	I thank all groups, in principle, for their responsiveness and sensitivity. And a nuance for the PSdeg spokesman: it hasn't been debated, they brought us the dosier that I showed to each and every one of the groups and, if they lost it or didn't have it, I can make it easier for them; it's worth it, very much. With respect — I've gone to the big — amendments, the amendment to the Nationalist Block speaks of a specific problem in an area of the country where there are wolves and cows and claws and also broilers. But it's not the case of the whole country, nor is it the relationship, for example, in the Groba greenhouse. Yes, we have to protect the bears, the wolves and the cows, and all this could be considered in this case within the regulation proposed here, and which would have to be drawn up and which could be contemplated in all cases. Accepting this amendment would limit reality to a specific case and not all the generality we have in the country. In the second one, you're talking about traditional glove. We don't talk about cattle. The claws are not cattle; there are free horses, they are; the claws are different. [[Murmurs.]] When the People's Party speaks of "the horse of pure Greek race", the horse of pure Greek race is different from the stick as well. Yes, yes, yes. [[Murmurs.]] It's a race created from brave, selected copies, which basically grew up in captivity. The mountain horse and the claw have no genealogical book nor do they comply with the pattern set for the pure Greek race. We're not talking about pure Galician race; we're talking about donkeys, beasts, mountain horses, wild horses, there's a polysemia. The Bárcena itself likes to speak of Equus ferus atlanticus, who is not yet recognised — possibly recognized. But nothing has to do with it, because the pure Greek horse has some patterns, and inside the claws there are different ones. If we are in favour of a census being made throughout the country, setting up specific areas and seeing the difference that arises depending on the areas of the country in which we are living. At Groba's greenhouse, as you well said, there's already all the microchipped and curly claws. Together has that data. Third, the pure Greek race is not a wild animal, it is not. If we have to evaluate the health status of the claws — it is true — but we have to do it in the yards, which is the only day a year in which they are in possession of the animals, their owners, promoting vaccines and adapting them to dams at prices and doses; it is not easy right now to deal with the problem of diseases transmitted by ticks. That could also be considered in the necessary regulation we propose. If protection measures — its fourth amendment — need to be put in place, evaluation and preservation of the courses. We are proposing this new regulation. There's nothing real about it right now that looks at all the realities that we have in the Galician geography. The pure Greek race was made to take advantage of the economic community's aid to indigenous races. It's nice, but it's incapable of living on the mountain. You just have to go to the bottom of the matter, not just show some part of reality. It's a unique heritage.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u323	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u324	For example, there is no Loba saw. It's not greed — it's very clear — even though the decree they applied....
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u325	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u326	Well, we will continue to talk and I hope that we will reach an agreement and that the specific regulation will be brought forward, as it deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u327	Then we wait for the transaction by tomorrow. Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People, at the initiative of Mr Moisés Blanco Paradelo and five other Members, on the maintenance by the Council of Galicia of their support to the professionals working in the part-time German field, as well as the encouragement of the measures necessary to encourage and protect their activity in this field.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u328	An amendment was tabled by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u329	To formulate the non-law proposition, Mr. Blanco Paradelo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u330	Good afternoon, gentlemen. Thank you, President. Before I begin, I would like to express, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, all our solidarity and support for the neighbours of Dodro and Rianxo, who are suffering the consequences of a terrible fire in the last few hours. We also want to recognize the good work and efficiency of all the workers who are intervening in the extinction work. I want to remember that they have participated today in twenty-eight agents, two technicians, twenty-seven brigades, eighteen motorcycle bombs, five passes, seven helicopters and four planes, and therefore these words of affection go from here to all the workers and neighbors of these two municipalities. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, when we are dealing with a debate on rural issues in this House, we can see a clear duality in the different positions: on the one hand, it would be the pessimistic, nostalgic position of the past, trapped in that loop of urgency which prevents us from analyzing the current situation and from seeing beyond the usual mantras, that is to say: they abuse us, they take advantage of us — as if the Greeks were fools —, the four big companies that come to erupt the territory, capitalism, etc., and, of course, the best thing is from the outside. And on the other hand there are those who speak of rural in positive terms, who boast of what we have, who believe in their future, given the social and economic context of reality today, and who show the great ability and capacity of our farmers and livestock, our products and the excellent properties of Galician land. We are therefore faced with an old dichotomy among those who, from an almost immobilist interpretation, think that speaking ill of the rural Welsh is better electorally and those who feel proud of the rural, recognize the current reality and want to find viable and suitable solutions for the future. The People's Group is clear where it wants to be: where it speaks well of the rural, because Galicia is rural, and why speaking well of the rural of Galicia is well spoken of by Galicia. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we are of the team that feels proud of the rural, a Brazilian country that has to continue to progress, modernize and innovate, but without giving up its tradition, uses and habits deeply rooted. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the last forty years the primary sector, consisting of small and medium-sized holdings of polyculture, which works well to make farmers and livestock, transmitted from generation to generation, quadrupled their economic production, being a national and international reference. It places 7.6 % of employment and 8% of all domestic sales, with a turnover of more than twenty-seven thousand workers. Therefore, referring to the quality of our wines, to organic products, to leaders in the meat sector, also leaders in milk, with about 40% of the milk production of the national total, and also leaders in the wood sector, in the forest sector. The volume of cuts in the Galician mountain rose to 8.25 million cubic meters and assumed about 300 million euros of income. Of these cuts, more than 50% corresponded to the eucalyptus, that is, more than one hundred and fifty million euros, which made 80 thousand Greek families earn income. I'd like to take this occasion and not let it pass to talk about the issue of the granting of Ence. We certainly do not understand the new position of the Central Government against the award of the company Ence, a position that we fully qualify as irresponsible. I used to hear the different voices, particularly the Socialist Party industry, repeating on several occasions — I said — all support for workers, all support for employment. And I wonder, is this support of the Socialist Party also addressed to the 5,000 workers of Ence? Is that support from the Socialist Party also directed to those eighty thousand families who receive income from the timber sector? I would like the different voices from the rural environment to speak on this issue today, but very much so that the spokesman of the Socialist Group had done so. With this data, it's good to note that Galicia is the community with the highest degree of plot of Spain, whose lands have an average surface of just over 2,500 square meters. The average surface of the rustic soil per holder in Galicia is 1.7 hectares, while the average in Spain is 5.74 hectares. Therefore, the great atomization and dispersion of land shows a very particular structure of the Galician field, which has so far conditioned, the population settlement, the way to take advantage of our natural resources and the development of agricultural and forestry activity; activities that have thousands of jobs scattered throughout Galicia, of which much are performed under the part-time mode, and in different areas at the same time, the known as polyculture, so they were and are still an interesting source of complementary income for many Greek families, but not only rural families, but also for those who, living in more urban areas, maintain their properties and develop activities in the Galician field. Ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to continue to support part-time workers, also through the aid of the CAP, because in Galicia the size of exploitation is very low and not all CAP beneficiaries have a total commitment to agriculture, as you know. This reflects that more than 80% of CAP beneficiaries receive less than EUR 10 000 per year. A few days ago, in Oviedo, the agricultural advisors of Galicia, Asturias, Cantabria and Basque Country, on a common front, signed a very important document which, in this sense, established that "in the next CAP, the definition of genuine farmer takes into account all professional farmers, without excluding those who are engaged in agricultural activity in part, who maintain a live rural tissue by complementing their income with other activities." And they also added that "in territories such as the cantabrian cornice, where farms are limited by orography and minifundism and where the predominant productive model is family exploitation, there must be greater support for small and medium farms." Ladies and gentlemen, in the strategy of the Galician Union to try to curb the depopulation of rural areas and promote generational relief, the Galician Rural Development Programme (PDR) 2014-2020 is being implemented, with specific assistance for the incorporation of young people into agricultural activity or aid for the creation of enterprises for the development of small farms, where people who are part-time engaged in agricultural activity can benefit from this aid. Before I finish, I'd like to leave some reflection on the future of rural Galician. The excessive parting and the concept of minifundism don't have to be something negative in itself. We must consider that it is possible to conceive small or medium-sized family farms with a partial or full-time allocation that group their land reaching a sufficient dimension to ensure their economic viability. But we also want to make it perfectly clear that Galician rural areas should not inevitably walk towards a massive and compulsory partial concentration. We do not intend to replace traditional and cultural minifundist and family practice by creating large extensions or plots in a forced or artificial way, away from our social and economic reality — for nothing — but if we put in place new management tools to encourage the mobilization of land, groupings and permuts, and to produce abandoned productive land. A good example can be the creation of agroforestry polygons, as the advisor has already announced, allowing them to define areas of good agronomic quality dedicated to high value added crops and with sufficient plots to guarantee profitability. So those who think that the People's Party bets or defends monoculture or that the earth will pass by the hands of a few, wrong themselves. And for this, you'll have to put anti-hull measures on the table, with a new fair and equitable organization. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is time to face a change of mind, to reconcile new industries and new business projects and, in view of the reality of the Galician field, to continue protecting part-time laborers, to promote new measures that guarantee and enhance this way of developing an activity in rural areas, as it also serves to enhance productive land, to maintain economic activity, to take care of and clean the plots and to help fight fires. For all this, our proposal is to urge the Rural Environment Council to maintain support for professionals working in the field on a part-time basis, as well as...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u331	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u332	...to push how many measures are necessary to encourage and protect his activity in the Greek field. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u333	Thank you very much, Mr. Blanco. Mr Rivas Cruz has the floor by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u334	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, our solidarity with the people who work in the fire, with the people who are beating the copper day after day, despite the wrong policies of the Rural Council in this respect. It's about to start defending the eucalyptus now, isn't it? Fires start. Look, you have experience, sometimes too much, but it's never too much, because the past serves to be able to look at the future. It only denies from the past the one who weighs or doesn't want to know, but that position is to deny and mortgage the future. Of course I do. Galicia, half seven plots, 1.7 acres; in the state, 5.74, and five plots, which is more, because there goes Galicia too. In Andalusia and part of the Meseta, latifundaio has conditioned the population by subjugating it into poverty and forcing it to brutal emigration throughout history. In Galicia it was the minifundus who took the blame for our evils, but, in the end, the economic failure of agricultural property structures lies in the futility of governments to arbitrate formulas that overcome these pitfalls and promote models that share wealth and stimulate the use of resources in a sustainable, diverse and social way. They do not justify, therefore, their proven ineptitude in the minifond. In the 1970s, in Galicia, with emigration, with wood, with the construction and ruin of the owners of peace and homes, we moved on to a situation of hope. Let's put it by chance: a family of landlords in that decade, he with wood on his back or up in a stay giving it to the palette and to the wool; she, dragged, raising the children and caring for the five or ten cows of half milk, with the chins or the can. As a result, they bought the place for the owners, a third-hand tractor, and they started taking it off. The milk comes out of poverty for the peasants. Then they came up with their policies to envelop everything. Because PP didn't want to. Since the Galician Union, he has dilapidated the large amounts of European money in friends, chanchos and some other well of purin. There were no serious measures to support the superhuman effort the peasants and peasants were doing. No, no, no, no. It was all worth it, taking advantage of the Frankish structures and reliefs, it was all worth it. And despite everything, with the political wind in the face, the sector has fallen, it has fallen, it exists and it resists, because the result of these policies is that no one has remembered when it was negotiated — and still is negotiated — with Europe that we have wine here, because the wine sector has not entered or entered the CAP, we do not exist in Europe. And in this country of the thousand microclimates, the benign soils, of the visibly friendly nature or of the people with earth in the blood, in this country, there is officially no conventional garden, and therefore in Europe they do not know and consider themselves not in the CAP. Please note, ladies and gentlemen, that neither in the orders of aid to the prevention and repair of damage to the brave pig is expected to exist, how curious! I have no idea — I am sorry, Mr President. And now you remind them, in an election campaign initiative — that nothing compromises — the support of the professionals working in the field in part-time. Well, go! We have completed the proposal with these additions: recognizing that the professional garden sector has been and is being abused by the forgetfulness of the Galician administration, "the Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to initiate the necessary procedures to overcome the obstacles of all kinds existing in renting and using parcels that have abandoned agricultural activity, making the Land Bank available to it, trying to include it in the CAP and betting for the implementation of the sector with new incorporations through dimensional production units. Make another one in the dairy sector, taking advantage of and resizing farms abandoned by means of leases or protected sales that have made rural populations and allow the sector to extend and extend the territory". By the way, this second point of the amendment is even in the institutional statement this morning that you both applauded. And now I could take Mr Paz's tone and say, because if we agree that we should maintain support for part-time workers, we also believe that the field is something so serious that it is worth serving him full-time. Do you know what's missing? To believe in it, to socialize again the activity and to guide government policy to dynamize the productive and transformation sectors to generate jobs and wealth. But that's only for you Mandarin Chinese. I personally thank you for your desire for protection.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u335	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u336	My partner and I are owners of 5,000 square meters — all of it a latifonde — and we have part-time cultivation for us and our children. And we can charge the CAP, right? Because we enter the model PP farmer-gandler, and we also have bugs. How could you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u337	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u338	... being a government, will they bring a GNP of only good intentions, without concrete measures, without calculated matches? It's a mistake. It's a PNL to justify what they do now as elections. And if not...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u339	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u340	...and it's not about propagating, dare accept the amendments to our amendment. Come on, let's go!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u341	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u342	Come on!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u343	In that spirit it is now the turn of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Fernández Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u344	Thank you, Mr. President. It's also our support, the Socialist Group, to the recognition of the work of all the people who are trying to extinguish those fires, and also our support to those neighbors and neighbors who are suffering from that situation. Workers in the part-time German field. We believe that we should place this issue of special type of work in the Italian countryside in the right context to value it in its fair measure. And I think we can all agree, to a greater or lesser extent, that Galicia currently shows a recognised stage of weakness in a broad territorial space despite the well-known strengths it has in this same area. The so-called rural medium advances in the depopulation and abandonment of lands, identifying more and more with desertification. And that's not an assessment, that's a reality that gives all the data from several studies. In the so-called rural environment — as I say — depopulation and abandonment, correlated and consistent facts, are causing major changes in that environment and increasing imbalances in the whole of our territory. Because the imbalance between rural and urban is manifest; in urban lives 75-80 % of the population, occupying 20-30 % of the territory, and in rural gives the reverse situation: it lives 20-25 % of the population of Galicia, occupying 75-80 % of the territory. This imbalance limits and even reduces the overall development of Galicia in economic, social, natural, employment, environmental, etc., etc. It is therefore necessary to shorten this negative dynamics of rural depopulation and, therefore, of abandonment of land, with active, clear, effective and evaluable policies that promote scenarios conducive to rural activity in two lines. On the one hand, enabling scenarios to develop the potentials that we have — which, as I have already said, are many — simply some, in forest, in livestock, in agriculture, in viticulture, in beekeeping, etc., etc., etc. And, on the other hand, to act in maintaining active scenarios today — also modest ones — at risk of disappearance, with the corresponding abandonment of the land and with always harmful side effects to rural territory and the Galician ensemble. And this initiative of the People's Parliamentary Group is on this line: the maintenance of agricultural activities in rural areas through professionals working in the field in part-time. We are convinced that, if rural activity stays and grows, rural population also grows. Today much of the maintenance of rural population and rural activity is propitiated by the figure and mode of part-time workers on multiple production plots that allow us to our generous lands. It is true — as Mr. Blanco Paradelo pointed out in his speech — that this part-time activity in the field produces economic benefits in the form of supplementary income for many Greek families, very valuable incomes which mean added value for the livelihood of their homes, in view of the insufficient wages they receive for their main activity. But if this individual activity is important, it is even more important from a social point of view, because, if there is activity, there is human life in rural areas. A rural life, in rural villages, which can be realized in two ways in which it reaches the part-time worker: permanently, with permanent residence stable in rural towns and villages, being its main activity in the place itself or out of place; and also occasionally, with residence in the city but very linked to the village and village, where it performs the second part-time activity. In both cases, permanent or occasional residence, but permanent activity in these same towns and villages because of the demands of working the land to obtain the fruits of crops...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u345	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u346	...brings the most varied benefits to the Greek society. That's why it's important that this part-time mode of work remains and even extends. I'm going to finish, Mr. President. From our point of view — I believe that it is shared by all administrations — we cannot stay close to this reality, to the existence of the part-time worker, as we cannot be allies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u347	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u348	...to its importance in rural areas, for which, and already finished, we must put the necessary means to assess its social role, beginning with a clear clarification of the definition of genuine farmers and part-time workers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u349	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u350	...as was done in a document already drawn up in August 2018 and as requested by the Government of Spain. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u351	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. Mr Rodríguez Estévez has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u352	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. First of all, from En Marea to condemn the incendiaries who are working all over the country these days. Also from In Marea to give action and strength to the companions who are working precariously in many cases these days fighting against the lamps, as well as to the neighbors and neighbors who throughout and wide this country are suffering in their mountains and near their houses the threat of forest fires. Thirdly, I would also like to know where the chest that President Feijóo drew here in the middle of the 9th of October, in the middle of the Autonomy debate, just over five months ago, when he released, in a superb and overpowering way, that the problem of forest fires in this country was over, because they had already put in place twenty-five of the thirty magic measures he had promised. As they say in my land, he'll cheat, and here he's proving himself to be the president because he's a talker and a liar. In the course of the year, in less than three months, he's been burning more than last year. What were thirty magic measures turns into pure and harsh improvisation, which leaves us to the mercy of it raining, just like in 2017. The fifty workers and Seaga workers are at home; the public service brigades, which announced Mr. Paradelo they were working, many of them are with two or three components. The protection tracks of the rural nuclei — this strong idea that's been selling us these months — are not. To the initiative. Agriculture or part-time gain has been and remains an interesting source of supplementary income for many Greek families, but not only from rural, but also for those who, living in more urban areas, maintain their properties and develop some activities in the field. So workers and workers who dedicate themselves to the garden, wine or livestock, among other sectors, find an economic plugin for the support of their homes, performing a job, in most cases, in a multifunctional way, and making these activities compatible with other major work. Man, you guys fell out of the ass, less bad!: "We consider it necessary to maintain all support for professionals working in the Greek field and, in particular, for those doing so in part-time." We totally agree with what you put here. "We understand that it is a way to do so through the CAP aid, given, moreover, that in Galicia not all the beneficiaries of the CAP have a total commitment to agriculture." We totally agree. You've been late for many years. Since you are the CAP managers until today, where are these measures that you propose here? Why haven't they done it before? "That's why, given the reality of the Greek field, it's necessary to continue protecting this kind of worker." I totally agree. Now, the question is, what have you guys done for that kind of worker so far? Tell me here, in the second round, concrete measures that you have so far taken to protect these kinds of workers. In the resolution of its non-legislative proposal: "The Galician Parliament urges the Union to maintain support for professionals working in the part-time field"—to see what support is, because we have so far had little support—, "and how to push how many measures are needed". They no longer expose here or the first measure to encourage and protect their activity in the Greek field. You're here to talk about a non-law proposition for part-time workers in the field and you're almost done talking about Ence. See, active farmers must be defined by the Member State in such a way as to ensure that they are not given to those whose agricultural activity constitutes only a small part of their general economic activities, without leaving out the support of pluriactive farmers. In any case, the definition must preserve the European Union's family farming model. Individual or group nature, regardless of its size, may take into account, where appropriate, the special characteristics of the regions defined in Article 355. Member States could leave out of this definition those persons or companies which carry out large-scale processing of agricultural products with the exception of groups of farmers. This is the definition currently being discussed in the European Parliament for the new CAP. As you can see, you don't exclude the multi-actives anymore. You never bet on this kind of agriculture. You have always been opposed to the transformation within the exploitation of several products. So that sudden interest now gives you some thought. And he thinks about why they're talking about maintaining support that never existed. Here you try to recognize part-time farmers in the new CAP. Welcome to what they haven't done before. His final thoughts tell them they really filled me up and arrived, I share them completely. What we don't understand is why they haven't done it until now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u353	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u354	The spokesperson for the BNG said: the problem is based on hectares, which are also excluded sectors such as the garden sector, viticulture, fruit production, etc. We are not going to vote against your initiative, because we cannot vote against something that is clearly better; now, it would be appreciated, for future initiatives, that were a little more concrete and more specific and not to come here to this House...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u355	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u356	...do the electoral campaign. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u357	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez. Mr. Blanco Paradelo has the floor on the author group of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u358	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, listening to the tone of the different voices, it was less bad that this was an initiative that had a good intention and less bad that this was an initiative that they shared; it even says that the words came from him. So, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez, I don't know why you're upset. But above all, what I don't know is, if you thought it was such a vague initiative of content, why didn't you take it. Perhaps they walk with a lot of trouble; well, I understand it, I understand it. But, man, when a critic that initiative has little content, what he has to do is put his alternative, and the alternative is to take, read...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u359	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u360	The alternative you did was read my explanatory statement, which you liked, and say we didn't do anything. I appreciate that good consideration. I mean, I've got several things made clear to myself. First, I was talking about two positions clearly and I have no doubt that you are in the group first, that is, in the pessimistic vision. Also, remind me of that successful television series, that of the first American factory, those wonderful years, that we're still installed in it. And you -- I insist -- think talking about the countryside is going well in the election. And we don't, we want to talk about the countryside and the welfare of Galicia. That's the difference we have with you. So we've got it clear. It also became very clear to me that none of the speakers made any kind of comment in this case to the controversy of extension with Ence and the loss of the five thousand jobs and to the eighty thousand families who would no longer have income. [[Murmurs.]] No, but...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u361	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u362	...it's an important time to stand up. And, Mr. Rivas, we haven't come here to defend neither the Ence nor the eucalyptus, to defend the workers, five thousand workers and eighty thousand families. And you, no. [[Applause]] You guys, so friends who are always adjectives and titles, I'm going to say, you're predators, but job predators in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u363	Quiet, quiet. Mr. Rivas, be quiet. Quiet, quiet, everybody. Silence, there is one Member who is speaking. Quiet, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u364	I don't know why they want to be ashamed of the German forest sector. Why do you want to be ashamed of being leaders? I don't know, I don't know why they want to be ashamed of what works well, they want to end this and then ask for help on the other side. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, I didn't interrupt anyone...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u365	Wait a minute, Mr. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u366	Mr. Rivas, what offends the least...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u367	Mr. Blanco, excuse me for a moment. The truth is, you're absolutely right about the world. This is where everyone heard... [[Mr. Blanco Paradelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Please, I'm talking, see if I'm interrupting myself now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u368	That's what he's got...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u369	I told you to wait a moment, Mr. Blanco. [[Murmurs.]] Silence and listen to Mr. Blanco; though he also interrupts, hear him carefully, for before he did not interrupt and heard you all carefully. So, please whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u370	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to say that they're also in that group of alarming and exaggerating everything with half-truths or half-truths. I also wanted to tell Mr Rivas and his fellow Member that he was using himself massively eucalyptus in much of the regeneration of burned areas. I'm telling you to go to trial and stop alarming and stop saying barbarities and nonsense, and we'll see when the forest inventory comes out if you're right. And finally, Mr President, saying: we are not going to accept the amendment, basically because we believe it has little or nothing to do with our initiative, and if I want to remind Mr Rivas, who says about the wrong policies of the Council, obviating all that has been done in these two years, that you, in the Committee of Study, in recommendation No. 12, which was to promote the development and regulation of Law No. 7/2012, of mountains, and Law No. 4/2015, of improvement of the agricultural structure, voted against and also voted against against encouraging joint formulations of the mountain. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u371	Thank you very much, Mr. Blanco. We suspended the session until... [[Mr. Rivas Cruz asks for the floor.]] Tell me, Mr. Rivas, why do you want the use of the word?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u372	Article 76, 71, one of those articles. Let's see, he just said something... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u373	No, but...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u374	It's a lie what you just said and I demand that you withdraw...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u375	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u376	...his words. This Member has never stated that the areas burned with eucalyptus have been re-sealed. I demand that you remove those words because I'm a shame, what you're used to doing usually; that's true too. But well, but now... [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u377	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u378	I want you to report it, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u379	It's been clarified. Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u380	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u381	We'll stop the session until the next day. [[Mr. Blanco Paradelo asks for the floor.]] Mr. Blanco, why do you want... I don't know how much, do I? Tell me. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u382	In Article 76, too, to clarify Mr. Rivas and not be too angry. What he usually does is throw out the stone and then hide his hand, but I'll read, intercomposed, two sentences. According to the nationalist Euro MP, the Greek Government is not transparent in the use of these funds and "we can only see the result of its use: the massive employment of the eucalyptus in much of the regeneration of the burned areas". Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-04-26-DSPG107.u383	Well, it's already clear that it wasn't Mr. Rivas. Thank you very much.
