ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u1	Good morning. We resumed the meeting, with the sixth item on the agenda, which is questions for oral reply by the President of the Union. Before, allow me to greet the students of 1st Bachelor's degree from the Manuel Peleteiro College of Santiago, who accompany us today. Welcome to Parliament. His teachers, too. And, of course, a greeting also to all the guests who accompany us today from the rostrum. Let's get started. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Villares Naveira, G.P. Joint, on the adequacy of the resources allocated by the Government of Greece to the fight against the feminist, climate and social emergencies of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u2	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u3	Good morning, gentlemen. Mr President, we want to ask you if you think that the economic and social situation in Galicia is as good as it is that in the budgets this year you are going to lower taxes on the richest people in Galicia, as you did last year. The evolution of the gross domestic product in the last year is less than the Spanish average. It is also the same with job creation, which is inferior too, in an evolution since the end of the economic recession, to the Spanish average, with a job creation which is also more precarious, with lower wages and with greater temporality. All of this, in addition, in a context of Galicia's industrial decline, which gives rise to the drop in industrial production in Galicia, while the Spanish average continues to increase. This gives rise to a series of social consequences that are undeniable and that put us in a situation that for some is of real social emergency. We have an AROPE rate of 23% of Galician citizenship that is at risk of poverty or social exclusion; there are approximately 34,700 unemployed homes, there are 14,300 people who are receiving a Risk and there are approximately 670,000 people who get income under the 9,000 gross euros per year. This, in addition, is linked to a situation that relates to the character of gender is further sharpened, creating a true feminist emergency. The employment temporality rate in women is higher than in men, the part-time in most women's part-time, the pay gap is 29%, and most women under 44 are at risk. All of this, in addition, in a context where we continue to fail to meet our environmental and climate commitments in relation to a fair ecological transition. Well, in all this context, Mr President, with all that is falling, the best economic policy of the People's Party is to lower the taxes to the rich? I want to ask you about three specific taxes: the property tax, which dropped last year, and your intention to lower the inheritance tax and the purchase tax to the second residence, of summer. As far as wealth tax is concerned, a year ago you dropped the property tax to six thousand richest people in Galicia. He always defends himself by saying that they put the tax as he was when you found it, because it went up during the crisis and now it's right to put it down. Do you think it's fair to lower tax to six thousand richest people in Galicia while 23 percent of its population remains at risk of poverty or social exclusion? Secondly, with regard to succession tax, you announced that 99% of the population will no longer pay the inheritance tax. This means that those who inherit between EUR 400,000 and EUR 1,000,000, who used to pay taxes, will now stop doing so. Do you consider it fair — and anyone who is listening to us will be able to share our opinion — that who can leave a child to the head up to 1,000,000 euros doesn't have to pay anything and that all of this happens until the resources for health care arrive with enough ambulances to care for emergencies like in the Ten or that there are not enough health personnel in emergency services? Finally, you also announced a measure that was to encourage the purchase of houses in less populated areas of Galicia. Under this excuse — and I'm finished now, Mr. President — people want to lower taxes so that people buy summer houses on most of the coast of Galicia, and between it in municipalities like Barriers, like Perbes, like Mine, like Grove and like on the island of Arousa. Is it fair to lower taxes to people who have enough to buy a summer house while — and are official data from the Galician Union — there are thirteen thousand people who, in meeting the requirements for access to a public housing, can't access it because the Galician Union does not make housing policies? Is this fair, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u4	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Villares, I understand that the position of the Mixed Group is a limited position, and you try in a question to play a series of considerations, and also considerations that are not even formulated in the question. Probably what you just did here is try to do a debate in the state of Autonomy; I'd be glad to repeat it again. You talk about equality, about the situation of women, you talk about dealing with the consequences of climate change, you talk about the strategies of people in social exclusion, and then you give us a kind of financial and tax law. It's not easy, Your Honor, trying to answer all this. I suppose you're just trying to say that it exists, and I think it's reasonable, because it really does. Look, Your Honor, you should review the data, because the poverty risk rate in Galicia is 18.8%, i.e. 2.7 less than the Spanish average. Galicia is among the five autonomous communities whose poverty rate is lower than it was when we arrived at the Government in 2008. That's why I'm surprised at your criticism. The risk rate of poverty and social exclusion, the AROPE indicator, of what you tell me, according to INE, in Galicia is 23%, actually 3 points less than the average of Spain, and again we are one of five autonomous communities across Spain whose AROPE rate of poverty is lower than we had when we arrived in the Government. I don't know exactly what his criticism consists of. I suppose you're upset that we're better today than when we get to the government, when the Bipartite ruled. Look, Your Honor, today we can say -- and there's any kind of rate -- that in Galicia there are fewer people who have been sick since we have official statistics. That is the result, Your Honor, of a new Act of inclusion, of a Risga where we are investing 64 million euros — before investing 22—; of twelve measures to eliminate the challenges of rejection; of energy saving measures, which are above the average of autonomous communities; and a new Risga decree. Besides, to a single pact and social agenda, with all the organizations that care about them, just like us, social problems. When she talks to me about equality and women, do you know that there are more women working and sharing social security today than ever in Galicia? More than quintuple thousand women affiliated with Social Security who have never been in Galicia. Do you know, Your Honor, that in Galicia there is a lower rate of female unemployment, higher rates of activity and female employment and lower rates of female employment than in the rest of Spain? I suppose you'll know, because, if you don't, coming here with this kind of approach is a little surprising. Which does not mean, Your Honor, that there are no pockets of poverty, that there is still inequality in women's employment, which means that we have to keep working. Your Honor, you speak in addition to tax policy. Does it seem bad to you that in the matter of succession, for example, we have the same taxation as the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party in Andalusia? Is that right? I mean, what was the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party doing in Andalusia with the exemption of 1,000,000 euros per son, is that right, Your Honor? Is the Socialist Party's taxation fair? Yeah? Obviously, ladies and gentlemen, then, naturally, you have a problem from the next few hours intensely. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But, in any case, Your Honor, what I am telling you is that, in the area of heritage, the community that raised the tax of heritage was this community and this government. When I arrived at the Government, the property tax was lower. We took it up, and now it turns out we left it as it was when we got to the government. Do you remember what you said, the left-wing ones, that lower taxes were left-handed?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u7	Are you sure you're back for that old man or not? And finally, to criticize here that rural tax policy is a policy that benefits the rich is simply not to know Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u9	Mr President, I am here to talk to you about the emergencies that Galicia is experiencing, the feminist emergency, the social emergency, the environmental emergency. He complains that I'm here to talk about Galician problems. Well, of course we've seen him talk about Galician problems, and we've also seen him talk to him like this by telling him something, telling him that those problems could help with more resources. And what you're doing with your tax policy is refusing to have enough resources to be able to properly respond to these emergencies. Still giving your data, that the AROPE rate is 18%, that's what? Sixty thousand Welsh people living at risk of poverty or social exclusion? Doesn't it seem enough to you six hundred thousand Galicians and Greeks to prevent that situation, that this data prevents you from lowering your tax to the richest people in Galicia? Because, look! we're talking — and I would like the reply to deepen in that situation — of the three tax reductions to the richest people in Galicia by those ways I have just commented on. You are acknowledging — I did so in the last part of the question — that yes, there is still inequality in the employment of women, and that yes, there are still pockets of poverty in Galicia. All right, because you get enough resources from those who have the most, the most, to be able to make economic and social policies that reduce inequalities, both gender and social. Because he's in his hands and he has resources that he's giving up for this reason. Look, you're talking about whether we think it's fair or unfair that between 400,000 euros and 1,000,000 per child is now no longer taxing. Yes, it seems unfair to us, and it seems to us that the Socialist Party has done so in Andalusia or Cochinchina, it seems unfair to us. As we also find it unfair to tell you that if you put the property tax on them as it was, as if the whole crisis had passed, as if there were no problems here. As long as there are problems, as long as there is a lack of health care, as long as there is a lack of staff to care for dependence, as long as there are inequalities, the rich cannot be forgiven all that money. And as for the taxes you say in rural, Barriers, the Town Hall of Barriers, the Town Hall of Perbes, the Town Hall of Mine, the island of Arousa, The Grove, are municipalities that need a stimulus to buy a summer chalet to the people you have most, while there are thirteen thousand people who have no right to access a decent housing despite being registered and meeting legal requirements according to the Galician Institute of Living and Solo? Is this all fair? Why do we have to forgive the whole of society the tax on the richest while the rest of the people can't properly satisfy their social needs? Why doesn't Junta assume its powers to reduce inequalities? Can't you see that the inequalities here are increasing as a result of the refusal to raise the income of those who have the most? We want tax justice so that social justice can be done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u10	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u11	I don't complain, Your Honor, about what you want to ask me, even what you want to improvise; I'm already used to all this; what if I tell you is that when you want to talk about tax policy I'm at your disposal. Do you know that the income tax rate of physical persons in Galicia for lower incomes is more favourable than the average of all autonomous communities in the state? You should know not to say we lower taxes to high incomes. No, Your Honor, this government has been characterized and characterized by lower taxes on rents, Your Honor. Yes, Your Honor, yes. [[Applause]] In the property tax, high incomes pay the same as in the two-party government. In the income tax, low incomes pay less than in the two-party government. That is the summary of the tax policy of the Autonomous Community. And now talking about rural, but is it really wrong for you to try to encourage people to buy rural homes? 93% of Galician territory is rural, and is it wrong to lower taxes on all those who want to invest in rural areas? Well, look, it looks good on us. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You, raising taxes in rural areas, and we, lowering taxes in rural areas. That's an absolutely different way of understanding life. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, when you talk about GDP and all these things, in Galicia, per capita GDP has risen by 4% since 2018; in Spain, by 3.2%. Galicia is the autonomous community that has most converged into per capita income in Spain in the last decade. So a little respect for the truth. Not bad, Mr. Villares. On gender equality index — what you're talking about — the Royal Academy of Economic and Financial Sciences: Galicia is the community with the least inequality between women and men in the labour market — I leave you this fact that I'm sure you simply don't or don't want to have it, or you don't want to read it. Your Honor, nobody says it's enough, but saying that Galicia is the worst, when it turns out it's the best, that's indeed a maximum fallacy, Your Honor; that's a maximum fallacy. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Your Honor, come and talk to me, just say climate change. You don't care about climate change. And, in fact, in the proposal on climate change that was discussed in Parliament in the debate of the state of Autonomy voted in favour of the People's Party, the Socialist Party and the BNG abstained and you voted against. Your Honor, you voted against declaring the state of climate emergency in Galicia, as this party proposed in the debate of the state of Autonomy. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] We have a strategy of climate change, we are one of four autonomous communities in Spain that has it. You don't say anything about it either. We have just announced, Your Honor, that we are going to propose a first strategic plan of Galicia against trafficking for sexual exploitation. That is to work on specific issues, specific data, concrete proposals and concrete plans. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, I already know that this divine left bothers you that some of us adhere to ecology, equality of women and men and social policies. They think you have the exclusiveness of these attitudes and proposals. This government has made every effort ever since it arrived by these collectives, of course, and by these social problems. Today there are more women working in Galicia than ever. That is a fact that you — if you were really a Galician to whom Galicia is interested — should celebrate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u12	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u13	But do we really not celebrate that today there are five thousand women affiliated with Social Security more than ever in our history? Doesn't that sound good to you, Your Honor? [[Applause]] In any case, Mr. Villares, I congratulate you because you keep your wrist and also maintain such a fruitful dialogue as we have just maintained. We are interested — as well as you — in inequality, in climate change.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u14	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u15	...and we're interested in people who hurt him. Let's continue to work, Mr. Villares, but don't ask such questions a strict approach to the real and economic situation of the country and keep working to improve it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u16	Thank you, President. Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u17	I think that's a good plan. Nothing else, Mr. President. [[Applause]] He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Antón Sánchez García of the G.P. Group of the Left, on the forecasts of the German Government regarding the impact on policies that cause the abandonment of the rural environment
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u18	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u19	Good morning, Mr. Feijó. I believe that the country's situation and its policies should not allow it to give advice to others but rather focus on its work. Let me start by telling you that you are the champion of the destruction of industrial employment. One hundred Isobar workers go to the streets because of their disability or because they prefer to please...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u20	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u21	...to Escotet before defending the workers. It closes a viable company because it doesn't have a government at its height. What have you done not to conquer what the Board of Castile and Lion has already conquered, which is to guarantee the future to a viable company? Will you shut up again or will you tell us something, Mr. Feijóo? On the other hand, the director of What Burns, Oliver Laxe, said: what happened in rural was a holocaust; in this way he defines the process of emptying and extermination of rural. Do you share these words, Mr Feijóo? The data is there for those who want to see them: abandonment, aging and polio, favored by their black decade, by the dismantling of the public, by a productive model for the benefit of extractive companies, and by the breakdown of their policies of land management, forestry and agriculture. Cannot reverse the current trend towards abandonment without a strong bet by the public. You can't reverse this trend by closing schools, taking doctors, pediatricians, or leaving without making the necessary day centers. This trend cannot be reversed by eliminating agricultural office technicians or researchers from agricultural research centres. For you, Mr. Feijóo, our rural area is a continuation of some of the businesses; you, as a vicar of multinationals, use the DOG to make others win what the common people lose. The windman could bring work and prosperity to our countryside, respecting people and our heritage; it could be so if you hadn't given up the wind and land so that the foreign capital would do business at the expense of everyone. But you don't always win. In the Oribian, the complaints of the social groups have just stopped their feet and paralyzed that aberration, those collectives who do the work that you should do, defend the territory, as did citizenship 17 years ago with the Prestige. And it's also the example of how Ence, who is rather popular leaders in the board of directors, is the one who directs forest policy and turns ours into a forest model that creates little employment and wealth and generates a lot of impacts. In addition to the weakening of the public, the policy of extractive companies, their policies have been a real failure. The star measure of administrative management for rural areas, the merger of municipalities, two in a decade. In the joint mountain management bet, forest-building companies have been able to form ten in ten years; they manage 1,389 hectares, 0.01% of the forest area, Mr Feijóo. Fiasco in soil management. We lost four times more useful agrarian surface than the average state. You promised to end in this legislation the 121 ongoing partial concentration processes, and once again you will violate your promise. And with this picture, the Rural Council, losing nineteen thousand jobs in the agricultural sector in the last ten years, leaves 116 million euros unimplemented in 2018. The failure of your policies, Mr. Feijóo, turns into a problem what might be a chance. We have to create opportunities for the people of our country, and to achieve that goal, People's Party gentlemen, you are a problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u22	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. After this Apocalypse Now in the rural Greek, I don't understand very well what your question is. Yes, I understand perfectly well that you seem to have failed to realize that the election campaign was over. Now it's going to start something much more serious than the election campaign. I suppose you've already decided to close the bridges and close the Ence. It would be good, Your Honor, because now you have it in your hand. Will The Bridges be closed and Ence closed? Yes or no? Second question: are you really going to give Navantia a job and keep Alcoa? Yes or no? [[Murmurs.]] No, Your Honor, if it's all right here! If I'm not worried about anything.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u24	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u25	It's just a chronicle written, of course, of a bad script. Look, debate on the state of Autonomy, proposals from the Left in Common on rural? None. Of forty proposals that we can make for each of the groups, this gentleman and his group does nothing, none! [[Murmurs.]] The rural left in Common doesn't exist. [[Murmurs.]] But in addition to the fact that it doesn't exist, every time there are general elections, or autonomous elections, or municipal elections, and the People's Party wins sharply in the vast majority of rural councils, you criticize because you don't know what the rural people are voting for. Look, Mr. Antonio, with all due respect, we dedicate ourselves to the countryside. You know why? Because we were born in it. You know why? Because we're still managing the vast majority of rural municipalities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u26	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u27	No, no, Your Honor, here are some great statesmen from the Left in Common who don't care about rural things. If you like, read what you think of those political leaders from the countryside. Look, we've dedicated ourselves to making buses...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u28	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u29	...and making high-capacity pathways so that 80% of the Greeks are less than fifteen minutes away from a high-capacity track, benefiting from rural vertebration. We are dedicated to metropolitan transport so that rural people can take, for example, school buses and have new roads and new routes in rural transport. We've dedicated ourselves to putting old-age residences and schools and foster homes and homes of the largest in the municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants, because the former governments were not interested. We are interested in lowering taxes in rural areas and then being criticized by their former associates. A potato is not paid for buying, selling or permuting in the country. More than 300 thousand Greeks have benefited from these zero-tax policies in rural areas, which do not exist anywhere in Spain. Look, Your Honor, we were worried because when we arrived to the Government the province of Lugo and Ourense had no broadband coverage, and today 98% of the Greeks have coverage. And we have to keep working, Your Honor, because we need more quality in that cover.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u30	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u31	We are concerned, Your Honor, to do programmes like rural Aprol and give employment to more than a thousand workers in rural areas, for the simplification of wood cuts, for the Forest Industry Agency — which did not exist — and for the creation of micro parks in rural areas. We're worried about the countryside, Your Honor. And, for example — see — in eco-agriculture, we have multiplied the area of eco-agriculture by six. As for wine, we increased our export by 20% and our production by more than 30%. We're the second power in canneries -- the rural is also sea, right? --...of the world, and we export more fishing than Japan. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, we are concerned about rural areas, and there are hundreds of proposals and specific issues. We have reached agreement with the municipalities to improve the cleaning of the farms, we are going to make a window estate — and we will invite you — in the village of Quián, in Sergude, in Boqueixon, owned by the Autonomous Community. And new quality stamps: cow, beef and bread. And we have a milk strategy. By the way...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u32	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u33	...we never produced as much milk as now and never invested in the dairy industry as ever. Ladies and gentlemen, really, what are we accused of? To work for the countryside? We'll keep working hard. We will continue to focus our rural policy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u34	Thank you. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u35	We believe that rural life exists and there is also because it is the DNA of the Greeks, and as is our DNA, Mr. Antonio, we don't do demagoxy with the rural life. We work; you, unfortunately, bring here a chronicle of an announced death.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u36	Thank you, President. Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u37	Will you support the Law of Recovery and Valued...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u38	It's over, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u39	...of the land, Mr. Anton?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u40	Time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u41	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u42	Replica, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u43	We're going very well, Mr. Feijó. Looks like you're asking the government questions. He used to get used to it. [[Murmurs.]] You, Mr. Feijóo, ask about the Ence and the Bridges. I ask him: will you continue to deal with Vox, with that racist force, xenophobic... - yes, yes......and machist? [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u44	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u45	And I ask you, Mr. Feijó:
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u46	Quiet. Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u47	I don't know if I'm a party, the so-called People's Party, that deals with Vox whenever he can...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u48	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u49	...a racist and xenophobic force.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u50	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u51	Please answer if you're going to deal with Vox. And you also say, 'cause you're asking about the Bridges and the Ence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u52	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u53	...you, who have competences in economic policy, what are your alternatives, Mr. Feijóo? Because you're still President of the Galician Union. Then I was talking about the window estate. True, their policies are a window; behind the window is nothing, Mr. Feijóo, there is nothing. [[Murmurs.]] He couldn't answer the data I gave him, because he can't; I'm a fiasco his policies, I'm a fiasco!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u54	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u55	What happens in rural is no coincidence, Mr. Feijóo. It is a process of cultural, social and environmental destruction in which its policies are protagonists. Speculative business is its north. One more example is the ball you're going to give or intend to give to Mr. Mouriño in Mos by recalibrating 950 acres of forests, expropriating the municipality, to hand them over to Mr. Mouriño to install a one hundred and forty thousand square meters commercial center. That's their conception of rural life: getting people out of town and doing business for a few; that's a good example. He's been cutting public services all the time in these years. There are young people who, having economically profitable activities, get out and escape the countryside because they don't have those public services for them or their children. You always said that one of the main problems of the Greek mountain was the fragmentation of property and created the forest development societies disk to solve this problem. I've already given him the data, it's a real fiasco. Mr. Feijóo, you have no alternatives, you have no solution for that. We've lost the useful agricultural surface in this country four times as much as the average state, while we're importing nine hundred million euros of food every year...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u56	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u57	...and while the fires engulf our country, Mr. Feijóo. You promised to finish the partial mergers in this legislation, and you won't do it; a promise no longer met; you mind. You may be allowed to say that research is very important for the Galician agribusiness, but at the main agricultural research centre in Galicia, the center of Mabegondo, of 22 research squares, are 11 vacancies, Mr. Feijóo. You can talk a lot about DNA, with that ludicrous logic that people born in rurals defend the rural as president of the Union. Give me that logic and make me that you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u58	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u59	...you can't have any more solid arguments than those. Mr. Feijóo, he says he supports rural people and, on the other hand, he's dismantling all the local agricultural offices. He says he supports rural people, zero taxes in rural, Mr. Feijóo. People are laughing. Ask the rural people how much you've been raising in the years that you rule the receipt of the IBI, the IVE, the water, and the electricity, measures decided by the People's Party in Madrid, Mr. Feijóo... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u60	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u61	...and you'll see what they call...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u62	Quiet, please. Finish it, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u63	...in relation to the services they now have with respect to ten years ago, which pay a lot more taxes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u64	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Sánchez, tell you that I have to get used to asking questions to the Government. What if I can assure you, Your Honor, is that I from some governments would never be part of it. It's worth anything to you; not to us, Your Honor. We're not worth anything, because we have a commitment to the Greeks. [[Murmurs.]] When you ask me what I have to do or what is my proposal of Ence, of course, Your Honor: keep it; yes, keep it; keep it, keep it, but we don't find a suitable place to move it. That's our proposal and you planted it in case at some point you have some responsibility — high enough — in the next Government of Spain, which is going to be a fantastic government, Your Honor. But, in any case, what surprises me is what you propose to me about tax matters, that we raise the IBI and water, two municipal taxes, two municipal taxes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The property tax and water are two municipal taxes that... [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u66	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u67	...the tides went up whenever they could, Your Honor, increasing the tax pressure on everyone. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Vázquez, Your Honor, you don't even know it's the city hall that puts the IBI in every county. I'm not surprised, Your Honor, that you're not interested in the rural tax.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u68	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u69	Look, Your Honor, we've been in government for ten years, we already have our biography, you already have yours. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Lugo and Ourense are the provinces with the largest per capita investment in Galicia, year after year, nine hundred euros more per inhabitant in Lugo and Ourense than in the Atlantic provinces. Debate of the State of Autonomy, proposals from the Left to the Common for Rural, zero. The ones who voted in favour? [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] One we deal with with PSOE. All those from the PP? None. To promote a wider provision of services in all the municipalities of the Italian countryside. Left-wing vote in common? On the contrary. Mobilize in the Land Bank 170,000 hectares necessary, a transaction with the BNG. Voting from your group? On the contrary. Milk sector, 24% more production increase in the dairy sector. The wine sector, 37% more production in the wine sector. Cowmeat, 3,000 tons more a year's worth of beef in Galicia. And now we're supposed to be what? Partial concentration, 104 open partial restructuring processes that we will end in this legislation. Yes, Mr. Sánchez. But look, I'm going to summarize your group's thinking about rural. Let me quote. Rural Galicia is a distorted idea that is sold for electoral purposes. I'm still. That Galicia is eminently urban. And third, most of the population lived on the Atlantic axis and the country's wealth thrived around urban areas. This is the proposal from the Left to the Common on the Italian countryside. I quote one of your leaders, he's more, one of the most sensible leaders he's got. Is this what the Left Group in Common feels about rural? Look, ladies, I don't know how dare you go in the countryside. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u70	Thank you, President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Gonzalo Caballero Míguez, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the forecasts of the Council of Galicia regarding the change of their policies to the cities of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u71	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u72	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Feijó, allow me to make a little clarification to be rigorous when the figures are given in this parliamentary chamber. There's nothing more to go to the Galego Institute of Statistics page to see what the numbers of the female population occupied in Galicia in the last decade. And the data is public and notorious. Here are students who can be in college in a few months, and they need to be given the rigor of data when they study economic matters. You see, in 2008 in Galicia there were 500.028 women working; in 2009, 524,600; in 2018, 515,000. The last data, last quarter, the third of 2019, is 520,300. It wasn't the most historic, while in Spain there are more women working today than ten years ago. In Spain, yes; in Galicia, no. Be rigorous with the data. Look, Mr. Feijóo, I want to tell you that Galicia of the future is a Galicia that has to count on both the rural environment and urban Galicia, that we need territorial vertebration in the public policies of the Galician Union, and that involves both making policies that support and boost the rural environment as well as policies that dynamic and manage to connect with urban Galician, the hottest Galician, which has to be a tractor for the economic and social development of our country. The Galician Union lacks a territorial planning strategy. In eleven years of government you lack any kind of planning, strategy, planning that has to do with the economic geography of our territory and, specifically, with the economic geography of the cities. Urban policy is not a sum of different policies of advisers, it is necessary to have a territorial planning so that the urban areas of Galicia can have momentum, and that means connecting all the infrastructure, public services, sanitation, policies of R & D+i, human capital, territorial planning, because Galicia needs support from the rural environment, but needs to be led by urban Galicia. And in eleven years of government in front of the Galician Union you didn't connect with the urban Galician. The People's Party emerged from urban Galicia. That's why you don't rule in any of the seven great cities of Greece, so every time there's elections the Greeks who live in the cities suspend the People's Party palm and radical. [[Murmurs.]] So, Mr. Feijóo, the only partner you have in urban Galicia is the mayor of Ourense, he is your reference partner when he talks about political pacts, the one you considered lethal to the city of Ourense. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And those who were lethal to the cities of Galicia were the years of government of the People's Party, their eleven years of government in front of the Unity of Galicia. Galicia needs a government that has the ability to connect with that urban Galicia, which has the ability to jump into the future of our country, to push urban Galicia as a tractor mechanism. What are your policies for changing the isolation that has given cities? What are your policies to connect with an urban citizenship that sees you as a problem and your government as an enemy of urban Galicia? Change your policies and plan the economic and territorial geography with the impulse of urban policies, because it is necessary in Galicia of the future to have an urban impulse also from Galicia. Thank you very much, Mr. Feijó.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u73	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Taking advantage of the students and students from one of the best schools in Spain, for which I congratulate you, you should not take the hair away from this camera, but also from the students who are here. You're talking about EPA, I've been talking about memberships to Social Security. You are not rigorous, Mr. Knight. [[Murmurs.]] I spoke of social security affiliations, five thousand women affiliated, the record of female employment membership in Galicia; memberships of social security. [[Applause]] But, in any case, Your Honor, as you are a very rigorous person, we have just heard what the alternative is. For the former spokesperson, of the Left Joint Group, we neglect rural areas; we have an effort focused on cities, neglecting rural areas. And the Socialist Party's proposal is that we neglect cities and that cities are the hub and, indeed, the country's future. [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, future menu awaits Galicia with you somewhere, Your Honor! Little joke, little joke you just moved!, no continuity solution, eh!, this in real time. [[Applause]] Look, I think we're going to be understanding with you today, because I'm sure you, like 95% of the Spaniards, couldn't sleep tonight. We know, Your Honor, that this isn't going to end well, but the sad thing is that it couldn't get any worse. [[Murmurs.]] They don't bother to conceal themselves anymore, they just take their hair all over the country for six months — that if I can sleep, that if I can't sleep, who would leave the keys?, to anyone but Paul -- and now it turns out, Your Honor... you owe all the Greeks and all the Spaniards an apology. [[Laughter]] Yes, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] Two weeks ago you were talking about nothing more and nothing less, of course, that they would win the elections again — they lost — and about political centrality. Today about political centrality his silence is horrifying, clamoring, clamoring, Mr. Caballero. [[Applause]] Look, yesterday you signed two things: a government in Spain that we don't know how many months it will last and not rule Galicia for many years. That's your statement yesterday at the Congress of Deputies. Look, if the Greeks already knew that this government and this political and institutional stability in Galicia is well worth it, from what they will come they will realize that political stability, political centrality and the common sense of the Greeks will be far superior to these pacts against the nature of the Socialist Party with any, Your Honor, with any. That's why you don't care to say anything but the opposite! Mr. Caballero's political centrality now turns out to be changing and it's the centrality he needs in order to be able to rule Spain, with someone he fired, insulted and criticized for six months on, with those who said "in no case will we rule with them" and for six months they've had us in absolute instability, other elections, and in forty-eight hours they've left with no effect what you said since we've had knowledge...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u75	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u76	...and hear. Look, Mr. Knight, this deserves clarification. First of all, excuse yourself in this chamber, don't talk about political centrality again; and please don't take our hair between rural and urban. It can't be that a government doesn't care for rural people and at the same time doesn't care for urban people. That's impossible, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u77	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u78	No, no, the Greeks don't say that when they're consulted, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u79	Quiet. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u80	You're still living in the mutes, in the worlds...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u81	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u82	You keep so focused...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u83	Please finish, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u84	You remain so focused, you remain so coherent and don't worry, Your Honor, that the Greeks keep us standing. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u85	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Feijóo, you made a magnificent balance of your government, you showed today how you abandoned the rural environment in Galicia and how you didn't have the ability to lead urban policies. That's the reality of a country, a country that knows that the government of the People's Party in the Union is going to be less and that it has no capacity or ability to push more dynamic urban Galicia or to give a future to a rural Galicia that is getting more empty. It is their suspension, and of course it suspends in urban policy and of course it suspends in rural policy, because it has no guidance or plans for the country. You are simply in the policy of confrontation and do not listen to the Greeks, Mr Feijóo. You see, 54% of the Greeks and the Greeks voted again this Sunday for a progressive left-wing government, just like in April, Mr. Feijóo. [[Murmurs.]] Listen to a Welsh citizen who voted clearly...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u87	Quiet. Excuse me a moment. Quiet, please. The spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group is speaking. Quiet. No, Mr. Vega, you already have a call. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u88	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Feijóo, to be President of the Union and to connect with citizenship, we must listen to the citizens' vows. The votes of the Socialist Party, the votes of the progressive forces were votes that amounted to 54%, and the votes of the right with the extreme right in Galicia, of the three coalition forces that rule where the numbers are given, those forces reached 44% of the votes; the same level they had in April. You just succeeded in sucking part of the vote of the sinking of Citizens. That's the reality of a country that clearly wants to progress and wants to move forward, and I wanted an agreement in Spain to have a government of progress and progress, in the face of the risk that this People's Party that abandoned centrality would be our country. Of course we are the centrality, because we are the left of Galicia, but we are the political centrality because we represent most of the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Murmurs.]] The centrality of 55% who don't want to see either Casado or its members from the far right controlling Spain, and who don't want a president from Galicia who makes a cynical speech, who says one thing one day and another, but who, when the People's Party has agreed with Vox in Andalusia, you said, Mr. Feijóo, that this pact could support anyone. You do; we, with the far right, no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u89	Thank you, Mr. Knight. The President's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u90	All right. I really don't know who the Socialist Party Tezanos is in Galicia, but keep an eye on them, don't have the enemy in the house. [[Laughter]] After listening to him today, even after listening to him on Sunday night, there are more and more Germans asking themselves, "What world do you live in, Mr. Knight?" We are in Galicia, we are Greeks, we live here, we work here and we defend the Greeks. The PSOE was certainly the most voted list in Spain. In Galicia it was the People's Party. The PSOE in Galicia has fallen more than the Socialist Party in Spain and the PP in Galicia has risen more than the rest of the People's Parties in Spain. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look at lordship, of forty-two acts in the General Courts, the People's Party has twenty-three, and you, fifteen. Instead of bringing a prefabricated intervention, it is done that it would be good for you, Your Honor, if you had done another type of intervention in this parliament. [[Murmurs.]] Look, you have to be humble in victory. You weren't in April. What's pathetic is being superb in defeat, Mr. Knight. That's pathetic, pathetic. [[Applause]] You, euphoric, Mr. Caballero, in one of the three autonomous communities of Spain where the PP won the elections. What if you won these elections? Humility, Mr. Knight, in victory, and when you lose, please don't make the ridiculous. You have to be humble when you win, and never make a fool of yourself. [[Laughter]] I can assure you. Look, the Greek agenda is there, presented to it regardless of who voted, who won, the Greek agenda is there, the problems of the Greeks are there, and we're going to continue to defend the problems of the Greeks against any political party that governs Spain. Look, here comes a party that has no Members in Parliament, no Provincial Members, no single conciliator in the country. Are you here to talk about this? And tell me I don't know about a pact with a party that says the same thing as you: the goal is to throw beans. You agree, Your Honor. I understand perfectly well that he had made a tenant in the rally he gave here in Galicia, because they have the same objective, which is to throw the Beech. [[Laughter]] But the problem is not Feijóo, Your Honor. The problem is the Greeks we have rights and we are going to defend them, and Mr. Feijóo is an additional Greek who will always defend Galician interests, Your Honor. [[Applause]] I have no commitments but to defend Galician interests, no one else, Your Honor. You speak of extremes, when it turns out that they will demand the vote of the BNG, beg the vote of the BNG in the Congress of Deputies. Yes, Your Honor, they will demand the vote of the BNG. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, live to see. BNG, Bildu and left Republican will be their partners. That's pure political centrality, Mr. Knight. [[Laughter]] What I do tell you, Your Honor, is that the Union is free and will remain free. We will defend the interests of the Greeks above any political party, even mine. And we will always defend the interests of the Greeks, because for that we were voted on by the Greeks, Your Honor, to defend their interests. And I deeply regret that you, who is proud until you lose, lose the best Member the Socialist Parliamentary Group has in the House. [[Murmurs.]] I deeply regret it, Mr. Knight. Do you know what's wrong with him? Let those who know more than you do. That's a problem, Your Honor, that's a real problem. [[Applause]] Yes, Your Honor, yes, there you are. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u91	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u92	Look, the political centrality is to accept the virtues of parliamentarians who are not in our group. And this isn't from now on. We already accepted his virtue when you said you weren't coming to Parliament. Well, I have to tell you and say goodbye to Mr. Leicega with respect, and with admiration, and tell Mr. Leicega you have respect and admiration for this group, much more than yours. Nothing else and thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u93	Thank you. Agenda development modification
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u94	There's a change in the agenda. Now, as you know, it's a question to the Health Counsellor. Question from Noa Presas Bergantiños and five other Members from the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the actions planned by the Galician Board to avoid impediments to the provision of a decent pediatric service and with guarantees to Ourense children
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u95	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u96	Counsellor, after dismantling pediatric surgery care by 2013, you continue to be a child or a child in Ourense province, you are not supposed to have the same rights as in other parts of the country, and that is unacceptable. [[Applause]] Look, 30,686 under 15 have the same rights as any other, and look at what I've got here, if it's capable of sustaining shame. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantiños shows a document.]] We've just met, by the press, that there are a thousand two hundred pediatric appointments from Ourense hospital welcomed, a thousand two hundred children and girls who are going to be unattended, we don't know how long. And this says the head of Pediatrics of the CHUO, doesn't say the BNG, says Mr. Cebrián. At least two hundred, because we don't know what the waiting list is at the Verín hospital and at the Barco hospital. That's why, Counselor, today the first thing we ask you to do is explain yourself and tell you the truth. Here's the actual waiting list data from the CHUO, the Ourense hospital, the Verín hospital and the Valdeorras hospital. We want to know the truth. And secondly, look for solutions, stop looking the other way in front of a problem that, far from solved, does not get worse. We need another policy of health personnel attraction, because you know they failed what they're doing, because the pediatricians and the pediatricians of Ourense don't evaporate, many of them are going to work in other parts of Galicia, not even in other parts of the state or in other parts of the world, but they are leaving because there are better conditions and better organization, and that's the failure of the EOXI of Ourense. [[Applause]] Besides, you keep your eyes regularly in the face of problems of generational relief. I'll give you an example. How many years have you known that staff was going to retire? Many years, Mr. Counsellor, and he was warned also in this parliament, but you prefer to look the other way because you have a hidden schedule, the hidden schedule that in a few years in Ourense, in the province of Ourense, specifically in the hospital of Verín, no children or children are cared for. That's his hidden schedule. And there are also problems at the Valdeorras boat. He knows perfectly well that there are also scheduled consultations that are suspended and also that his shift organization does not work. Galician Justice Court itself had to tell them that from Ourense to the Barco it is not in 20 minutes. That's the level you've got for pediatrics in Ourense. And, therefore, we say to you, Counsellor: enough enough, enough waiting lists, enough of dismantling covered, enough of abusive conditions about the workers and workers. We want solutions, and that's why we asked him today: what are they going to do to ensure that Ourense's children have a decent pediatric care, Counsellor, proper to this century and not the Middle Ages?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u98	Mr. President, thank you very much. The truth is, it's true that the fact that you're not the health spokesman leads you to make very important mistakes, and speaking in addition to Medieval medicine, I think you're attacking the 30,000 professionals we have in the Welsh health care. In the Galician Health Service we bet on the maintenance of the current model of pediatric care, both in health centres and hospitals, for children and children in Wales; an equitable, accessible and quality service. In Spain we now have a very important birth problem, possibly one of the biggest challenges. In Ourense, in particular, we just had 37,608 children in 1999 to 30,686 in 2018, a 18.6% decrease. In primary care, the primary care assistance model has a coverage by pediatricians in Galicia of almost 90%; that is, out of the total square, 90% are covered by pediatricians, a percentage greater than the average in Spain, which is in 75%, or communities like Andalusia, which is around 70%, or Castilla-La Mancha, which is under 60%, and in Balearics, 50%. In the hospital, apart from the improvements in facilities — the last example is that of the works in pediatric emergencies in the Materno-Infantile da Coruña, about to finish — or the incorporation of new equipment from which you say we want to close, at the moment we are carrying out the acquisition of equipment for the pediatric services and pediatric surgery in Ourense, amounting to nearly 300 thousand euros, among which are two respirators for neonates, another transporter, bronchofibros, two cardiotographers, two incubators for the unit of neonates and pediatric ICU, equipment for espirometrics, etc. In addition, we are taking steps to reduce the incidence of another major problem in Spain, which is the lack of pediatricians, which is a national problem. And what did the German Government do, pioneer in this act of fighting against this lack of professionals? For the increase in retirement age, almost four years ago, the stabilization of the staff, OPE since 2012 with 103 squares for primary care pediatricians, creating new squares in the primary care plan -- there will be twenty more primary care pediatrics squares in 3 years -- and, on the other hand, the creation of the category of pediatric nurse, providing squares for significant attention improvement. The lack of coverage on rent or holidays is not an economic issue. We're talking about the offer of vacancies, interintensities, as you know, the pre-arrangement to obtain a plaza on the property. We also asked for an extraordinary MIR to the ministry, which was rejected. We call for the extension of the training of the number of pediatricians in training, which we have finally received this year. We increased that by 35 percent more. We asked for the removal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u99	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u100	...of the replenishment rate and, of course, we continue to request the axillization and approval of titles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u101	Thank you, Counselor. Time's up. Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u102	Counsellor, of course, I know what I'm talking about, first because I come here, to the Greek Parliament, with the duties done, after talking to professionals and parents affected by this situation. And secondly, because I come here, to the German Parliament, to tell the truth that you hide and manipulate. [[Applause]] And, tell me, Counselor, then, mind the chief of pediatrics of the CHUO when he says in the U.S. press that there are 1,200 appointments only to the hospital of Ourense? yes or no? Say what's the real waiting list in the three hospitals in Ourense, that's what you have to do here. [[Applause]] Tell the truth and put solutions on the table. If there's so much trouble looking for pediatricians, I'll ask you a question: Why do those who find them offer three-month or six-month contracts? Why not offer an attractive professional career? [[Applause]] Do you think you can solve everything with peonadas? Of course not! Look, May this same year: sentence of the Court of Justice of Galicia to Sergas to pay 15,000 euros to an oresan pediatrician for work overload. This is the labour policy from which the pediatricians of Ourense escape, Counselor. This is your responsibility. The solution is that doctors and doctors don't work until they're 120, because they're not immortal, Counselor. The solution is another labour policy, which is personal attraction, and the solution is also armoring the hospitals of Barco and Verín, because children in that part of the country are also entitled to primary pediatric care. So, less apologies and more to do his job. And, of course, don't come to me with excuses for his improvements at Ourense hospital, because, if you like, we're talking about what happened this weekend in the CHUO kitchen. Are we talking about that oven that blew up? Are we talking about that occupational accident that happened this weekend in that CHUO kitchen? Are we talking about that the new ovens don't even have the right electric power to be in operation and that they're delaying the opening...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u104	...of the new CHUO kitchen?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u105	Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u106	Don't come to us with stories, Counselor. We know that politics...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u107	Thank you, thank you. Your time is up. Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Your time is up. [[Applause]] Close this question, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u108	Thank you, President. The truth is, it's very curious that your group is talking about the KGB. That's funny, the truth is. Thank God, she's been missing a while ago. I don't know if they want it back. Look, the specialized pediatric care of Ourense province is currently conditioned by the competition of a simultaneous circumstance that occurred in the hospitals of Verín and The Barco de Valdeorras in the summer period 2019. In the case of the Hospital de Verín, the pediatrician who assumed a large number of guards stopped doing them for reasons of age; and in the case of the Hospital Comarcal de Valdeorras, the pediatrician is enjoying a low paternal one he is entitled to, logically, and is doing so. In both cases, without the possibility of any substitution, there is no available specialist. Tell you that we offer three-month contracts. Curiously, we convened two vacant pediatrics squares at the Summer Hospital, interinstances, the most stable without approving an opposition, and they were deserted when no specialists presented themselves. It's not true that it's an economic issue, it's not true that it's a Council policy, it's that there are no specialists, but it's not only in Galicia, it's also in Spain. In Spain they're using family doctors to give pediatric care in primary care, and we're not. In view of this, the Ourense Pediatric Service assumed the responsibility of covering pediatric care in the two comarcal hospitals, without which it would be impossible to pay attention to births, which I assumed would add to the guards that are logically carried out in the Ourense hospital. This fact is forcing an exceptional effort on the pediatric staff of this service. As a result of this situation it was necessary to postpone 1,200 consultations - as you have said - corresponding to external consultations on sub-specialties, seeing in advance whether prior priority was necessary, whether it was possible or whether they could be delayed. And, logically, the ones that might take longer are the ones that took longer. Again, the effort of this service is to allow us to absorb this activity in extraordinary days — as you knew when you were talking about peonadas, we will talk about extraordinary days — and so we will continue to do the next few months. In the coming weeks this situation will improve, by incorporating from its lower paternal the pediatrician of the Barco, and of [...] the care burden that logically produces at the Valdeorras Hospital. Since the Galician Health Service, all measures have been taken within our reach to reduce the impact of this circumstance. We have clear the way: more professional and more stable; better facilities and equipment — I believe that what I have previously remembered, the purchase of latest technology materials for Ourense hospital confirms it. We want quality, accessible, equitable pediatric care in which safety is a fundamental element. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u109	Thank you, Counselor. Let's resume the agenda. Let's go back to non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Joint Left Group, at the initiative of D. Antón Sánchez García and D. Marcos Cal Ogando, on the actions to be carried out by the Galician Group in connection with the timely modification of the Municipal Management Plan of Mos to facilitate the execution of the project to build the Celtic Sports City and a shopping center
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u110	There's an amendment from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u111	Mr Sánchez has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u112	Good morning. What are we going to expect from a president of the Galician Union who says – and does not get colored – that the rise of the VAT in Galicia was due to the city councils and not to a decree signed by Mr Rajoy — Duo Rajoy-Montoro — and referred again in 2016, to update the catastrophic values, the updating coefficient, or that it says that the rise of water is also due to the collection by the municipalities, when there was a water law that instituted the water cannon, so they have to pay even to the people who made their wells and their neighboring betrays without the public administration providing even a penny? What can you debate with a man who lies so brazenly and doesn't get colored? Well, little. Well, let's go on the subject that brings us here today. While a couple of Vigos with two 7 and 13-year-old girls, who charge Risga, will be evicted without the Council of Galicia or the Vigo Council giving them a housing alternative because they have no public housing available after years and years forgetting these public policies to guarantee the right to housing, while that's it, prepares in Mos a large ballat that brings us back to the worst period of the real estate bubble. There's not only to make public housing for people who need it, but soon it's sought to accommodate a 140,000 square meters shopping mall. After approving the Municipal Management Plan in 2017, the People's Party was prepared to make a mega-qualification so that a private enterprise, a private entrepreneur, would do a great deal of business at the expense of the sustainable management of Mos, the neighbouring mountain, local trade, the mobility of drinking water and the properties of the neighbors and neighbors of Mos. The People's Party once again shows its true face. For the People's Party or urbanism serves to speculate, privatizing benefits and socializing losses. Since last year, through these heights, we have discovered the People's Party trying to change in the accompanying law the mechanism of expropriation, to privatize the expropriation process and that Celta could act as an urbanizing agent - famous, unfortunately, in Valencia, and on the Mediterranean coast, in the years of the real estate bubble -. It didn't prosper because we caught them on potatoes, but the result doesn't change much. The Town Hall of Mos — with Mrs. Arévalo in the head — intends to expropriate the lands of neighbors and neighbors of Mos to hand them over to Mouriño, a friend of the People's Party. A real theft they want to legalize. The speculative Marbella-style operation hides serious irregularities. It is intended to implement a timely change to the Municipal Management General Plan which should be a full review of the Municipal Management General Plan. The revision of the General Plan in accordance with Article 200.3 of the Galician Soil and Article 22.7 Regulation and the transitional fourth provision of the State Soil Law text should be considered because, in fact, the change in the contents of the Mose General Plan requires the adoption of new criteria regarding the general and organic structure of the territory, especially soil classification, motivated by economic circumstances affecting management. This is what the article of the Law of the Sun, of the Law of the Soil of Galicia that you approved. They're unable to comply with the laws that you approve, they do and they break and change over and over again. He doesn't even give them to be able to do business with friends. In this sense, it must be borne in mind that the General Plan was recently adopted, two years ago, and it was justified that it was intended for adequate and sufficient soil for economic activities and for residential uses, taking into account the needs of the population. It must be borne in mind that the new reclassified urbanizable sector, which is 980,000 square meters, doubles the already urbanizable soil in Mos, which is 940,000 square meters. The total investment for the execution of the Santa General Plan was at 71.8 million euros, and this is going to cost 62.8 million euros, which would mean an increase of almost 100 percent of the investments that the City Council of Mos will have to make, and, in addition, about. And then, that reclassification as urbanized soil represents more than 32% of the urbanized soil surface of the municipal term and exceeds the threshold of 20%, which requires full exercise of management power. That's a complete review of the municipal general plan. Besides, it is not justified, because there is no public interest in the change. The provision of 125,000 square metres for tertiary use is not considered justified, for commercial use, because the justifying memory of the Municipal Management General Plan already has a justification where it specifies the suitability and adequacy of the surface for Mos, which takes account of the Town Hall of Mos and also the trade of the area surrounding Mos, of the Vigo metropolitan area. They're justified and done with technically appropriate calculations. On the other hand, this review is not justified and does not take into account the effect it could have on the trades in the environment or on the local trade in the Mos itself. Nor does he have the analysis for the child of that impact. It will have a high landscaping impact, as indicated in the report by the Institute of Territorial Studies, given the built volume, which concentrates 125,000 square meters, since it is intended to make, in addition, as an excuse, a sports city, which must be said to be 12 football fields - I believe - basically; 12 football fields built with several heights. Finally, the main argument to deploy this shopping center is to make possible an urban operation to create the sports city, and it is blatantly said in the sponsor's document. I mean, I, a private sports organization, I want to make a sports city, and to get myself out profitable and I don't have to bring any money, you have to reschedule 125,000 square meters for me to sell them, speculate with them, take the money, make the sports city and go out for free. Man, I suppose all the neighbors and neighbors of Mos will want something like this! I mean, I'm going to make a house in a creek that I have there, but you have to reclassify a mountain that I have in town hall for me to sell it and do so to my house. It's so clear! And this, in addition, with an expropriation system where the council expropriates the neighbours, including the community of mountains in Tameiga, with an approved management instrument — which does not help us in this country — and with the willingness to maintain the forest and leisure use of the mountain, it exposes all these people, to give them a contest that they say they won't be ready to play the Celtic, perhaps Pontevedra goes to the contest and they also give the sport city to Pontevedra, right? I think if you do, it'll end up being for the Celta, but good. It's a contest, we'll be well thought up!, a contest where the Celta will happen to present the best offer, because the prayers will already write them Mr. Mouriño. It's a real scandal! Also, if other alternatives have not been taken into account, no other alternatives are described in the modification of the general plan. Alternatives that could be: the suitability to place the sports city in Mos; the possibility to make the sports city without that shopping center of 125,000 square meters; the possibility to place the sports city in undeveloped urbanizable soils, of which there are many thousands of square meters in the Town Hall of Mos. And you don't study because this is a ballast. And of course, you can't put the sports city in urbanizable soil because it costs more and because you have to contribute. The best thing is to buy cheap and sell expensive. That's obvious, isn't it? It's an account you've made many times. So it's a real and enormous shock that's not justified from any point of view; it's not fair to neighbouring, either landscape, or environmental. The impact of this huge mall on the rest of the trade in Mos and the neighbouring municipalities is not taken into account. It also affects the underground waters of the municipality of Mos, which are supplying to many neighbors, and still above the water resources are not guaranteed for the 980,000 square meters that are intended to urbanize. And we believe, in addition - to finish - that this proposal of expropriation and procuring finger to give it to Mr Mouriño seems rather a fraud of enormous law. So here we are asking for a statement by the German Parliament to say no to speculation, which has caused so much damage in this country; to tell you whether to use the mountains of Tameiga sustainably; and to tell you whether to a neighborhood that will be struck if we do not remedy it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u113	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. The guests may not have been informed, but they can't speak out either in favour or against. I'm sorry, but these are the rules we have here in Parliament. Sorry, that's right. I just told them, I think, politely, that they might not have been informed, but they can't show favor or against. These are the rules we have set here. Thank you. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u114	Good morning. If the guests who are in the gallery, whom we welcome, by the way, to this Parliament, here applies a particular bite law, because you can come, but you have to shut up, you can't even show a shirt. This is the conception of democracy that the People's Party has.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u115	Go to other places, go to other parliaments, and perhaps what you just said, with all due respect, you have to withdraw.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u116	In the Parliament of Pontevedra stop the full. Here you can't speak to the audience who come to the full.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u117	Sorry, sorry, I'm talking. Here you can... I'll stop the time. It's just that this should be clear. There's a rule on the rostrum, but nobody's stopped some rules in which the whole of Parliament is, whenever they don't insult anyone, I want to make it clear. Therefore, do not give me now, Mr Bará, lessons from the rostrum of what was approved here. It is perfectly approved and there is absolute freedom in this Parliament, which does not happen in others, and in other municipalities less. And in other municipalities less! It is not therefore this matter for Parliament to attack this in this case, which I believe we have done accordingly. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u118	No, I'm not attacking Parliament, I'm complaining about the fact that there's a bite of law here and that it's not allowed for the public to even applaud.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u119	I don't know if you know what's going on in Vigo, but good.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u120	By the way, I don't know if the People's Party knows that in the whole of the councils and the deputies — they called on the Deputy of Pontevedra — the public can intervene in the plenary. You can intervene in the plenary, yes, yes. There's a procedure to ask and... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u121	No, no. Let's leave this topic. I think the guests understood perfectly what I was telling them. This is the rule here. So, let's go to the question, which is the matter that brings us here today.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u122	Let's get to the point. Today is November 13th, the day the Prestige ship sank; an accident turned into a catastrophe by the mismanagement of the People's Party's Governments in the board of Galicia and also in the state government. That catastrophe also led to a great mobilization of the Greek people under the flag of Never Again, which was an example for the world, to defend the environment and also to defend the dignity of this country. [[Applause]] These days we're talking about climate change, we're talking about climate change in plenary yesterday. This issue serves to remove the face of the People's Party in policies that favour climate change, because it cannot otherwise be called huge aggression to the environment — according to its own reports, by the way — which is intended to be perpetrated in the Town Hall of Mos and, above all, in the parish of Tameiga, and we are going to put all means to prevent it because it is a huge injustice, a huge aggression, an aberration and a genuine peltage, which is presented as the project of a sports city but which is a covert, in fact, to build a business macrocentre with serious affections. All this, all this plan designed and preconceived by the council of Mos with its mayor in front and Mr. Mouriño, is being supported, supported and applauded by the board of Galicia, as they did in their public presentation of December 15, 2017 in Vigo, when they presented the project of a sports city, deceiving everyone, because what they actually presented there did not say it publicly, it happened later, when the next day they signed an agreement with the council and it was something else. It was a great business, a big ballatzo, which is likely to benefit those multinationals who have been trying to settle in the Vigo area for a long time. From that point on, this whole plan was developed, including this shameful attempt to change the Land Law that we discovered here, in this Parliament, and that they had to withdraw. It turns out that on May 16, 2018 a resolution from the Directorate-General for Environmental Quality was made public that highlighted the enormous outcome of this project, with reports from the Board and other agencies. The General Directorate of Territory and Urbanism considers it necessary to properly justify the choice of expropriation as a system of action, since the objective of the timely modification is the deployment of private uses and supplies. The Institute of Territorial Studies notes the visual and landscape impact and questions the need to establish a shopping centre - the Institute of Territorial Studies of Galician Union itself -. He says that the need for a commercial area alongside the sports complex should be properly justified, and he proposes to look for alternative locations. You're telling them an organism of the Union itself. The Vigo Town Hall also objectes, above all, to the needs of water use, which must proceed from the Vigo Town Hall. The Mino-Sil Hydrographic Confederation also objectes to the uses of water and the conditions it will have in the water resources and the neighboring betrayals. The State Road Demarcation also objectes to how this complex will affect the connection of that alternative vial of what we talked about yesterday, precisely in this plenary, which is affected by this project. The Deputy of Pontevedra, too. The General Directorate of Heritage also speaks of the great affections to cultural heritage. Finally, it is said that this change foresees the transformation of a large surface of soil classified as rustic - idiom an official document of the Galician Union - with an important impact on the environmental variable, with important land movements, significant landscape effects, impact on the trade of Mos and its entire area and impact on climate change. You come here to assume that you have a strategy to fight climate change and commit these real aggressions! I'm absolutely... I don't deserve any credibility! You, the People's Party, in the Town Hall of Mos and the Galician Union, what you're trying to do with this project is to pass a dromedary through the eye of a needle. And he pretends to do it camouflaging what is a commercial macrocenter like a sports city. He intends to do this by declaring the public utility to develop a project that is of interest and private business, speculative, of a large international company that is behind this operation. They intend to force and violate the law, with a clear diversion of power. It's an example of a power deflection book what you intend to do. And they intend to tear down 1 million square meters of rustic and forest land. So the BNG won't allow this aberration, this outcome, this huge environmental aggression. We shall put every means to prevent it in this Parliament and in all the bodies in which we are. That's why we also propose an amendment to the proposal of the Left Joint Group, in which we call for a moratorium to be made to prevent, for a period of time, the installation of large commercial surfaces in the Vigo area, which is the business behind this speculative operation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u123	Thank you, Mr Bará. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u124	Thank you, President. Welcome, neighbors of Mos. The construction of the new sports city of the Royal Club Celta de Vigo in the nearby and communal mountain of Tameiga, belonging to the Town Hall of Mos, together with a large shopping center, generated protests, generated mobilizations between the vicinity of the place and gave rise to the creation of a platform that has already positioned itself and has been working all this time, from the very first moment, against both the mall and the sports city. At the beginning of last year, of 2018, the news reported this occupation, which would in principle affect eight hundred and a thousand square metres of surface — today we speak nearly one million — of which 240.000 would have sport use, 140,000 would be the commercial area and 5,000 parking lots, and 330,000 would be built, by reforestation, a natural space and leisure. The new sports town of Celta is being processed by the municipality through the timely modification of its urbanism plan. Thus, most of this mountain would be in the hands of these companies, who intend to make sport facilities profitable by building a large mall and expropriating land, by a private entity, to a community of mountains in common for their personal profit. And that says a celestial waitress, in addition. The large malls adversely affect the small trade; Mr. Sánchez has already said so here and Mr. Bará has already said so. We're talking about a small trade formed in most of it by autonomous and small shops in the urban area of the surrounding areas. Thus, all the commercial areas, the small and medium-sized and trade of Bouzas and Calvary, the center of Vigo, Teis, the old helmet, the university or the Travesas will resent, and also will resent those of the neighboring municipalities. Apart from causing environmental damage, especially with regard to forest resources in the area, in a project with low environmental impact and no water damage. That's a trick! It is important to note that these projects will affect both the environment and the resources, as much as the construction and maintenance of sports facilities, approximately twelve football fields. At the expense of water, the water communities of Petelos and Tameiga, joined together as can be that of Casal, the Sanguineda and Baxiña, four of the six water communities have already shown their opposition to the construction of the Celtic commercial zone. However, the different leisure and sports facilities will have to rely on water resources, since last year these dates had already shown insufficient. In a dry year there was no water, and with climate change, with climate change, this problem will be recurrent, especially in these central and southern districts of Pontevedra. In addition to these drawbacks, we must also point out the condition as regards noise in the area, which is going to be assumed, since the influx of vehicles, the levels of pollution in the air and the environment will greatly increase. But of course, at the end of September of this same year, the Full House approved with the popular party's favourable votes the timely modification of its PXOM, in order to facilitate this sport city project and shopping center of Celta de Vigo, which means the upswing of more than 864,000 square meters of land, half of them on the communal mountain and most of them on the floor of special forest protection, with instruments already approved for management. Therefore, the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, if they really defend rural as their president said here today, have a head and do not allow the Galician Union to give a good witness to this timely change of the PXOM. We, from the Joint Parliamentary Group, from En Marea, will do so. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u125	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u126	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. And, of course, we welcome the neighbors of Mos who have come this far. Since the Socialist Party we are going to express our support for this initiative, in line with the defense that has already been given, in November of last year, to the case of fellow Abel Losada. So today, we can't have anything else to do with the issues that were already pointed at that day, and why not, some more. And it's not that in this matter of the so-called sports complex of the Real Club Celta in Mos, there's not that there's a theme that goes wrong, but it's a lot and a lot of different. Of course, I begin with the main request of the initiative. It cannot be understood — or at least cost much — as there may be a PXOM with only two years of life which, in such a short time, is subject to having to face such an important change as the re-alification of an area of magnitude as large as this; a modification which goes by re-alifying common-hand land that will occupy half of the intended complex; and the other half with forest protection. The curious thing is that protections have as little value as to justify their uselessness in just two years. Moreover, it is pointed to that the change of use will improve the risk of fire because the trees will disappear; a criterion that has seemed to me to say -- let me say -- a genius of the Galician humorous retreat. According to this, we could cut all Galicia and solve the fire problems from a pen. You give him what he wants, but all this urban operation, and the various justifications that helped him, it's very complicated to explain, but much more to understand. Last year they tried to provide a wider legal body with these kinds of performances, and that's why they prepared a modification of the Land Law in the Budget Accompanying Law; an amendment that, at the last moment, before the alarm of the different groups, as well as, of course, of the social response, if they were forced to freeze. And I say stop because, really, the only thing they did was to postpone an intention that remains much clearer and better explained in the preliminary draft of the Land Management Act. In this law they have put a great deal of effort into various articles so that it is well reflected within the projects of self-interest—readually—. Article 51.2 says: "Self-interest projects, which can be public or private..." — important: or private— "...can be developed in any kind of soil." And, yes, I read well, "in any kind of soil." And in the same paragraph: "...will lead to the direct modification of the corresponding municipal planning determinations." It's funny because, on the one hand, the councils protect; and on the other hand, the Council opens the door to unprotect; yes, with favorable reports. I insist, all this is very difficult to digest and explain, and, from the point of view of urban ethics, the qualifier of scandalous. This example of Mos is a clear example of a perverse use of laws to give legality a hidden business, because self-interest here is clearly what marks money. And it's not said by this group, the municipal technical report itself, which mentions those 6 million people who will form the potential market for commercial facilities that are attached to the complex, where the largest number of jobs are justified. And on the other hand, because there are many fronts that show the reports. The existence, for example, of archaeological deposits and the impact on the future performance of the precautionary areas is indicated. And what is the answer to this archaeological question? For it will be seen on the march; a practice which, unfortunately, is not anecdotal, and of this it well knows not only the vicinity of Mos, but, for example, many areas of Galicia. Without going too far, the neighbors of the Morrazo, who had to fight for the proper conservation of the castle of Montealegre with the works of the Morrazo corridor!, achieving the change of the original project by the Unity of Galicia in the last phases. An administration that therefore feels comfortable skipping those precautions that contain the laws and causes the opposite, whether it be the citizenship to which it has to assume the role of guarantor of the protection of natural heritage, archaeological or cultural heritage. The world in reverse, that's what we're talking about today. For all this, and for many more things like those pointed at the different voices, such as the different repair reports, of the territorial Institute of Studies, that impact of environmental action, and also at the level of communications with that future connection of A-55. As a matter of substance, we asked them — and we asked all of you — that is, is Galicia's strategic development in the hands of the Union or is it launching a clear message, like that of Mos, of delegation of functions only on the private initiative? Plisán reminds you that he remains paralyzed, how can they explain that where there is only available, on the other hand, is not used? You will understand that we are very concerned about the answer to this matter, because with this case of Mos it is found that we no longer sell only land in the industrial polygons, whole Galicia is for sale. Galicia is more vulnerable than ever. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u128	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. I wanted to start this speech by asking for a favor from the presidency of the House and also from the spokesmen of all groups. I ask you to value the possibility of replacing the Rules of Procedure of this House with the Rules of Procedure which work in the Parliament of Pontevedra. I'm also warning them. When this attempt was made in a council—see where you are—Mos's, the representatives of the PSOE, the representatives of the BNG and the representatives of the local tide voted against for dictatorial and abusive. That's right, only when they apply it to you. Yes, dictatorial and abusive. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I want to begin this intervention by asking respect: respect for Moses, respect for his corporation, respect for his mayor and, above all, respect for the Moses, who are informed citizens, intelligent and free to make their own decisions, within the scope of their powers, without the tutelage of anyone. Look, the territory of Mos bears very important loads and conditions: from an airport, from AP-9, from A-55, from a train line, suffers the threat of the future A-59 and from a future line from AVE to Porto, infrastructures that left the territory of Mos to provide services to Vigo, a great city. Mos has always been sympathetic and has always been supportive of these needs, but no one is confused!, Mos is not the way of service of any great city, Mos is an autonomous council that aspires to give his neighbours a future. And what it can't be is that Mos has to swallow with cement when it's to favor others and then we come here to strip our clothes when it's intended to favor the neighbors of Mos. This isn't good. [[Applause]] And this is about this, giving Mos a future. [[Applause]] You may not share it, that's legitimate. But, man, you'll have the same right to open a shopping center and a sports town as the neighbor on the side, right?, which is about to open Vialia, Valadares, Recare and Porto Cabral. Or are those of Mos less? Look, Mos is in the process — because in addition to respecting Mos there is a need to respect the law — the first timely change of his PXOM by scrupulously following the legal procedures provided for in the regulations, and the Board will ensure that this is still the case. And I would be grateful if you wouldn't insult me during my intervention. Today this Parliament is moving us into a proposal to break the law, putting the interests of a political group on the will of the neighbors of Mos. The proposal that Mr Sánchez wishes to pay at any price — and, indeed, in response to all the allegations and observations that you have said — relates to the favourable report of the municipal secretary of the Town Hall of Mos Town Hall, of the Municipal Intervention of the City Hall of Mos Town Hall, of the City architect of the Town Hall of Mos Town Hall, and even of the Ministry for the Ecological Transition — that he must be very suspicious of being participating in a pelt held by the People's Party. I ask the voices, are these technicians who are?, are you complicit in the ballast or part of the corrupt plot? Because you have to come here and tell them. We have to speak clearly. The proposal that Mr. Sánchez wishes to veto, without more legal support than his own opinion, must be monitored by the technical services of the Galician Union, and so will it; and if he does not scrupulously comply with legality, that sports city will not be done. The proposal that they criminalize today — as they always do — was ratified by the polls, because it was the central axis of the municipal electoral campaign in Mos. I'd say more, that election campaign was a real referendum on Celta's sports city in Mos. The result of the referendum, because the Mosans spoke, and spoke clearly: we won. [[Applause]] His representatives, those who wanted to put this down, 1,000 votes minus, 2 concelers minus; the People's Party, 500 votes plus, most absolute. Respect the neighbors of Mos! [[Applause]] Respect us! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] The neighbors of Mos made a decision, which was to support the project of the sports town of Celta. And they made that decision despite attempts at information poisoning that were carried out, using their own methods of criminal organizations and those none of you talked about here today. None! They talked about mountain destruction, and they hide that it was offered for each meter of affected mountain reforestation with native species two meters of mountain, two for each one. They lied to the water catch theme. But they went further, invented a municipal fictitious water company, supplanting the Town Hall of Mos. They created false water receipts, inflating their amounts, to deceive, alarm and manipulate the neighbors of Mos. These letters were sent to their homes seven days before the election; that's yes, paying with the money of a community of mountains, by the way, where neighbors of all political colors are represented. And who are responsible for this mafia strategy? [[Murmurs.]] For, according to the candidates, according to the testimony — because of this there is an open legal record, we do not act because yes — one of their candidates in Mos, number 8 of the candidacy of Winners. And what did you say here? [[Murmurs.]] Absolutely nothing! You, gentlemen, live in a parallel reality. On that list, on which the association opposed to this topic is represented primarily, there are six representatives of that association on its electoral list.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u129	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u130	Six! Who sponsored that list was you, gentlemen. It was you, here they are. So you must abandon that parallel reality, Mr. Sánchez. Because you, against what you said here in the questions, you're not Government, you're opposition. You, in this case, are not the untouchables, no, you are the [mafia] And you are not Eliot Ness, no, you are... [[(Expression taken from the Journal of Sessions by the President in the light of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure.)]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u131	No, that expression...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u132	...the godfathers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u133	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u134	...of an association...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u135	That expression...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u136	...that he dedicated himself...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u137	No, no... silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u138	...to manipulate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u139	It's over now, Mr. Pazos. Let's remove that expression.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u140	...the e-mail to try to extract the electoral receipt.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u141	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u142	And keep quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u143	Silence! [[Murmurs.]] No, no, sorry...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u144	I'm gonna have them come here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u145	...here there are no mobs.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u146	...and publicly condemn those acts.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u147	No, no... silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u148	And if not, they won't teach us any lessons.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u149	It's over. It's over!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u150	They don't teach us lessons from anything.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u151	Mr. Paz, just a moment, please. [[Murmurs.]] I'll ask you to remove the expression "I'm a mafia." I'll ask you to withdraw it. [[Protests.]] No, no, I'm asking you to remove that expression because I think no one here is a mafia. I won't let you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u152	I demand that it be clarified in this House if the only thing that can't use these expressions is the People's Party, which is receiving it permanently...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u153	No, no...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u154	...accuses of delinquency in this House with absolute impunity. I'm not taking her away! [[Strong murmurers.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u155	Don't you?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u156	I'm not taking her away! I support her here and I will support her in the trial as often as I need it! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u157	I call you by order, Mr. Pazos. I don't want... I don't want this kind of expression. [[Applause]] I don't want them! No, no. [[Murmurs.]] Not me. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I will not allow the word "mafia" to be used either on this side or on this side. No, no, who used it? [[Protests.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, I didn't hear him. I didn't hear the word "mafia." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, I didn't hear that word. [[Protests.]] No, I didn't listen... No, I didn't hear the word "mafia." [[Protests.]] [[Murmurs.]] In any case, no one should use the word "mafia". So I take it back. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And from now on, you know how the debate goes, that expression is withdrawn. I don't agree that this word is used by anyone in any group. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We're going to have a normal Parliament, normal! [[Protests.]] No, that's it! [[Protests.]] It's over! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] This debate is over. [[Protests.]] It's over! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, if I'm in the debate, I don't agree. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] No, please. Please! [[Murmurs.]] Please! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, no, no. Mrs. Prado, it's me. I know very well what I'm saying. I don't agree with that kind of expression. As far as my common sense is concerned, I'm not going to do it. If I miss one, you'll work together so that I don't get away with the reasoning. Point. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's it! They're all working together! [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Sánchez, your closing shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u158	The Corleone clan was also very nervous when he saw the possibility that... [[The President said words that were not understood.]] Let him calm down. Call me in order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u159	We're not going to disturb this debate... We won't allow any...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u160	He asked for respect.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u161	I ask respect for everyone, for everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u162	No, no. He asked for Mr Pazos and he called the neighbors and the neighbors who are mobilized because they will steal their lands... may I speak? that you have spoken and no one has interrupted him. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u163	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u164	Neighbors and neighbors who are fighting because they're going to steal their lands, you said they were using their own methods of criminal organization. Seeing these words from the spokesman of the party of the papers of Basel, the envelopes in B, the money black, the reforms paid in B, the party of corruption. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u165	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u166	Who was qualified as a criminal organization was the People's Party for judges and prosecutors, not us. You're the criminal organization! [[Protests.]] You are the ones who apply violence against ordinary people, from the power it gives people to you to work for the public interest. [[Applause]] And they don't justify public interest because what's public is the interest of Nidia Arevalo, the People's Party and Mr Mouriño, to give a ball. Let me talk... [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u167	Quiet, quiet. There's no...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u168	Isn't it nice for you to listen to the others...?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u169	Mr. Sánchez, there's no suspicion about anyone, no one's interest.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u170	For now, as long as you don't succeed with Vox, I can say here what it looks like and reality, right? And you have to listen. At least listen, right? Too many years doing business and not even having to listen to the truth here. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You said: technical reports. Look, in all the ballasts there was in this country, which caused so much damage, in which you were protagonists, there were reports. There were reports at the Marbella of Jesus Gil. [[Murmurs.]] And you said...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u171	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u172	...that this position is ratified by the polls. You, then, Vigo don't talk about anything here, you don't come to talk about anything here, you've also ratified something by the polls in Vigo, do you?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u173	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u174	So, the vows...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u175	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u176	I hope time... because they're not letting me talk. Asks respect for those who support a fraudulent operation by modifying the laws to the extent that they want to steal from their neighbours. And he asks respect for those who defend an operation that will use public interest to expropriate ordinary people and fraudulently deliver it to Mr. Mouriño so he can make himself gold with the neighboring lands. You ask respect, Mr. Pazos, please! It is a failure of absolute respect for your intervention! It is a failure of absolute respect to the people of Mos this operation, mafia operation! Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u177	Remove that expression and call to order, Mr. Sánchez. About the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u178	It's off. About the amendment? We accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u179	Yes, Mr. Pazos, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u180	Just to remove all the expressions related to the "robe" that were made in this intervention, which meant to eliminate about half of it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u181	I've already called the order on the final question. The debate died. No, no, the debate is over. Quiet, the debate is over! No, I'm not giving any more words. I believe that this debate has already been sufficiently disturbed. It's over, it's over, it's over. That's it, it's over. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, please. Quiet, quiet! I don't want to call them in order again. Quiet, quiet! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Stop, stop, because if you don't, I call them both back in order and I don't want to. [[Murmurs.]] Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We're still full. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Joint Left Group, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the allocation by the Government of Greece to Sergas of the economic resources necessary to enable the negotiation of a work stability plan at the sectoral table
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u182	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u183	To formulate the proposal, you have the floor to Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u184	Thank you, President. See who intervenes now, after this tension and this mess! Today we have seen an initiative on which, of course, a partial debate has already taken place in the debate on budgets, but we believe that we must deepen on this issue further. We have a fairly evident problem of precariousness, within the Galego Health Service, which has occupied us in this plenary and in the Committee on Health, Social Policy and Employment in a way I believe it is profuse. We also discussed this issue yesterday, at some other initiative, and today we call on this House, in this plenary, to provide Sergas with sufficient economic resources to be able to negotiate a stability plan at the sectoral table that meets the appropriate ratios and allows public job offers to be convened in order to end the abuse of temporary employment and work overload. We have commented on this issue in the committee just a few weeks ago, and we believe it is necessary to reiterate, because, despite the influent announcements by the Government of the People's Party of an increase or improvement in health personnel, the result is that budgets do not give guarantees, with 4 in hospital care and with 5 in primary care, a rise to increase the number of squares. In fact, if you look at the squares that are budgeted within the budget of 2020, there really is no single new creation place, and they won't even be created, the offer will be taken out, all the squares that are pending due to the replenishment rates applied for years and that at this time they will continue to cover with potential staff. It's a request I've already made at your own time, and although today is the little hemicycle that has been fought at these hours, we ask again, because it has not been done yet, that the President of the Board apologizes to Sergas' staff because in this House he made a statement that he has not yet received an official apology from the Chair of the Board, when he moved that more than 80% of the staff was made in our autonomous community. An autonomous community in which about 40 percent of staff are precarious, possibly, personnel who are not in a position to do so and which, therefore, cannot properly plan their family life and reconcile. And surely in a few days, this work will begin on the Demography Act and unfortunately we are not even considering the possibility of reconciling civil servants. If he doesn't comply with the autonomous administration with his staff, how will people in this country, men and women, be able to reconcile family and work life? And, of course, that affects the demographic situation of this country, among many other things. We have already described in this plenary the situation, the problem, that suffer people, professionals, who have lives in which contracts are concatenated for decades. And I, taking advantage of this moment and this intervention, want to apologize not only for that matter, but for another. First of all, in relation to what it has to do with staff, we've already said it in its own time. The Board of Auditors perfectly explained that a reduction of 582 medium-sized owners, i.e. increasing each year — and this is referred to in the last exercise — will be made, the possible squares and the plazas will be reduced in ownership. In an autonomous community which has lost 380 million euros in real terms since 2009 and which has also accumulated multiple judgments on the situation in law fraud of many of the contracts of the Galician Health Service. I quote words that come on many occasions in the judgments themselves of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, which speak of the fraud of law, of abuse of law, of deviation of power, of cases that cause prevarication or even of a fraudulent character of possible appointments. We have accumulated a lot of judgments on the concatenation of contracts, on problems with the rights of workers and public workers in the Galician Health Service, and, despite that, we do not feel that the Public Administration is drawing up a plan that avoids continuing with that situation; nevertheless, we are given some accounts that are the only thing they do is to give continuity to a situation, to a problem that has no vision to resolve. As I was referring to now, another element in which they should apologize, but not only that, but that there should be resignation within the Health Council, is public and probably known to all the Members of this House. The revelation of personal data from a worker in the Galician Health Service in a live program in a private channel broadcast in Spain is an absolute disgrace. You can't provide a worker's personal data to try to denigrate her in a television show. That's a barbarity, and someone should resign at the Health Council, well the manager of Sergas, well the director of Human Resources, because that can't be done! [[Applause]] You can try to argue, you can explain a political position, but you can't provide private data because it's a crime, and it's also trying to denigrate a worker who has 400 contracts accumulated in 14 years of profession, and that's the situation of thousands of professionals, in this case a potential nurse who, by the way, once more, six months after that great concentration in Sileda, in the opposition process, went back to the street at all centers to denounce that precariousness is kept at their jobs. And instead of transferring a minimal element of understanding, reporting or saying that you're going to work to reduce that precarious work, you attack them individually, which is the only thing you know how to do. I want to show solidarity with her because I know it's the situation of thousands of fellows, and I'd like to have the People's Party apologize here. Of course, who has to do so is the Government, but they should apologize because I think this attitude is at all unacceptable. And the elements that these professionals are demanding, which are also being claimed by medical professionals, nursing assistants, janitors and janitors and other professional categories in our country, correspond to a lack of foresight and, in addition, an intention not to return the improved employment agreements reached. When the economic crisis began, there were a series of remunerative agreements for the professionals in the Galego Health Service that involved a number of improvements in their wages through the various supplements: the specific, the continuous care supplement, the various plugins related to the characteristics of their jobs, which were planned annually. They meant that in 2009 there would be an increase, in 2010 a further one, in 2011 a further one, and that gradually the wage mass would be updated. That never recovered, and here it was said to be active and passively that there was an economic recovery, which, we insisted, never reached the pockets of the Greeks and the Greeks. In this case, what's happening is that the workers and the public workers who care for our health are precisely the most abused by the self-government, and they don't get returned to them with pay. It seems that trade union agreements do not serve anything before the People's Party, and what happens and what can be justified in paralyzing these agreements during the economic crisis is not recovered when the People's Party claims that the recession of the economy has already ended. We don't know what's going to happen when we get back to having a problem with the country's economy, and it's recommended that cuts be re-adjusted in public administration, because these people don't seem to be able to ever recover their wages or their lives, because the precariousness of work, of course, continues to be despite these announcements of recovery and improvements that never arrive in budgets that are not yet approved, but that — I insist — the only thing they offer is more continuity. Yesterday we gave some example of health centers and continuing care points where there are still problems. There are still problems throughout the province of Ourense in pediatrics, in the whole area of Ferrolterra, in most health centers in our country, and we believe that in reality the lack of stability in employment, the lack of coverage of health needs, it cannot be solved magically, and it needs a planning that, of course, includes the representatives of the workers and the workers themselves and, of course, budgeting. Because that little lady we've been listening to since the People's Party entered the Government, that it's done more with less, it's proved absolutely false, and the loss of more than a thousand jobs in the Galician Health Service subsequently materializes itself in the suffering, suffering!, of the people who are late for their appointments in primary care and radiology. By the way, we have a lot of problems in the Vigo area or in hospital care. We believe, from the Joint Left Group, that it is time for these issues to be taken seriously, that the rights that have been withdrawn from the professions are returned and, of course, that the health personnel needs are responsibly planned.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u185	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u186	Again we talk about job stability, because it is really one of the most pressing problems in our public health, and the trade unions and political groups are demanding a negotiation to end eventuality; the possibility that, as has just been said, the Sergas Council itself pointed out that it has grown, and therefore, in addition, the assertions of both the president and the manager of Sergas who talked about that 85% or 88% — they did not agree — the staff of Sergas had a final appointment, when those reports confirm that temporality is still high and is far from that promised 5%, that 40% of the timeliness in specialized care, and 28.1% in primary. So, as we have already discussed in yesterday's debates, the cuts in public investment applied to the excuse of the crisis — not to end the crisis, but to the excuse of the crisis — have, above all, called for a precariousization of public service personnel. We can talk about Sergas, but as we talked about yesterday too, we can talk about the Social Policy Council and, in general, about the whole public sector. At the end of the day, what was done was to precaritate and charge on the staff an insatiable workload, worth redundancy, with that imposition of rest rates, that labor stress that causes, and compromising the quality of care to the dessert; and besides, as has been explained here on many occasions, even Sergas in fraudulent work practices. The supposed proposals and how many sergas' sire in the form of a continuity contract for the possible nurses could be said to be a joke, they're a bad patch, and they're not going to solve the bottom issue, the impossible reconciliation for most of the staff, the proponent has already signaled it. There are women, above all, who are on those lists for eventual recruitment, which it is literally impossible for them to reconcile their family and personal life, and much less for many of them, girls under 35, to think of having a child or a daughter if they wish. It's infamous, in addition, it's tremendously infamous, what was done with that companion who spoke to the proponent, to reveal personal data in a program. Besides, it doesn't matter whether it was on public television or on private television, but it was the case that it was on private television, and it's really disappointing that this happens. They should ask not only an apology, but also a resignation. But going to the budgets, which is where the reality of commitment to staff stability lies, in 2020 there is no such specific departure proposed by the Left Joint Group for that negotiation, but it does not mean a significant increase in staff. That 3.5% increase in staff spending that we were commenting on in the budget debate, which moved us to the councillor, is largely due to the application of the IPC climb and the acceptance of professional career recognition, so we're talking about staff rights, so many of the announced squares as new -- and this happened, for example, in the Summer Hospital -- it was really just consolidating some place that was covering itself as accumulation of tasks. There is a need for more squares and you really need to bet on the increase in staff and that negotiation. So, without further support, we support the proposal not of law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u187	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u188	Good morning. Indeed, the labor situation of the professionals of public health in Galicia has been the subject of multiple debates in this Parliament, and when there are multiple debates around a subject is not by chance, there is the problem, the first question which would be good for the People's Party and the Government of the Union to take on; and since the problem is not solved, we must continue, insistently, bringing to this Parliament the complaint of the situation and the demand for solutions for this situation. What the People's Party is doing is, first, improvisation, a lack of planning, with which the population is totally unprotected, and also a total lack of respect and consideration for professionals, beyond those recurrent calls to which we have a magnificent staff — which we actually have — who are the best in health — which is indeed so — but, after these suffocates, what would be necessary is measures to improve their working situation, but, after those declarations, the measures never come. They need formulas to give stability, not formulas to perpetuate precariousness; and what the People's Party has put in place are formulas to perpetuate precariousness, continuity contracts that nobody wants, which have a very low acceptance by professionals because they mean not to solve precariousness, but to perpetuate it. The consequence of this is that professionals are at the limit, they are at the limit of their resistance, because continued ill-treatment gives these consequences. There were a lot of professionals -- they knew us at many meetings -- who at first believed the speech that the belt had to be tightened, they had to accept waivers, they had to accept even pay off, they had to accept work above all possibilities, because it was a concrete situation, there was a crisis, there was no money, and then among them all we were going to raise our shoulder. There were people who believed in good faith that this was the stage, but it really wasn't, and in the BNG we already denounced it on multiple occasions. The crisis was the excuse for undermining public health by the fundamental element of public health, which is its staff, and, after the crisis, we are at a time of increasing gross domestic product, at a time of expansive budgets, and it turns out that the problem is not being solved because we don't want to solve the problem, because that was the road map. It is now, in the full debate on the budgets, that we see — as we said yesterday — that there is absolutely no measure, there is no increase in resources to solve that issue. I'll give you a couple of data. The People's Party doesn't want to solve the situation, and it doesn't want to eliminate that practice of abuse in recruiting Sergas professionals. In the first seven months of the year 2019, 68 optional and optional Galicians applied for the certificate of fitness, which we know is the certificate necessary to collect or work outside, and rose 20% as compared to 2018, and the trend continues to grow since 2012. Turns out we have a shortage of professionals, there are no doctors, there are no pediatricians, and it turns out they're still marching outside. If there were decent working conditions here, if there was a decent recruitment mechanism here, would people go out and develop life projects outside? No, I'd stay here, and those outside would come back. But this data actually shows that the People's Party does not want to solve the situation because its roadmap is to facilitate private health. It has already been mentioned, but the report of the Board of Auditors has repeatedly refuted the statements of the People's Party in general, and specifically those of President Alberto Núñez Fexóo. The Board of Auditors, in its audit report, indicates that the timing rates continue to be high, with an average of 40% in specialized care and 28.1% in primary care, which gives an average of 30%. That's the reality, that's the numbers, not the advertising, the propaganda, the whistle. That's the reality of numbers; just like the reality of numbers are the issues that publish and denounce workers and health workers. The nurses' association in struggle, has denounced and hung on their pages what the situation is. They did a survey where it comes out that more than 80 percent of the professionals are considered precarious because they've been on the recruitment lists for years, above the age of ten, and some have been fourteen, because they have contracts in one way... they mentioned an extreme case, a case that we can put on one side of the banana, but that is that this situation is more than abundant.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u189	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u190	So now, in the budget debate, it would be time to resolve the issues. Just as it would be time to resolve the question of why in 2010 the People's Party suspended the compensation agreement with Sergas staff, and ten years later, after the crisis, there is no recovery of that pay agreement that makes Sergas staff in lower wage conditions in many concepts than the rest of the Union staff.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u192	The point is, the People's Party doesn't want to solve the health problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u193	Thank you. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u194	Thank you, President. For one day we share that health is going to be the quietest debate of the day. The environment is a little clichéd, it's much better the hugs than the crispation. The hugs always bring much more peace. We are going to support the initiative, we believe it is relevant. It's an almost eternal debate that we should have, and of course, it's because it's an obvious reality, probably the most serious reality of our health system, the problem of personnel, and especially, within the staff, the problem of precariousness. Before giving our vision, which we basically share views, we also wanted to add to that display of affection and respect for professionals. It's very easy to get up here saying -- as we've heard many times -- that you, when you disagree, are attacking professionals. We can get into these debates at some point, but it's unworthy, it's unworthy that a public body like the Galician Union uses personal data from a professional to attack it live on a television show and that uses its data to try to undermine it when it's showing a reality, with which it can disagree or not, but the objective realities are what they are. Using someone's personal data, spreading it publicly, in addition to probably being a crime, is absolutely unworthy. If anyone has to go to that, and that's what Sergas came to, it's that he's pretty lost and he's falling into a pretty dramatic situation. From our point of view, as we said, this initiative has to do with three issues that we have been insisting on for a long time, and that eventuality is a problem at three levels, let us say. It's wrong from the political point of view; we can disagree if our point of view is wrong. It's fraudulent in terms of management; that seems quite objective. And it's also inescapable from an ethical point of view. Let's explain. It's politically wrong because it causes a loss of quality in the system. When professionals are possible, what happens at a very high percentage, of course not at that 10% or 12% that says to the Union, even though the People's Party then here, when it offers some data, even if they are manipulated, it finally recognizes that it exceeds 20% — as it has acknowledged here a spokesman for the People's Party's health area — so they are already denying the president himself when he claims some other things. Well, that leads to a loss of quality in the system. That the professionals work in permanent instability causes them to have to be in a service today, tomorrow in another place, enter new ones, take time to adapt, that the team procedures remain more and are more inefficient; so we force the system to be on a permanent new day and we can't afford to have a continuous assistance. In addition, there's a conviction over the years of the system, because the eventuality is much easier to implement than to reverse, so we're condemning the system to this. Let's think only of the time we took to train professionals: the MIR exams that end up being carried out and the final processes that end up giving a professional after nine or ten years since he started his training. So even in the next few years we'll have more problems, because we've been completely wrong in health planning in Galicia for ten and a half years. It's fraudulent in terms of management, it's the judges. Fraudulent contract, letter, in judicial judgments. But we already know that the Council's human resources position is: we don't always hire fraudulently. Not always. Not always. Well, that's great! And the counselor's position is, "That's what there is," which is fine, being ironic is very good. "That's what there is." Besides, no one knew how to answer. The other day, by discussing the budgets - well, by debating..., by explaining your opinion, because debate did not debate anything - in the committee, the entire management of the board spoke about the substance of continence about what we were asking. Now, I'm sure you know everyone who's seen the budgets, especially every Member in the area that works the most, that the contingency fund is a separate area, it's a specific program in each area. Not in health care; it's all within the care programs. An exceptionality which the Board of Auditors says must be explained but which no one explains. And it's all there because it's paying for the eventuality, all of Sergas' continence bottom! An absolute inefficiencies, and a recognition that they're using other games to pay for the eventuality they don't want to recognise by another way. Inefficient, fraudulent, these are the qualifications of bodies such as judges or the Board of Auditors. And we said it's inescapable for ethics, basically because of what we started talking about. You can't be attacking, shooting, going against professionals who have a critique of the system and who put papers on the table. It is absolutely unacceptable for the system to shoot at the discrepant. And that — and I'm not going to go into any other qualifications, which has been a little clumsy today — is regrettable. And someone should give some explanation. That if buses and sandwiches are attacking the system, if they put it at risk, if we put contracts on the street, if we teach what they charge, if we say what they say, if the manager or former manager of Vigo's EOXI says that the dismissed have no reason and have no idea of the system... to everyone who disagrees, done!, and so no system can be maintained. It's this council, getting the consensus against it, so they need to change their attitude at least. Today the president spoke of pride, and the truth is he should start looking around his house. We need to take care of those who care for us, who say so many nurses lately, and it looks like a tremendous slogan...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u195	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u196	...fitted for this situation. Take care of those who take care of us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u197	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u198	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. I'm going to focus on the proposition, I'm not going to focus on charges or... I didn't come here for this, I came here to talk about the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that, despite the policies for controlling public expenditure in the period of the economic crisis, reflected in the budgetary laws and derived from the limitations of the effective replacement rates imposed by the State administration, which has produced a reduction in the percentages of labour stability in the national health system as a whole, despite this, opponents of the opposition, in our autonomous community, Sergas, in full crisis, year after year, continued to convene oppositions, continuing to implement public job offers every year, from 2012 until this year 2019, always exhausting the maximum rate of replacement. Mrs. Solla, it's true that it never rains at everyone's pleasure. You have the courage to talk about low planning! In the same year that we are in 2019, 1,314 OPE squares have been offered. These are the numbers of Sergas's job policy and stability planning. Nearly 6,000 places the public job offer to convert 6,000 temporary workers into fixed statutory staff. A few days ago, the Health Counsellor announced, in the appearance of budgets, a new OPE with a call of 1,057 squares in the Greek Health System for the next month of December of this year, and even yesterday 241 new primary health care clinics were assisted. But the OPEs were not the only measure that Sergas took in favour of job stability for its professionals. In April 2017, the Employment Stability Plan and the provision of statutory staff squares were approved, with a total of more than eight hundred squares for greater template stability. These commitments have been implemented as a whole, so eventually eight hundred professionals have become interns and their squares have been offered in the OPEs to consolidate the condition of fixed staff. In 2016 it was signed by most trade union organizations of the sectoral table: CIG, Workers' Commissions, CESM, Omega and UXT the negotiation of the new temporary selection pact, as well as a specific pact signed by the same trade unions in November 2018, which incorporates the optional specialists in the area into the temporary selection list system. You were talking about reconciliation. Now, there are measures such as annual voluntary breaks; guarantees of minimum intervals are also reinforced between the call and effective incorporation of service provision; choice of the health area. And I can tell you other measures. The Sectoral Bureau of Staff has signed with trade union organisations the agreement on the basis of the possible statutory appointment of continuity in the field of the Galego Health Service. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, do you know how many calls from the selection of optional area specialists for interim and long-term coverage have been made in what is going on in the Sergas administrations? They've been 167 calls, and he's still calling. These are real and evident data in Galicia. In Galicia, since minute one, measures are being taken to promote labour stability, it is the central government that is not taking the measures that are repeatedly requesting the Galician Health Service in the Commission on Human Resources of the National Health System to alleviate the shortage of professionals. It is essential that the State eliminate the replacement rate, in such a way that it can be offered in each community all the posts that the care needs are demanding. There's no other way. Lords of the opposition, reflect, think and be critical, but with constructive criticism, making near, not disparaging the excellent health that we Greeks have, as they come to us having become accustomed to. There's nothing good for them. A employment stability plan with a real allocation of 80,000 squares; about 6,000 places the public job supply; a temporary appointment as continuity with a three-year guarantee; trade unions which mostly support these measures with agreements signed at the sectoral table. There are few autonomous communities that devote so much resources to public health. We can talk about the primary care plan, the home hospital plan, and not only will we continue to take action, they are taking over all these years of PP government and they will continue to be adopted in the future. The really worrying thing is that the central government does not exercise its powers or take actions that would help the autonomous communities to cope with the shortage of professionals and achieve higher rates of stability. Mr. Torrado, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos and other possible government partners, if their parties finally arrive at government agreements, they could suggest the elimination of the replacement rate imposed in 2010 by the Government of Mr. Zapatero, this is sole jurisdiction of the State. Since the German Government, it's a matter that's being demanded...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u199	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u200	... repeatedly in the Commission on Human Resources of the National Health System, and, of course, the return of the 700 million that the state administration owes to Galicia for fulfilling the deficit would be an important source of funding for the attention of the public services of the Greeks and the Greeks. Everyone's got theirs. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u201	Thank you. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u202	Thank you, President. I am more than anyone according to abilities, which is a little more Leninist. I want to thank the opposition groups for their support for this initiative... "rin, are you funny?" and move Mrs. Friend, I'm sorry, I'm so sorry that you're using the initiative to throw balloons out. If everyone has to be held accountable, it must be remembered that health competences are from the Autonomous Community and are transferred. I am also not in favour of the replenishment rate, Mrs. Friend, we have defended it since we entered this Parliament, but you cannot articulate all your speech based on this element, among other things, because you haven't been asking for the replacement rate to be removed; you have been asking for the replacement rate to be eliminated since you don't govern yourself, so you don't rule yourself! And the removal of the replacement rate must be asked when the Government is a friend and when it's not a friend, that's the work to be done. The health voices, the health voices, we have an obligation to fight for that replacement rate to be eliminated, of course! but also when the People's Party rules. But don't even look at that element — which, of course, is important — justifying the cuts you have made in budget matters and fraudulent contracts. You missed the opportunity, even if you're not a Government, to apologize or to move that you agreed that the Government should apologize and resign some responsible or some responsible because what happened the other day on television is absolutely unacceptable. And when a politician or a politician is wrong, he has to assume the consequences of that mistake. It can't be, you can't attack the public health professionals and, of course, deny a reality that's there and that you have to put a stop to it. I repeat again, there's no annual OPE. That you paint on a paper the announcement of an OPE doesn't mean that there are tests every year or that these people are incorporated into the system. It's false, it's not true. After the entrance of the People's Party, in my category we did only two tests, and for that, of an absolutely insufficient number of squares to cover the need. So it doesn't matter if you repeat it. If I say every year that I'm going to take out ten squares and I don't call them and they build up, it's obvious that I say every year that I'm going to take out squares, but the reality is that there's no public job offer every year. And you keep repeating it. And, please, annual volunteer rest...! I think it's a joke to the professionals, because there are people who can't decide when they're going to rest because they're still making contracts for law fraud, and still a week ago, a partner was moving that she was being made a contract and they were saying goodbye again. Please let us continue in this situation! There are people who concaten so many temporary contracts of days that they don't have time or possibility to rest. I think they should be ashamed to talk about this. And, of course, if a person — and I'm finished now, that I don't have time anymore — points to the possibility that he won't be called, he doesn't eat, he doesn't eat! And that's a reality. And instead of coming here saying things that aren't, of course, that don't respect professionals...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u203	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u204	...they should say they have to sit down and work with union representatives.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u205	Thank you. Do you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u206	I'm sorry, right now, I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u207	Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the improvement by the Greek Government of health emergency care in the district of Ten, with the provision in Lalin, as head of county, a medicalized ambulance
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u208	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposition Mr. Bará has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u209	Good morning. First of all, I would like to welcome this plenary to the people who accompany us, the neighbouring representatives of the Town Councils of the Ten who are affected by this serious problem. Today we spoke in the morning, in this plenary, about rural care, and I think this is a magnificent example of neglect, neglect and discrimination in many rural areas, especially in the field of health and emergency care. And I want to start by reading them the testimony of an emergency doctor who says, "I've worked for five years in the 10th emergency room. Let's look at the municipalities of Lalín, Dozón, Rodeiro and La Goliath: 40,000 people, 1/3 of the territory of the province of Pontevedra and a population scattered with places within an hour or more of the hospital. I think I've never had so much serious trouble in my professional life. We are dealing with agricultural and transit accidents, serious infarctions and diseases of all kinds and we had to move emergencies to Santiago or occasionally to Ourense from Dozon. I will never appreciate enough the professionalism and solvency of ambulance technicians based in Lalín, in a thousand difficult situations. But I also remember how hard it was to make the decision to mobilize that ambulance, because if you used it with someone who didn't need it strictly, the population was more than two hours away from the emergency transport vehicle and you had to go to Silleda-Cruces or those in Ourense province, which covered other areas. I think the Ten has always needed to strengthen their attention to emergencies." And another recent testimony, last week, also from an ambulance technician in Lalin, dedicated to non-emergency transport, to scheduled transport, says, "We're saturated. Instead of patients, we seem to move cattle." And he refers to the case of a lady from the Golan, who took more than five hours to arrive at her house in an ambulance from Santiago Hospital, where she had come to receive oncoholic treatment. More than five hours to return home after the hard experience of going through an oncoholic treatment at Santiago Hospital. This is the reality of the facts of health care and emergency care in the region of the Ten, where there is a very serious problem that has to do with the lack of coverage, with the large geographic and territorial extension of this region, with the dispersion of population, with the enormous distances and times, so long, to reach those points. In this region there are only two basic life support ambulances, one in Sileda and one in Lalin. The one of Lalin serves the municipalities of Lalin, Roderio, Agola and Dozón, and the one of Silleda, Silleda and Vila de Cruces. Well, referring to the Lalín ambulance, we have to take into account that it serves an area of 580 square kilometers, which means response times in normal conditions that are much longer and dilated than the desirable answer, which should be around 20 minutes. And this is aggravated, moreover, by the obligation to transfer patients both to the reference hospital, which is the Hospital de Santiago, as well as to collect health personnel at the CAP in Lalin, taking into account, in addition, that they have to make urgent transfers of serious and accidental patients, especially with polytraumatisms, or that they have suffered serious illnesses, such as infarctions or strokes. The reality is that the region has this poor coverage, it has these only two ambulances, and it has no medicalized ambulance, which is obvious discrimination with respect to other regions of the country, not only to cities, but to other districts that have this service. In response to this situation, this poor coverage, there is a great social and institutional mobilization -- or there has been a struggle in the past months -- claiming the endowment of this medicalized ambulance for the Ten. I would like to recall, among other things, that there was a plenary agreement of the Lalín Council in July of this same year, unanimously, of all political groups, in favor of the provision of this medicalized ambulance; also of the People's Party, which later we do not know why - or if we know why - has changed position. Well, with this situation, on October 13th, there was a misfortune, the passing of a man in Dozon, after almost an hour of waiting for the arrival of the ambulance, which has once again shown, in a dramatic way, the lack of means with which this region counts. Despite the repeated calls, there was no ambulance available at that time to be able to handle this situation, and when the ambulance arrived this person had already died. This person was called Jesus Pérez García, and by his memory, in the name of his memory, we ask them to put the means to prevent a repetition of a situation like this and many situations also that usually occur like this, that do not end up in tragedy often thanks to luck, chance, and above all to the great work of health emergency professionals. And, look, he clearly told the family of this deceased person, who also gave an example of responsibility and prudence. It's in the press. Very soon after his family died, they publicly said, "If it happens again, there's a minimum of services that we haven't had with him." They pay attention to the cry and demand of this family, which has just suffered such an extremely dramatic situation as the death of a relative. [[Applause]] And, of course, after this tragedy - Mr. Núñez Centeno heads, but it's reality. I just told the family, Mr. Spokesman of the People's Party - it turns out that the BNG is asking here for the improvement of this service, and the President of the Board here pronounced a lie like a cathedral, because he publicly said, in parliamentary headquarters, that the Ten would have a third ambulance, which is missing the truth, because it is not going to be a third ambulance, as it is clear and I had to correct, in addition, the 061 itself; it is a support vehicle, which is not a health transport vehicle. Not used for emergency transport. Besides, it already existed until 2018 and it stopped working because the health personnel didn't want to work with that vehicle because they didn't have the minimum conditions for emergency health transport. The conclusion, after all these weeks of debate, is that the Government of the Union has no intention of equipping the 10th district of any ambulance, conventional ambulance, or ambulance, of course, medicalized. And look at one thing, the cuts in health kill, this is a reality, and we've been testing it all this time, but also the lies, such as those spoken here, are degrading democracy and this Parliament, and above all they degrade who's mind and who's playing with the life and health of people. It's a very serious fact. Well, on October 26th, the BNG introduced a new motion to the Lalín Council, and in this case the position of the People's Party was to vote against the request to the Galician Council for a medical ambulance. I mean, three months later, he wanted to vote. First he supported the medical ambulance and then he voted against it, because we already know who serves the People's Party of Lalin, serves the orders they give him from Santiago, it doesn't serve the people of Lalin. At least the Town Hall of Dozón, ruled by the People's Party, had a little -- at least a little -- of decency and voted in favour of asking for that medical ambulance. [[Applause]] That's why they agree because they vote one thing and the opposite is a few kilometers away. And, of course, the subject is still much more serious, because it's not just about health emergencies, what's in real emergency state in the district of Ten is the health care itself; something, by the way, that happens in much of the country, especially in rural areas, where we see how services are being cut out, personnel in primary care and also in emergencies, even where water enters, which has to be collected with boilers. This has recently happened at the health center in Lalín. The whole thing was what happened this weekend at the Lalín CAP, which was last Sunday hour and a half without any medical personnel because the two doctors were responding to emergencies outside the center. And you know who had to take care of the emergencies during that time? You know who did it? Who did it? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, it was a locker, which had to get in touch with 061 in order to solve the situation. This is not the case of an advanced country, a decent country, a country that has decent health services. [[Applause]] So we can't afford this. That's why we bring this complaint here, and above all why we bring here this proposal, which collects the feeling, the majority and unanimous cry of the 10th district to end this discrimination and to provide this area with a third medicalized ambulance; therefore, to equip this region with means for a decent health, for health emergencies with more means to save lives, which is definitely what it is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u210	Thank you, Mr Bará. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u211	A greeting to the people who are in the rostrum to accompany this fair claim, and theoretically unanimous, of all the political forces of the House. We, of course, agree that Ten needs an advanced life support ambulance, based on Lalin, 24 hours. We also consider that the new 061 competition is clear that it did not solve all the problem of ambulance deficits in the country, because, as needed in Lalín, the new advanced life support ambulances in Monforte and Salnes would need a health emergency technician more on each occasion, just like the rest of the country. And it should also be recovered what the Navy lost, which had two on each turn. In the case of the Ten and the South of Lugo, it also coincides with what we are talking about, as was explained here, a situation that reveals the urgent health-care deficit in rural areas, because, speaking to the staff of 061, we see these situations that there are certain parishes, certain places that exceed the proper intervention times are usual. The region of the Ten is an example of the most acquittal in the country, because it is a vast territory, and it passes also south of Lugo, as it can be in Taboada. There are places in the country where the right times of intervention are exceeded. What happened? That misfortune happened, it happened that a person passed away waiting almost an hour for an ambulance. It is given the circumstance that at that time the two vehicles based on the region were attending other services. And we want to collect that the witness that you read here the proponent about that emergency doctor is significant that this situation in the 10th district cannot continue. In July - indeed, it has already been pointed out - the plenary session of the municipality of Lalín approved a motion urging the Board of Directors of Lalín with a new advanced life support ambulance. That ambulance was announced here by the president of the board, but we see that he was just staying in a backup vehicle. We're talking about a region with an extensive area, which therefore compromises those times of intervention that are vital on multiple occasions. It would seem very simple to us this non-law proposal, because it is simply a matter of respecting the agreements reached unanimously in the Council of Lalin and of meeting an essential demand for such an extensive region with a more resource, and in the budget package it could not even make a big disbursement. So we're just going to support this not-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u212	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez Verao. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left, Mrs Solla Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u213	Thank you, President. I apologize to the presidency and to the amendment, which I have left blank on the previous initiative. We accept the amendment of the previous initiative to the proposal of the Left Joint Group. And, by going to this question, which we have discussed in addition to the Health Committee, we will support this initiative of the Nationalist Block of Wales. I would also like to welcome the presence of the people who come to attend this debate, because we are also talking about a fundamental issue. The truth is, at the request of the technicians and techniques themselves, we have been demanding, by the groups, in the various budgets, various proposals to increase the needs of basic life support ambulances and advanced life support throughout the territory, because there is a deficit in our country. This, moreover, as explained here by the rapporteur, is accompanied by a situation in which, unfortunately, the continuing attention points of this country, as is known by all groups, are suffering from a number of problems that originate discovered in the staff, and that does not make it easy that when basic life-support ambulances that have to equip themselves there are sufficient equipment, because obviously there is no longer enough staff to care for their own emergencies within the continuing care points. So it's logical and normal to ask, given the way that this population has moved, a population that I think is nothing despicable, and in addition to a territory that has a population dispersion and from different groups, I think it's also quite valuable in this sense. This question was also moved, I say, in the debate of the committee, and despite this situation and that unfortunate event where a person died waiting for that assistance, there was not even the sensitivity to understand that this meant that it seemed more than obvious that there was already sufficient evidence that there was a need to provide this resource. And, just as it was exposed in that new contest, the lot that appears within that area of Lalín-Santiago what reflects is, as a supposed improvement, an ambulance of support. Our group has been thinking that for several years - practically since the beginning of this legislation - warning of an element that has been reported by transportation technicians and health emergencies, which is that, in fact, support ambulances should be an individual element, but unfortunately, they continue to be used for the ordinary assistance of emergencies. They're also vehicles that don't count on enough personnel because, as your lordships already know, they only have a technician in those vehicles and therefore they can't provide the same attention as the rest of the units. That is the improvement in this lot for this health area. However, it seems that it was understood, by the intervention of the president of the board, that two plenarys would be equipped with this area of an advanced life support ambulance. That doesn't exist in next year's budgets. And we also saw and discussed how these supposed improvements in the competition meant that in other areas they were withdrawing professionals from these ambulances. I'm not going to insist on this subject here, but we're talking about Foz and we're talking about the various areas that are left without a technician in his advanced life support ambulances. So I think it seems quite reasonable that it is requested for the district of the Ten, taking into account the needs that have just been exposed here and the amount of population existing in the municipality of Lalin and the adjacent municipalities, that vehicle. I think there needs to be a clear debate about the needs of transport in our country. Our group has asked to revert the current situation and to start providing this service from public assistance. But beyond that, when technicians and technicians, health professionals — including those of 061 — have been moving for years that the current allocation is insufficient and that the cuts in the number of ambulances in the early years of the People's Party's Government are accumulated, I think they need to be able to design a planning that is done with the professionals and, of course, taking into account the demands of neighbors. I think they have enough data in relation to the isochrons of attention and, of course, the number of attention given in the municipalities. I think that should be the basis for working on the new health transport map in our country, and it's not being done. And the improvements that the People's Party that have been adopted are really insufficient, because I think we've been claiming for many years now to increase the number of resources. In this case, it's no exception, and unfortunately, things like that have to happen with that person's death to make governments dignify...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u214	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u215	...to take some action in this case. We hope that it will be so and that it will be the same as in the Town Hall. We're going to support this non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u216	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. Mr Torrido Quintela has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u217	Thank you, President. We also welcome the neighbors and neighbors of the region who are here today to observe this debate. We are, of course, going to announce our support for the initiative, as we have already done in the Council of Lalin, and, as it could not be otherwise, we are going to vote in favour because it is an obvious necessity. Clearly not only because we can debate it here — that we can have our information and ideas — but also because professionals ditamine it and because, in addition, the usual criteria used to establish vehicles show that a medicalized ambulance is necessary — even that is the possible debate in this area —. And besides, not only here, but there was already a motion in July in the Council of Lalin, the Socialist Party's proposal, which was supported by all groups. And, specifically, there were interventions that demanded and re-incided in the need of the medical ambulance. Probably one of the most powerful or most clear was that of the spokesperson, the spokesman who spoke at that time of the People's Party, insisting on the need for the medical ambulance. It was very clear at that point and, therefore, we understand that it is a demand of the People's Party too. The question is, why don't you put it? You've probably got to see that, you know, what I'm going to read here, with a little excerpt that says, "We'll negotiate the improvement of coverage with the provision of a medical ambulance," which we'd all agree with. You must also agree with the People's Party because it's your election program in Lalin. However, not long after that, they announce an improvement that is not an improvement, that is to put on a vehicle of support; by the way, that it already existed and that it was taken away. It's tremendous to withdraw a vehicle, put it back on and announce it as an improvement. That's what happened, what Mr. Feijóo announced here, sliding it, and probably intending some media to transfer it as a medicalized ambulance, because, in the end, the only concern of the People's Party about this, for now, was the newspaper owner; the concern for the case, zero. So if they have demanded it and expressed it in an election campaign, if they have voted in favour of it in the Town Hall, they will vote in favour; and, most importantly, they will put it into action, and therefore they will actually put in place this medicalized ambulance, which they say is necessary. That will show, first, that it is not what was proposed; and second, that here Mr. Feijóo said something that was not true. In any case, if we finally succeed in shaping the evidence, in front of the People's Party, that need, welcome. But we do want to point out that it's important that they don't have to happen -- it's said here -- cases so to have this debate. And I'm not going to get into the issues that were already very debated, but there was also a case of urgent attention on the Road a little longer than had a fatal outcome. Look, what I want to focus on is that it's a very close area, and when there's a demand, like the one that happened that day at Dozon, if it had been possible, it would have come some vehicle from the Road, but it was busy at that time. By the way, one of the explanations was that the vehicles were busy; of course, that shows that there's some more to it, because they're usually very busy. But, returning to the Road case, it's an outline that has some conditions. In Galicia there are very common conditions throughout the territory, especially in rural areas, but in this it is very evident because they are populated places, with many distances, with very complicated roads, especially in winter — although in some cases it may also happen perfectly in spring or summer — and in addition to very difficult transit. Therefore, distances cannot be measured in an office in San Caetano with a Google Maps; that is to say, we have to take into account what professionals say, that it's not the same thing to do 15 kilometers in the Ten that makes 15 kilometers bordering La Coruña or Vigo. It's not the same; therefore, we have to consider these things, which are not being kept, and that's why what happens. We have to try to get out of the headline and not run an election campaign saying that you're going to sue, in addition to the medical ambulance, also the integral health center. But that gives for file for another day and, curiously, it only appears in budgets when ruling the People's Party in Lalin; then it disappears. But, well, that's another debate. So let's see that this is a specially needed area of an ambulance; medicalized would be a great decision, as in other cases, that they had to be persisting. Even some of them still put in that new invention, which is the sanitization, that doesn't have a doctor. Therefore, it is not medicalized, but takes health care, it is sanitized — inventing intermediate terms. The emergency health transport vehicles are a system that is well thought out, well designed, but poorly applied, because they don't have enough resources.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u218	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u219	And what we demand is that, for it to be applied properly, it has the necessary resources. That is why we will vote in favour of this initiative, which, as has already been voted on by all, we understand that we will all vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. Mr Núñez Centeno has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u221	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Good morning to the people who come from Lalin. "To urge the Government of Spain to remove from the legal system the restrictions imposed on autonomous communities by limiting the rates of replacement of squares in the national health system, when they affect stable jobs." Mrs Solla, it was adopted at the plenary session of the Parliament of Galicia on 22 March 2017 — understanding that, if approved, it was with the vote of the People's Party. You didn't tell the truth in your previous intervention. Mr. Bará, it's visionary that you of primary care don't know much; it's obvious. And when there are 2 doctors or 3 doctors in a CAP and there are three demands for assistance, do you think a doctor can stay in the CAP? That's a crime. I work in a center where there are only three guards doctors, and in punctual situations we go out the three guards doctors, no one can stay there, because that's a crime. Today we are debating an initiative here in connection with the death of a person in the Dozon Town Hall for a picture of gravity, coinciding with the presence of the two 061 ambulances in the region in no case of emergencies. And, on the basis of this event, the Galician Nationalist Block claims to provide Lalín with a medical ambulance. I understand that you should say an advanced life support ambulance, because all ambulances, Your Honor, can be medicalized, and you're medicalized. They collect the PAC staff or the corresponding health centre. It's done on numerous occasions, and I, as a doctor, have looked at these ambulances at multiple emergencies. The Galician Public Emergency Foundation continues to analyse the evolution of the urgent transport network and evaluates the number of services, the time of occupation of these land and air resources, the times of response to emergencies and, as well, other variables such as demographic changes or activities or situations of certain municipalities. And, on the basis of all that data, the requirements and requirements for transport contests are laid down. The current one is starting on these dates; by the way, with a 50% increase in the cost of the current one. This new contract saw an increase in the number of basic and advanced life support ambulances -- 1 basic and 6 advanced -- and also the increase in the hours of three other ambulances that were already included in the contest. And, in addition, it led to the recruitment of 24 nurses, 12 doctors and about 100 technicians in health emergencies. If we look at this initiative, in the region of the Ten, at present, the emergency and emergency extra-hospital health are attended by the ambulances of Lalin and Silleda, as it has been said, some parishes of Vila de Cruces receive assistance from an ambulance in Arzua and others from the municipality of Agolada, in Pontevedra, are attended by the ambulance of Melide. The new contract, ladies and gentlemen, was drafted according to the data of the services provided in each county. And here we talked about a lot of things, but we didn't talk about data. In the case of the Lalín ambulance, the use of ambulances was evaluated in 2017 and 2018, and the average round of 6 daily care; in the case of the Silleda ambulance, around 5 daily care. That's data. The service figures and times of occupation for the year 2019 are strictly equivalent to those for the years 2017 and 2018. In the specific case of the Dozon Council, the Dozon Council used Sergas ambulances on 69 occasions in 2018, an average of 0.18 attentions per day; and in which we have taken from 2019, 57 attentions, which makes an average of 0.19 attentions or uses of the ambulance per day. That company, in fact, which is the company that helped this new contract for this region, included how to improve a new support ambulance based in Lalín, which will be mobilized in cases where the resources of the area are occupied. And those support ambulances, what are they used for? They are used when the 061's own means are occupied in transfers of patients who have already been seen by their headmaster or emergency physician and have to go to the hospital with non-excessive paintings or to pick up and transfer to the homes the health care professionals when they are asked to assist by 061, medicalizing that ambulance. I don't know, it's said here that they're transports, that they're support vehicles, that they're support ambulances. They are support ambulances and exist in many municipalities of Galicia. In the territory of the Ten and in the rest of the districts, there are the necessary means for the initial care of patients who have suffered a cardiorespiratory arrest and have technical staff trained in cardiopulmonary resuscitation and semi-automatic defibrillator, complying with the law and the regulations in force. That new ambulance that now goes into the contract would have come -- medicalized -- after collecting professionals in the health center, to any emergency or emergency like the one that happened in the morning of the 13th day in the Dozon Town Hall. In any case, 061 facilitated the information and is investigating, studying and analyzing the case. I think no one has any doubt that the health advisor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u222	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u223	...—Finished, President—will put the necessary means, in any case, if the usage data in the 10th County or occupation is superior. This past few days we know the sad news of a boy's death in Burela at the school entrance.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u224	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u225	Neither the rapid performance of a teacher with a defibrillator nor the arrival of an ambulance in five minutes, nor the presence in the same municipality of a hospital...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u226	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u227	...they were enough to avoid the fateful outcome. What we would have heard in this Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, if this incident...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u228	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u229	...if produced in any other municipality of Galicia! We ask them not to demagogy with tragic situations like this.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u230	Thank you very much, Mr. Centeno. Your turn is over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u231	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u232	Mr. Bará Torres has the floor for the initiative's group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u233	Well, Mr. Núñez Centeno, you have come here to teach lessons, but you have not denied any of the very serious accusations and allegations made by the BNG in this gallery about the shortcomings and inefficiencies of the emergency service, primary care and emergencies in Lalín and in the district of the Ten; you have not been able to give any reply to these charges. And you said that when there are emergencies and there are two doctors who have to get out -- I asked that question -- Well, logically, they have to go out. But I'll ask you one question: do you have to take care of the emergency room? Is that the response that the People's Party and the Galician Union have to address emergencies, that a celler cares about people who can go there with serious illness? [[Applause]] Is this the emergency care model that the People's Party has? You should have fallen in shame, because if there's only two, it turns out there's got to be more, because we're talking about a region that has a particular situation and has serious deficiencies in emergency care. By the way, also because you've been boycotting for years a solution to that neighborhood for a strictly partisan motivation. They paralysed a health-care improvement project in the district of the Ten and in the municipality of Lalin because it changed the Government, when the Town Hall had an investment made to put the land and make the new center; a new center that is in the budgets of the next year, but we'll see when it is executed, because of course, the game that is there is for a long time you trust me. Look, I'm also going to explain a question to you. We did not ask for this resource now because there was a death, unfortunately; we asked for it in July, we said it here. There was a unanimous plenary agreement of the Lalín Town Hall in which the People's Party was also involved. [[Applause]] The demagogues are you because at that time they voted in favour of an initiative, indeed, of the Socialist Party, which was amended by the BNG to put into agreement the medicalized ambulance, which was not — I have here the agreement, Mr Torrado, and then I will give you a copy. There was not that advanced life support ambulance in that proposal that I had made, but it's the same, it's an agreement from the entire corporation, also from the People's Party, and you're now out of that agreement. And you know why? Because the Lalín people, the Lalín PP, gave Santiago's orders that it should not be supported now. But it was an agreement before this misfortune happened, and situations like this are going on in the usual way, unfortunately. It's not occasional, it's usual, as it happened at the Lalin CAP this Sunday. So it's about finding a definitive solution to these problems, and that's why we propose an agreement. By the way, with regard to the support vehicle, I have here the resolution of 061. And here you put: availability of additional vehicles, a vehicle to perform support services to the emergency health transport network. It's not an urgent health transport vehicle, it's a support vehicle.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u234	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u235	Besides, it has a temporary availability of 70%, it's not even all the time devoted to these needs, when there's all these problems.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u236	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u237	That's why we propose an agreement which you say is to sue the board -- hopefully you support it -- a medicalized ambulance -- we can also say of "advanced vital support"...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u238	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u239	...we know how to say it, but you understand better "mediculate" -- for this neighborhood, which is much what you need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u240	Thank you very much. We greet the students of CEIP Plurilingual from Ribeira, Porriño, 5th and 6th primary students. Welcome to this session of Parliament on behalf of all. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Luisa Pierres López and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in order to encourage the supply of long-term housing
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u241	Two amendments were tabled, one from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and the other from the Galician People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u242	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Pierres López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u243	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. Welcome to the students of the Porriño and also welcome the representatives of the municipalities of Santiago and Marín; both municipalities, in addition, are representative of the different housing problems that are taking place in Galicia and for them this initiative could assume a very important impulse. We have expressed it on different occasions and, as it continues to happen, we will continue to warn about this issue, and it is that the government housing policy of Feijóo shows us year by year how it remains alien to people's reality and is unable to give effective answers to real problems, because the housing problems in Galicia are not imaginary, can't be maquilled, they reflect perfectly on the figures, those that we can speak of today perfectly. On the one hand, it increases the demand for public housing at affordable prices month by month, exactly in order to 140 new applicants a month, about 5 new applicants a day since May 2018, with an increase in all these months of nearly 2,500 new applicants, which results in a total of 14,332 applicants a day. There are several ways, therefore, that we must work to address the needs of these demanding families, and one of them - perhaps the most urgent - is the mobilization of the empty housing park throughout Galicia, not only to respond, in addition to the most vulnerable groups, which we understand must of course be a top priority for any government, but to solve the needs of the entire Greek society, because it is obvious — I repeat — today that there is a lack of long-term housing supply in the free market is to address not only a current problem but also a future problem. And it is that the dynamics that are being given, such as the conversion of offers in urban centres of long-term renters into tourist rentals, as in the city of Santiago, or the reluctance to rent in front of the sale, as in Marín City, and the persistence of undeclared renters as well, are announcing us a re-enactment of this situation and the chronification, in addition to the same: the announcement, on the one hand, of the increase, as I said, of the number of applicants, that rises day by day, with these 14,332 families — because we are talking about families — and on the other hand, that provision of only 3,900 housing for long-term rent throughout Galicia in August of this year. I mean, not only is there not enough public housing, but it's still only 1% -- not even 1% -- of the total precision. And not even with the free housing offer would cover 30% of the existing global demand for social housing and which affects all those who find themselves, in addition to the search for housing process to form a family, to work, to emancipate themselves or to ultimately develop their life plan. While this happens, we see how our cities count on a housing park that should be able to absorb these demands and yet there are many real estates that appear as empty. Without going further, and according to the latest data provided by the INE, in Santiago there would be about 9,000 empty dwellings; in Pontevedra, for example, about 7,000; in the Coruña, about 19,300; and in medium-sized municipalities, as may be the case of Marin, about 2,000. These are representative figures of the high percentage of empty housing in Galicia, which reaches a total of 300,000. But the problem is not small and even more serious if you look at the reality of supply consumption in this type of housing; some consumptions that show how in the main cities of Galicia about 40% of the supposedly empty housing are not, thus revealing a supposed uncommunicated situation of occupation of a very high percentage of dwellings, which, in our view, is also frankly worrisome, because behind many of them there are contracts in precarious leases, therefore, deprotection in the rights of tenants and avoid taxes as well. But beyond this question, which would in itself deserve another initiative that calls for greater monitoring and control, we understand that we need to go directly to the main reason that prevents or free people from entering their home in the rental market circuit, which, as we have indicated, is a very high percentage, and we have to do so, of course, from the incentive rather than from the sanction. Because, let's not be mistaken, let's not be naive, and let's think that the decision that seems to have been chronicled and extended between many owners and owners not to incorporate their housing into the offer of the rental market has an explanation that can be capricious or simply inappetence. There is a basic principle that all and everyone think we understand well, and is that any owner wishes to obtain fair profitability for his home, and not always in order to gain extra income from support for the family economy, which is totally lawful, but that it is many of the small owners who recognise to aspire so alone and content themselves with the sufficient expenses to ensure the maintenance of his home in time, thus waiting for it to be in a future inherited by a family; a situation which, of course, in Galicia is very, very common. [[Applause]] So let's make it clear that having an empty and out-of-market housing means not only giving up income, but also costing maintenance and thus also loss of wealth. So why does this happen? What leads you to make that decision to so many landowners? For since our group we have made it clear that one of the great reasons behind this is legal insecurity in the face of default. This, coupled with the fear of assuming the cost, for example, of defects that may suffer from real estate, is the maximum reluctance and caution that the owners claim. The reality is that there are several autonomous communities that have already put in place measures in this direction, and they are looking for help for owners of empty housing in order to cover 100% of the amount of an insurance contract against default and also on basic issues such as possible breakdowns, vandalism repairs, loss of receipts of housing supplies, legal defence or even closing costs. And they're also looking for help in the packaging works of these dwellings, which they need to set up. In Galicia, we are aware that these types of measures are contemplated in the Empty Housing Program, but the restrictions of this program, with its income limitation at a maximum price, demotivate many people who own the dwellings, who, either by quality or by the surface of their dwelling, believe that they could aspire to income above those marked, because it is simply said by the market, and that in the best case they would turn the 450 euros in the main cities of Galicia. A round of prices that ignores - and that is why we were talking about the failure of reality of this government - the reality of that real market and the differences between areas in cities, being the central areas, in addition, the ones that suffer the most from these increases and the loss of housing that are intended directly for the tourist rent. Since our group we have done a market analysis of many of these towns and cities, knowing that the government doesn't make it easy. And the reality is that in the city of Coruña only 7.8% of the housing currently offered would meet the basic requirements of the Empty Housing Plan; in the city of Pontevedra only 8.5%; in Santiago de Compostela, an average of 21% and in Marin, 20%. Something that shows how the most populated cities in Galicia are more distant in their reality from those income limits marked by the Empty Housing Plan, and that those that meet these prices are inhabited, in addition, of small dimensions, including studies. This is something that doesn't value the empty housing plan itself, thought more of for social rents and families who need rent help. So what we're proposing today is basically to mobilize the whole of the Greek housing park to meet the needs of all and of all and to ensure, on the other hand, the sustainability of our cities, with much more focused maintenance in time and in the whole of the real estate park, avoiding massive degradations and also balancing in a natural way the prices of the housing-free market. And we propose it by opening the empty housing plan's help to all the houses that are shown to be empty, without limiting the incomes that mark this plan and which clearly limits access to medium-priced housing. Because this plan, of what we have already expressed its ineffectiveness on repeated occasions and which has only managed to mobilize a decade of housing throughout Galicia, is obvious to the reality of our towns and cities. And it's just that there are many people who understand more attractive to incorporate their homes not so much to long-term rent, but rather to rent as tourist housing, for profitability, but also for the best availability of housing. It therefore seems necessary and urgent to try to shift the interests of the owners of the tourist rental and to reduce mainly the risks they take when offering their housing for long-term rent. That's why we call for the launch of this specific aid plan for mobilisation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u244	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u245	...of empty dwellings and for their rental for all private housing that, having a proven precondition...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u246	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u247	...of empty housing, if they're going to be destined for long-term rent, and we ask them to contemplate, at least...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u248	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u249	...the coverage of multi-risk insurance covering, at least, the risk of loss of income...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u250	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u251	...or repairs for vandalism, defection, legal defense and lock-up expenses...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u252	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u253	...and finished, President—as well as limited economic aid for postage works to the point of residence prior to their rental. Nothing else for now and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u254	Thank you very much. Mr Bará Torres has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u255	We have to say again in this gallery that it is absolutely scandalous, that it is absolutely pornographic, that it is a fundamental right, as is that of housing, that it is also recognised in the Constitution - only you are interested in the Constitution to give it to others - if it is becoming a scandalous business in the hands of the bank and large companies, of international investment funds, which are taking millions and millions of euros of benefit at the expense of the suffering of people, who are expelled from their homes and who have no access to housing, especially new people, because it cannot devote 40% of their income to housing, or that student, who is expelled from the city of Santiago to favour the business of the apartments of tourist rent. Because, of course, if we leave the housing in the hands of the market, the market wants the maximum benefit, and the maximum benefit is in the housing of tourist rent. That's why there has been an excessive increase in prices over the last few years, which reaches up to 30%, and also the contraction of the offer, which has been absolutely brutal in the last three or two years, because 60% of the apartments on the rental market have moved to the tourist lease. And we have right now -- it's data from the Observatory -- 3,500 homes throughout Galicia in the offer of renting apartments. If we add to this the drastic reduction in public investment in housing, especially on the part of the People's Party's Union, and another factor of what we've never talked about, what we're not talking about, which is precariousness, the drop in wages, the reduction in incomes of the working class and of the new people, we explain this absolute perfect, pornographic storm, of what we're talking about at first. And, of course, we see how this happens while these large multinational companies, those investment funds, that bank -- the bank that received 60 billion euros -- go along with those millionaire profits and assumes, in addition, those millionaire benefits in the stock exchange; those Socimi awarded and enhanced by the governments of turn that currently have around 40,000 apartments in property in the Spanish state. And here we have to say that they have failed all the public policies carried out by the governments of the state, by the governments of the Union, because they have not applied the basic principle of social housing policies, which is that there has to be massive public intervention in this market and that it cannot be in the free market where these real pirates come here to loot their income and take the money to, by the way, tax havens, that are where they have their headquarters. First of all, we have to talk about the cause of this problem, which is the legislative reforms that the People's Party has made, such as the reform of the Law on Urban Rentals, which has had that effect during the past years of rising incomes by reducing the rental deadlines; that legislation on the Socimies that approved the Socialist Party and then further refined the People's Party; the reduction of public investment; the very low levels of public housing construction in Galicia; or the insufficient rental aid, now increased with the new State Housing Plan, when many specialists say that they have an effect contrary to the rise in rental prices, because these public aids ultimately move to the end price of the rent. And let's no longer say the streptile failure -- today morning's president of the "triumph strepitious"; this is a new concept, that of the use of antithesis, isn't it? Because, as you know, what they are peculiar are the failures -- of the Empty Housing Program, presented by the People's Party as the great star measure of this legislation to solve this problem, and where first failed was where it first applied, in the City Hall of Ourense, ruled by the People's Party. Finally, we have to say that it gives us a lot of doubts about this proposal that it makes... even if we're going to approve it. We have certain cautions and certain doubts, because we see too many similarities with the empty housing programme, precisely failed, which contemplated several or similar measures to guarantee... Of course, we find it absolutely unrealistic to attempt to get these 300,000 empty dwellings on the market, because there are very different situations there, and for us the priority must be to put on the market - what experts say - about 20,000 dwellings, which would actually allow us to face with guarantees and with certain flexibility a solution to this problem and attack there the hard core of speculation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u256	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u257	...which is the housing that is owned by the bank and owned by those speculators, large investment funds, and making that housing a social plan...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u258	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u259	...of renting housing, and making it possible...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u260	Thank you very much, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u261	...for that vast majority of the population that now has no access. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u262	Thank you very much. Mr. Castineira Broz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u263	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Pierres, I have to say that from one part of the analysis that you did we have already talked out and, looking at what was the amendment we tabled, I tell you that I agree with you in one part. Yes, I agree, because it's a reality, and, when there are realities that are said, I think we should recognize them. There's a problem, especially in the cities of the Atlantic Axis, as far as renters are concerned; it's a reality. And it's a reality that the increase in tourist use of a series of homes that were previously residential and are now devoting themselves to this use, logically, is increasing housing prices. But also - and it must be said - the municipalities, in this case all governed by the left progressive - superprogressor, according to Pedro Sánchez - have a clear responsibility on these issues, because we all know, and you know how I am - if there are representatives of the Town Hall of Santiago I am very glad that you are here, to whom you have greeted, and I greet you, too - that you simply have to apply the municipal ordinances so that this diversion of residential use does not go to tourist use. They're totally different uses. A residential use cannot be a tertiary use, and that sets it up to the Land Law and clearly establishes it. If the general plans or special plans governing this of the councils do not contemplate that ordinance -- I don't know that of Santiago, in this case, because you put it as an example --... would the same thing happen in the Coruña, in Vigo or in Pontevedra -- well, in Pontevedra, they hardly have it anymore, I don't know if you have any orders, because it's from the catapum year and, although it's been many years, so we'll update it? -- But logically, it's a problem that corresponds to the municipalities, and we can't tell the board to organize what is the restructuring and residential distribution of the municipalities. That's from the council and it's a competition -- but I'll always defend it -- from municipal autonomy. So if there's a part that corresponds to the municipalities. There's another one that logically corresponds to the Board, and in this case, as you well said, the Empty Housing Program; an empty housing program that you want to extend to all dwellings, without limit. Man, I think, coming from the left, after what we heard here... If the People's Party is going to propose it, they'd say that what we want is to make a ball for the rich, who have the houses, and give them money to fix them and then rent them for 2,000 euros, for example, a month. If we don't limit our income, you tell me how to avoid that. If there has to be a income limit. Our amendment is going to increase that limit. Yeah, if we can talk about it. In fact, I understand that if you're talking by the Galego Institute of Living and Solo even to the Town Hall of Santiago to see how those income limits are adjusted, because I think that should be done. In fact, it's not the 450 euros we're talking about here; you can increase the request of a municipality justifiably right now to 15%. But that's why we could raise it more if it's justified that they're actually not... 15% would be 517 euros. In our amendment we propose to raise it to 20%, with which, we would go to 540 euros. Maybe it's scarce even, it might be, even if I could study raising it more. But a limit we understand that there has to be and, in fact, there are in all the cities or autonomous communities of Spain that have direct help in this way. What about the insurance? Yes. As for another type of housing for a wider market, I've already told you, and I'll tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Board is currently doing studies to see how you can expand that empty housing pickup, from the empty housing park. And I also want to tell you one thing, and it's that you refer here in your proposal, for example, to that "their rental for all private housing that, having a proven precondition for empty housing, is going to be used for rent." Home, there are houses that can be rented. If at a certain point the lease contract ends, those dwellings in principle would not have the condition of empty dwellings - for which we normally speak of permanent empty and unoccupied housing, so to speak - but these dwellings will have the right to help, in this sense, insurance, etc., like the others. We can't suppress them. On the other hand, you raise the costs of housing supplies. Supply is named after the tenant, except for water and garbage, which they are municipal and therefore apply to the owner in case there is no payment from the tenant. But for that, there's no insurance right now -- or at least, I don't know any -- multi-risk that cover those defaults. We have to be realistic. And then what I was saying to you is, limited economic aid for the housing-conditioning works, yes, but always and when we have income limits, if we don't put income limits, we can't talk about it. That's why Junta has the program of empty housing, yes, with income limits and, essentially, for those most vulnerable families, for those that are more applied to the social rent bonus...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u264	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u265	...—now finished, Mr President—where you can get an economic aid of up to 50% of what the rent costs. I mean, we're talking about if a rent costs 450 euros, for example, it would have a help for six years of 225 euros a month, in addition to a help for...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u266	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u267	...the initiation, formalization of contracts, etc. Thank you very much. I feel we won't agree with our amendment. And logically...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u268	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u269	...we're telling you that we're not willing to give economic aid and fix all dwellings, the free pipe, and the homes of those owners who can fix them perfectly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u270	Thank you very much, Mr. Castineira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u271	Thank you very much. Mr Villares Naveira has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u272	How are you? Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Castineira, I am partially in agreement with your speech. It's a shame that the results of Galician housing policy are not others and practice dismisses them, but, of course, we share a part of what you have just said, a part of your speech, with so much to what risks it is necessary for us to take together all through this kind of stimulus and whether these risks should be conditioned or limited depending on the characteristics of the owners. It seems to us an elementary situation. In general, our country's housing policy is an insufficient housing policy, not to mention failure. It demonstrates the fact that -- and I remember it this morning at the first hour -- there are 13,000 applicants for housing at the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo that, having the right, fulfilling all legal requirements, can't access one of them and therefore looking for public channels to satisfy a fundamental right, such as that of article 47, that of access to a decent housing -- a basic right -- they can't do it. Also the fact that Caritas reported in the last year that there are nearly 1,400 people in Galicia without a registered home and that they would therefore be likely to be housed on any of the floors that the Public Administration could handle, because it shows this situation. Finally, the fact that the average emancipation of young and young gales extends to the age of 31 certainly reveals structural deficiencies. We agree with a part of the initiative on the need to mobilize the use of empty housing. We agree, and for that there are several types of measures, measures that are positive stimulus and those that are tax stimulus, in addition to better legal regulation throughout the sector. And I'm saying the whole sector because it seems -- and even you can understand it -- that we're talking about a change of use of that housing that's empty to discourage, in some ways, this touristic use for a use of residential housing for third people. It is something that has not just been connected afterwards causally — and also with the limitations to which Mr. Castineira referred — regarding the proposed measures. We believe that this proposal only partially covers the problem, it contemplates the path of incentive in a very concrete way. But we think that this is necessary to complement it and that an integral formulation should be made, with an improvement in the regulation of various uses, because if it is establishing - it appears in the exhibition of reasons - an alternative use, the use of tourism, or the habitual housing for third persons, and, therefore, an appropriate tax regime for that alternative use is being sought, to disincentive it, to reduce the number of dwellings devoted to that alternative use of tourist character by percent, improving also fully its legal regime and, finally, making the rents that are not declared to be better inspected. The proponent himself spoke of a 40% supposedly empty housing which was not really such, which was a problem not only for the tax, but also for the rights of the people who are occupying those housing and who through that occupation satisfy a basic right, as in article 47. We understand that, besides all this, it is necessary to talk about the fundamental problem, which is that of the formation of a real public housing park that allows certain especially vulnerable groups to leave the housing market completely and that therefore they can access it by a different way and not by the simple market of supply and demand. For this reason, we, as it is formulated, are not going to support it because we understand that it is an insufficient measure that contemplates only one part. We will not oppose what is going on, but of course, it seems to us that it is contemplated in an incomplete way and in a way that is not entirely consistent with the principles - as announced - of fiscal justice, which should be the stimulus to the use of empty dwellings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u273	Thank you very much, Mr. Villares. Mr Sánchez García has the floor for the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u274	Good morning. Sometimes it gives the feeling that when we discuss housing, it's a technical and non-political matter, as if things are not going on in this country. I was in Vigo last Friday in a concentration to defend a family, a father and a mother with two daughters, one 7 and another 13 years old, who perceive a Risga and who will be evicted, if no one prevents it, next week. This couple goes to Vigo Town Hall and goes to Galician Union and what they get are answers that to me they are to laugh at people, to completely disregard the suffering of people. The Vigo Town Hall tells them to give them a three-month rental help if you get a rental home. Making a risk and in a situation that prevents them from paying rent in the city, because it's a solution! And on the other hand, the Galician Board tells them or they go to the Village of Cruces to a public promotion house — the Village of Cruces, more than 100 kilometres away — or that they look in Savera de Mine, which are cheaper houses than in Vigo. And this is happening -- it's not an isolated fact -- every day in this country, and it's just a coincidence. And not because there's no technicians who know what to do, it happens because there's a political will to benefit one another's interests. [[Applause]] Yesterday, the data from the Tax Agency was published and they said -- and this is no accident either -- that big builders, those who charge more than EUR 1 billion, pay an average tax rate of 0.63%. And that's not random, either, because during legislation after legislation from governments it has been legislated in favor of these interests. It's no coincidence, it doesn't happen from day to day, it happens because they legislate in favor of those interests. And also comes here Mr. Castineira as if he wasn't a member of a group that supported a government that did the terrible housing policies all these years and says it's the city council's fault. Town Councils have their share of responsibility, you take yours. If you can't regulate wages -- there's still a lot of wages that you don't give to live -- if there's people who are unemployed for more than two years, if there's people who are taking a risk that doesn't reach 600 euros when rents go up and you can't regulate wages, what have you done to regulate the rental market? Tell me a measure. There are several, they are not in favour of regulation by law, as is done in Germany, France and in many European countries. They are not supporters of public housing promotion, there are 3,600 dwellings of the Galician Union all over the country, in all insufficient light. They are not supporters of the official shelter, which has been paralysed since they arrived in the Government: in 2015, 5 homes throughout Galicia of official protection, 4 in 2016, 5 in 2017. That is the pace of construction of official protection since Mr Feijóo arrived and ordered the policy of public housing to be stopped. They were also not in favour of applying a local farm law of 2004, which made it possible, if the concept of housing for large owners was defined, to apply a charge so that it would not be as cheap to have an empty house to speculate that it would be placed on the market. So what you don't want is to take any measure that regulates prices because it would mean affecting the benefits of these companies that I said pay the tax rate of 0.63% and that they doubled their profits in 2017. And the rest are excuses for bad payers, advertising policies and propaganda to try to avoid the electoral wear they might expect. But you are able to invisibleise this drama, to invisibly the problem of people like this Vigo family. They're already satisfied, they don't care about anything, and that's why they've never done anything for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u275	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u276	Yes, thank you, President. First of all, of course, I would like to thank the explicit support of the BNG; it was not clear to me whether it was the Joint Group. In any case, we know that this proposal would be improved and complementary to many others that should also be put in place, so we also regret that the express support of the government group has not been given especially to this proposal. In fact, there are several groups that seem to claim certain reluctance; the "free dog", which Mr. Castineira defined. And the truth is, we also have resistance to that "free dog" because we understand that a kind of help like this could be within a competitive regime call to which owners with lower rent rents, something as simple as that. I'm sorry to hear this kind of tool for the possible calls there could be for this kind of help, and what's worse, which, in his opinion, doesn't even present a amendment. That's what really hurts me. We, the Socialist Party, will continue to act on a proposal—of course yes—and we will continue to implement measures that we believe benefit the Greek citizenship, and also measures that are not a lot of sirens, but are quantified and, yes, meditated. A meditation that, frankly, I did not see in your amendment proposal, Mr. Castineira, in which only with that increase of 15% to 20% of what you talked about and that they proposed would favour the mobilization of 1% in addition to the entire park that needs to be mobilized. Do you know how many housing companies would opt for aid with their proposed increase? Only 12 in Coruña, 2 in Marín, 4 in Pontevedra and 14 in Santiago. I think that's pretty bad to me. I don't know what it looks like to you. It seems to me to be a real mess. Do you realize the low incidence of what they propose and the little thoughtful also what their proposal is? You tell me you're already working that way, and I can't help thinking that I hope it's with something more realism than what shows me your proposed transaction, frankly insatiable by totally diverting our proposal. With our initiative, open to all the empty dwellings in Galicia so that they could choose — that is what we are talking about — those aids and not just a few, could favor, with only 1 million euros, the mobilization of 3,000 homes; 1 million, 3,000 homes, It does not really seem an excessive budgetary effort, it will agree with me, frankly, Mr Castineira. Of course, it seems to us that it would be a much better destination than that million euros were given to the 21 million euros not executed in 2018 on housing. That's why I recommend you do your homework, because every day it's more people who need housing and it's less the offer. Every day it's more difficult to find a home of less than 500 euros in the main cities of Galicia, and every day you show us that you're far away -- and I'd even say they're overpassed -- for a reality that's always 100 steps ahead of this government. They take the rhythm, they stop saying what they're doing, because that's what they're doing doesn't reassure this group or about 45,000 Greeks and Greeks who wait to access a housing at a affordable price. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u277	Thank you. About the amendments? PP's doesn't accept it, but Block's does. Do you accept it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u278	Yes, we're going to accept the BNG amendment, which we believe complements this initiative as well...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u279	Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u280	...and, of course, reject that of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u281	Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Daniel Vega Pérez and 14 other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament in relation to the proposal for a Statute for Electrointensive Consumers drawn up by the Government of Greece, as well as the demands to be made by the Council of Galicia to the Central Government on this subject.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u282	There are amendments by the Bloc Parliamentary Group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Joint Parliamentary Group, with the appropriate wording of the Bureau's amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u283	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u284	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, it is up to us to talk again about the electrointensive industry in this House. Of course, for this parliamentary group it is essential to speak again about Alcoa, because, after one year of the beginning of the Alcoa factory conflict in Coruña and Avilés, there is no solution on the table to solve the serious problem of these industries, the most intensive of our community. Ladies and gentlemen, we are lucky to count in Galicia with a leading industry, Alcoa, which manufactures primary aluminium and currently only occurs at the San Cibrao plant; a key industry that produces an indispensable metal and that every year increases its use by being, besides light, 100% recyclable, and indisputably with countless applications in daily life. An industry — the aluminium industry — which competes at European level, but also at world level with China, the largest producer of this important metal, with which, of course, we have the most difficult to compete. The handicap, ladies and gentlemen, which presents this industry, of an electrointensive character, but especially Alcoa, is the ingenious consumption of energy; energy necessary for obtaining, first, aluminium and then, by electrolysis, of liquid aluminium, as well as in the final phase, in ovens, after alloy with other elements, of plates, ingots and toks that are subsequently sold to other important Greek companies, such as Cortizo or Extrusion, as well as the corresponding exports. With this introduction, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to highlight the importance of this company, unique in Spain, which employs more than 1,100 people directly and 5,000 others indirectly in the province of Lugo. Employees, ladies and gentlemen, very concerned about the lack of an answer from a government, the Central Government, which, after one year of the origin of the conflict, has brought no solution. I was saying before that the endowment of this industry is energy consumption because, ladies and gentlemen, it represents 40% of its costs. And for an idea, the three plants that used to belong to Alcoa — including Avilés — spent almost 1 million euros a day in electricity. Ladies and gentlemen, this company, in addition to its productive importance for generating one of the most currently used metals, also provides important security in the electrical supply, as it participates in the interruptability, which the obligation to disconnect from the electrical system when required by the security of supply, thereby facilitating the safe integration of renewable energies into the electrical system, which are not stockable and still not predictable. For all this, ladies and gentlemen, this group has shown from the very first moment its concern about solving the problem of this industry whose source is at the price of electricity. Unfortunately, despite the Socialists, it is the Government of the State that has its sole competence, and therefore the only one responsible for finding the solution to this important problem. The Government of the Union has shown since the first minute, in October 2018, before the announcement of the closure of Alcoa plants in Coruña and Avilés, its absolute collaboration. Here are the meetings with the Minister of Industry, the first allegations to that draft and, finally, to pass them a few weeks ago to draft a proposal for a statute which is consistent with the sector and trade unions, in line with others in European countries near Spain and which are allowing their electro-intensive industries to have electricity prices 25 euros cheaper than the mega-watt, that is, far lower than those in Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that the Alcoa plant has already gone through for trouble at other times, but the answer to that was very different. Specific measures were taken that quickly resolved the conflict. The unemployment auction, so criticized by some groups, has helped to mitigate the energy expenditure of these companies; this system that the European Union has warned that it would have to change, but for what it has given a long term, in fact, there are several countries that will continue to convene its auctions until 2022. In the process of improving this interruptability system was the PP government in 2018, until you arrived and everything stopped. In 2017 the interruption payments were around EUR 500 million for all these industries. As far as you're concerned, socialist gentlemen, in 2018, 316 million euros, but for this 2019, only 196 million, and 196 million is less than 500 million. And I anticipate it, even if you and your government delegate want to confuse us with aid for CO2 emissions compensation, which have called close to the election call, they don't even approach those 500 million that were assigned to the entire electro-intensive industry in Spain until 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, let's be serious, that the Alcoa workers need it, don't fool them. You, with the problem of Alcoa on the table, called pauses 40% lower than those that were called in 2018. And they're not compensated for costs, CO2 emission aids. The workers know that, and they told them last Sunday too, when at the election call they lost a lot of votes, Mrs. Otero, in the Navy district. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem is at the price of electricity, and Mr. Sánchez's government has recognized, at the end of 2018, that this has led to a loss of competitiveness in the electrointensive industry. That is why they decided to pass the Royal Decree of December 2018, which stated that at six months the Statute of the Intensive Industry would be approved. But eleven months after its entry into force, and the status is not approved, and what's more serious, they don't want to show it. Ladies and gentlemen, if you haven't modified that first draft in which it wasn't worth anything to lower the price of electricity, you'll see it won't be worth anything. The Government of the Union, ladies and gentlemen, passed them to all groups represented in Congress, and also to the BNG, a proposal for a statute with key measures, which, together with the thrust, would directly impact on the fall in energy prices for these industries, even putting them in equal terms with the rest of Europe, placing the price of megawatt/hour in 35 or 40 euros the megawatt. Measures, ladies and gentlemen, which would, in the first place, pass by regulating the characterization of electrointensible consumers. It is essential, ladies and gentlemen, to contemplate various categories, but, of course, irrevocably, that of hyper-electrointensive consumer. Measures, ladies and gentlemen, of a fiscal nature, as would be the abolition of the 7% tax of the electricity generation to all consumers; all, whether large, small, pemese or private. Another fiscal measure would be to abolish the excise duty on coal, or the green penny; measures to reduce charges and tolls collected in access tariffs, in a similar way to what is done in other European countries. And, ladies and gentlemen, measures that promote long-term procurement of electricity, with bilateral energy contracts to ensure the price of the electricity market for a certain volume. It is also proposed that aid be extended by indirect CO2 emissions, so far as it is now clearly insufficient, as well as favouring the right to offset the cost of financing renewable energy for the different categories of electro-intensive consumers. Ladies and gentlemen, many of these measures are already being implemented in the European countries around us. Germany, France, the Netherlands, Belgium or even the United Kingdom have powerful systems of support for the intensive industry, in CO2 compensation mode, with demand management systems or at specific energy prices for large energy consumers. This proposal, which I hope everyone will support, would place the price of energy between EUR 35 and EUR 40, allowing the intensive industry in general, and Galicia in particular, to compete on an equal footing with the rest of Europe. I insist, ladies and gentlemen, the situation is very serious, we have been waiting for eleven months for a statute to solve this serious crisis; the crisis that Mr. Pedro Sánchez said in March was solved, and lied. He lied to all the Greeks. Gentlemen of the PSOE, there was time to be positioned as organizers of a climate summit, even offering free transportation to an activist, but not to solve the problems of Alcoa or the bridge center. What is certain is that you can't trust Mr. Sánchez, who a few days ago didn't sleep thinking that Mr. Iglesias was part of his government and yesterday he hugs himself and still offers him vice president. It is clear that we are concerned about this possible government, because its allegory - and never better said - with the extreme left, which is against the whole private initiative. who just wants to close them... [[Murmurs.]] [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u285	Quiet. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u286	...is concerned about all the workers in Galicia. And finished, ladies and gentlemen. The thing that worries us most...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u287	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u288	...to the Government of the Union and this group is that this problem is solved and that energy policy changes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u289	Quiet, please. We must respect who is in the use of the word, on one side and all. All of us. [[Murmurs.]] No, no, please, with everyone. Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, don't say anything, that's it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet. Let's not joke, that we're in a serious debate. Finish it, Mrs. Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u290	...and finished. What we're worried about most about is the Government of the Union and this group is that this problem is solved and that they change energy and industrial policy, which only leads to uncertainty and mistrust. From this group we will not fail to insist on the commitments that the state must have with Galicia and all the workers of Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about creating an energy transition that is orderly and fair, and also a status that offers competitiveness and stability to the electrointensive Welsh industry. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that they will approve this proposal and, since they will all rule together in Madrid, the opposition gentlemen, that they will press for a statute once and for all with appropriate measures to be adopted for the Greek electro-intensive industry. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u291	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u292	Good morning. If a party in the opposition is dedicated exclusively to protesting or rebuking the Government, without providing solutions to anything, it is difficult to get the support of citizenship, but it is far more serious than a party in the Government or a government does not provide solutions and simply seeks guilty. If you think with that kind of government action, or inaction, that we've seen repeatedly in the industrial sector, you're going to win the election, because they're very bad at it. No, perhaps, since the opposition, we should say, "Go on." [[Murmurs.]] Because that's how they're gonna lose the election, sure. They go on like this, they're going to lose insurance; or, perhaps, they're already lost, and that's why they don't do anything. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But the reality is that while the government does nothing, people suffer, workers suffer, and industries shut down. That's the reality. That's why we want to go beyond letting you with your inaction take the entire Welsh industry to disaster before they leave this government. Mrs. Novoa was told that 500 million were given before and that now they're not up to 200. Yes, but there's a difference: you gave a lot of millions, but who paid them? We paid them in receipt of the light, and the rest of the companies. These 500 million were out of the citizens, the pemes, who were going over these 500 million to these companies. That was totally unfair, and the European Union made it very clear. That was not the solution. Indeed, interruptability is necessary, and it has a reasonable cost, which is what is being applied now. But not the 500 million we paid for the rest of the citizenship. Then he talks about lowering the price of light. Hey, get down, get down! And one of the proposals is to remove environmental taxes. I mean, anyone who's unclean, don't pay. There's a proposal, too! It's going to be more successful! In addition, you should know that removing the green penny reduces the price of the megawatt to 2 or 3 euros per megawatt/hour. How are you going to get the 25 you're going to put down? Because the rest of the things I'm proposing are gifts, and that's not what we really need to do to lower the price of light, because it doesn't seem to look at you in France, Germany, Belgium, Denmark or Norway. What is the solution in all these countries - and you know -? Remove the hydraulic nuclear production from the daily pool, you know that. [[Murmurs.]] Well, if you want, I'll give you all the documentation to check it someday, because why do bilateral contracts serve if you don't force a regulated price on everything that is production by amortized production system? What are they for? So why should Alcoa be able to contract bilaterally with Endesa or Iberdrola, if Endesa and Iberdrola are going to say: if I'm selling the megawatt at 60 euros, why am I going to sell it to you at least? These are absurd proposals. Then, that's where our amendments go. The first is that you cannot say that this Parliament supports what the Government of Galicia has proposed as regards the Statute of the electrointensive industry, because contributions are much more complete, workers, trade unions, companies, and most of the groups in this House. The proposal made by the Government is totally incomplete and insufficient. If you agree that the Government should be urged to accept the claims of all groups, unions and workers, we will vote in favour, if not, we will not be able to vote in favour, because your proposal does not solve the problem. Maybe what they don't want is to solve it. But besides, there are other things that the Galician Union would have to do, because you say Alcoa is selling a lot of aluminum to Cortizo. Well, it's not true, Cortizo no longer buys aluminum mostly, which was Alcoa's biggest customer. You know why? Because the quality of the aluminum that is being produced right now in Alcoa is not enough. You know why? No, no, that's reality. [[Murmurs.]] You ask the Alcoa workers, or the entrepreneurs, if you like. Why not optimize the cost of production in Alcoa, putting gas to heat the melting furnaces in the aluminium factory? The Galician Union spent a lot of millions on bringing the gas to the door, and now it doesn't ask Alcoa to use that gas to melt into the casting tanks, which would lower the costs. Because things are going to lower energy costs, but also to lower other kinds of costs and to improve productivity, to improve quality. Do you know that Alcoa doesn't sell to the aeronautics industry, or to the automotive industry, which needs much more quality aluminum? You know you don't sell them? Then they should know, and urge the Government, the action of the Union's government industry, which has the competences, that the way is not only to lower the price of light, but also to sell better products. All of this is in the nine or ten proposals that we made, that you probably don't accept them, because the reality is that the Government of Galicia does not want to rule, just want to find guilty. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u293	Thank you, Mr. Casal. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u294	Good morning to all and to all. Mrs. Novoa started this way, very gentle, very conciliatory. So, I'm going to do the first thing is to translate, make a translation, of the initiative that you bring us here, gentlemen of the People's Party, because the initiative you bring here is: give us the "yes, baboon" to the German Government, tell us that we do everything very well, give us the reason...; that is, the Industry Council does not consult or take into account the approaches of parliamentary groups and the People's Party's Parliamentary Group systematically votes against the arrivals of parliamentary groups. And they're here to tell us that we're telling them that yes to a proposal that you publicly presented, around the press of the pre-election campaign, on October 22nd, and that, at best, we got here on October 24th, after asking the Industry Councillor for the appearance of budgets. That, Mrs. Novoa, is called having a lot of faces and a little shame. That's the attitude the People's Party comes to this debate. Because all you want is to tell them no, to tell them we're not with you, but we're not going to give them that taste; we're not going to give it to them. What if we're going to ask them is a little serious, Mrs. Novoa, they have to have a little serious, first, because it's totally extemporaneous. They come at this point with a correction of the allegations that you yourself have submitted to the statute of electrointensives -- and I remind you also that other groups, other groups, we also claim to that -- and you come here, because, with a refractory proposal, taking part of the claims of workers and workers and some issues that have also moved the unions and of those who are laughing at them in their day. They're now saying that, of course, this is the magic solution; of course, the magic solution a few days before the election campaign. Do you know what the workers told you? Do you know what the chairman of the company committee told you when they asked you? He said, "Hom!", bad, bad, we don't think, many of the things we've been saying for ten months. Of course, that's the point. That is what should give you a little bit of shame, Mrs Novoa, because, indeed, more than 2,000 direct and indirect jobs would give you to take this a little more seriously, and that is what we want to explain to you today, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, because we aspire to the fact that this Parliament, which this theoretical democracy, serves for something more than to tell you permanently that yes to the People's Party, that very well its proposals, that very well its work. But it's not that valuation, Mrs. Novoa, because the valuation is that there's a problem in Alcoa, yes, and the German government hasn't helped to solve it in a year. In fact, you're retracting yourself. But there's a general problem in industry, and we just got to know the industrial production index, which goes down again, Mrs. Novoa. So they can't come here with that attitude that there's no problem in the Welsh industry, except for two or three things that cause the central government, when, in addition, you were part of the problem. Because who designed the electrical system? Law of 1997, Law of 2013; the People's Party. The shocks of interruption are clear that we criticise them again in this House. Uncertainty, insecurity and uncontrollable money, open hands, to companies about whether or not they modernized themselves... and whether or not they guaranteed jobs. [[Applause]] Of course you do! [[Applause]] And who's added more uncertainty about interrupting thrusts? [[Applause]] Mr. Rajoy. You were in the government when you cut your backs. They were reduced — a problem — to one year in sight and, above all, reduced to six months in sight. Don't deny it with your head because it's the Official State Gazette so that we can consult it, if necessary. [[Mr. Novoa Iglesias denies it.]] In fact, of course, we criticize those pauses because what is needed is a stable industrial tariff and there is negotiation in transport tariffs. Because, of course, now you come up as if you discovered the powder by asking for reductions in the transport fees, when the Nationalist Block of Wales introduced two laws already in this Parliament by asking for a reduction in the transport fees. Now, we also say: let's negotiate with the state, but let's also negotiate that we have a producer condition that has to have something in return. They have just fallen from the donkey and they assume not only to join the proposals like the IGC and the BNG of reductions in the transport fees, which they partially include in their proposal, and they assume that this also has to be negotiated for consumers and for the rest of the companies in our industry. We really regret that you did not take this opportunity, for example, to refer to something we have brought back to this Parliament, which is that battery of measures that the Alcoa Works Committee transferred to parliamentary groups in March 2019, Mrs Novoa. Because with months of delay, for example, they pick up the issue of long-term bilateral contracts; without specifying years, that is, it will not be that they got their hands and that by a carabou they won the elections last Sunday and they could form government. It wasn't supposed to be! So they didn't get too specific, it wasn't supposed to be. They took some of these questions, but many others didn't. And why? Because they continue to obey that overwhelming centralism and what Mr. Married tells them, instead of doing what you say they do but don't do, that it would be to put Galicia and the Welsh industry first.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u295	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u296	So, we regret that once again on this subject, instead of having complied with that agreement that if we arrived on September 25 on a specific work table of Alcoa San Cibrao, they had not worked on these proposals either with the groups or with the municipalities, or with the company committee of Alcoa San Cibrao...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u297	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u298	...that, in the end, is who should determine the road map...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u299	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u300	...and that you ignore it when you want it and agree with it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u301	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u302	...when they're simply fit for election agenda. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u303	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u304	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Mrs. Novoa, I don't know if the urgency with which the People's Party has tabled this non-law proposal is such urgency today. Explain. Mr. Feijóo, at a breakfast with his fan club, at an election campaign in Lugo, announced that he would take responsibility for settling the situation in Alcoa. But when? If he won the People's Party. And, of course, we all know the result of last Sunday's elections: the Socialist Party won and the PP lost; 120 against 88. I think the thing is pretty clear! That's what the president of Galician Union said. [[Applause]] [[Strong murmurers.]] Well... just calm down!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u305	Calm down! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It depends on where you look. Quiet. [[Laughter]] That's it! [[Laughter]] It depends on where you look, there's for everyone!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u306	He presented himself to the elections, I mean.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u307	That's it! It depends on where you look. [[Murmurs.]] Come on, that's it! It depends on where you look; if you look at Galicia, it's not like that. [[Murmurs.]] But, well, come on! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's go! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u308	Well, but those who presented themselves were Mr. Married and Mr. Pedro Iglesias... Sorry, sorry, sorry... Peter Sánchez! [[Murmurs.]] Right, right, I wanted to name the three, I escaped... [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] Well, we all know the result of last Sunday... well, from the words of the Lord... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u309	Please! Dad, stop for a moment. Sorry, I'm gonna stop the time. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Silence! Quiet, please. [[Murmurs.]] [[Mrs. Otero Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Silence! [[Murmurs.]] An error has any of it. Quiet. That's it, please! [[Murmurs.]] Go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u310	From Mr. Feijóo's words we can draw two conclusions: one, that the Government of Galician Union has not been doing anything for the maintenance of Alcoa San Cibrao's employment. It was something the Socialist Party had already said. And what we asked him to do at that time was that, since the Government of Galicia was not going to do anything for the maintenance of Alcoa San Cibrao's jobs, at least he had stopped putting sticks on the wheels of a socialist government that was actually working for a stable energy framework, which was what the Alcoa workers and also the company themselves were asking for, and not only patching up, which was what Mariano Rajoy was doing while ruling in the state. But what is more, the president's statement shows is a tremendous flaw in institutional loyalty: "If you win mine, I commit myself to working, and if you don't manage others," obviously the Council of Galicia also competes in industrial policy. Home!, that the president of the Union, who is supposed to be the president of all the Greeks, make these statements show what we have been reporting since the Socialist Group for a long time: rule for his own, but not rule for all. But nothing, I want to exempt Mr. Feijóo from that responsibility that he himself put himself, since the PP has lost the elections, he will not rule in the state and will be a government presided over by Pedro Sánchez what brings Alcoa San Cibrao out of the situation in which he is found. That we cannot see that this situation has been taking place for a long time and that Aznar himself was the culprit of this situation when he gave it to a multinational. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u311	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u312	And, of course, they now present this copy and take measures to be introduced into the statute of electrointensives; a copy and paste that is not useful for solving the problems of Alcoa, a copy and taking measures that are agreed upon in an election campaign and which are insufficient measures to solve the problem of Alcoa. Because they look, of course, now they remember the statute of electrointensives, but what were they doing during those seven and a half years that Mariano Rajoy ruled? Nothing, because Mr. Feijóo didn't ask Mariano Rajoy for anything about this statute of electrointensives. Of course, now they're in a hurry, I urge a government to act as law-enforcement and to pass a statute...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u313	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u314	...of electrointensives when they know they can't. [[Murmurs.]] They're in a hurry to pick up the billboards, they're in a hurry to make election announcements, and they come up to say that the statute of electrointensives will go to the electoral program of the 10-N People's Party. [[Murmurs.]] Once again, they lie to the neighbors and neighbors of the Navy, because in the 200 measures of the People's Party this status of electrointensives is not contemplated. Either they're lying or the truth is that the importance that you want to give or that you're trying to sell that Mr. Núñez Feijóo has in the People's Party at Madrid level is not so, because Mr. Casado has exposed these demands of Mr. Feijóo and has not introduced that statute of electrointensives into the measures of the PP electoral programme. And, look, they stop lying because it's not true. I mean, this socialist government did put the 25 million for indirect costs of CO2 and also the 13 million for interruptability auctions. Mrs. Novoa, this knows that it is the maximum that allows the European Union and that it is all that Alcoa San Cibrao has asked for. Talk to the workers and talk to the company's management as well. So they stop lying, they stop looking for confrontations with the central government with the only purpose of getting an election cut, because the truth is that this electoral strategy didn't turn out very well. They put all this up for 37 votes in the Town Hall of Cervo, and I don't say so, the mayor of Cervo, Mr. Villares — which I know as far as he is from the People's Party — that besides making statements in which he said that the neighbours of Cervo couldn't vote well, he said, "People are not still aware of the problem because, being our company as it is, at extreme risk, it's not a logical result because of the concern we have in the area. The concern is high. As far as Sunday's results are concerned, I think Alcoa's concern and fear did not translate into votes in Cervo," which was his only concern, to take out electoral cuts...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u315	Thank you. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u316	...don't look for a solution to maintain the employment of the Alcoa factory.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u317	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u318	So, we tabled an amendment in the sense that we do consider it urgent and priority to approve a true status of electrointensives...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u319	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u320	...not a few patches that the People's Party's Government has used to us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u321	Thank you, Mrs. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u322	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u323	Thank you. For the Joint Left Group, Mrs. Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u324	Too bad I'm not visiting another public school, that it would certainly be one of the state's best schools, and not just private schools. [[Applause]] You have to see what nerves are spent on the popular bench in this plenary. Yeah, yeah, yeah, maybe we should get some sleeping pills. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u325	Don't make that recommendation, that this is bad medication. [[Murmurs.]] That's it! That's it! [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u326	It's just that they've been messing up for two days in a row, without stopping; that's impressive.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u327	Silence! Time's up, calm down. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. Come on, come on! We're finishing up now. I understand that time is complicated, but we're gonna wait a little bit. A little bit of courage...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u328	Yeah, yeah, on that bench, it's complicated.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u329	Come on! Go ahead!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u330	Look, Mrs Novoa, a month ago we approved an initiative by the People's Group on this line, despite the fact that you lied with no face to the president in the previous plenary saying that we will vote against. It is a lie — we are still waiting for you to correct — we voted in favour. And we will vote in favour every time we insist on the subject. You can see that they don't trust Mr. Vega's initiatives, which today you have to come. Well, in any case, they're clear about who wants to talk about electrointensives. We are in favour and we agree with the urgent need to address a regulatory change in the electricity tariff. It's obvious. So agreed we were the ones who were with the Alcoa workers in front of Congress defending their rights. So we agree that we have companions charged with defending the workers' rights; workers whom you defuse with your legal initiatives. Hence, lessons in this matter are too much, and empty initiatives like this are, frankly, a waste of time and show very little responsibility for them. We agree — we say this here and we will again insist on this as many times as necessary — it is a shame that this issue has not yet been addressed, that the Statute of Intensives had not been adopted when Sánchez was president. For our part, the Alcoa workers have every commitment that in the next Council of Ministers it will be a priority to resolve this matter. Now, it's also a shame that the People's Party comes here again and again to influence the responsibility of the Socialist Group, ignoring the fact that you were, as you were told here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u331	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u332	...those who cancelled the industrial tariff to replace it with interruptability auctions, which never — I insist, never — convinced the sector. It's a shame, Mrs. Novoa - we told you in the last debate on this matter - that the possors should solve the problem. It's not true, they don't reduce price instability and they don't give the necessary certainty that the sector claims. It's a shame, of course, to come here to say that the problem is to regulate the price of electricity, ignoring also that you were, that it was the People's Party, that it was the Spanish electricity market that legislated to ensure pingue benefits to your friends, your comrades, who then sat in comfortable boards of directors. We don't talk about it, it's a lot of them, it's Luis de Guindos, it's José María Aznar, it's Manuel Pizarro, Pio Cabanillas, Rodolfo Martín Villa...; prominent leaders of his party who earn millions of benefits — no wonder I'm seated — and outrageous wages of Endesa's benefits. Shame on you! Or Angel Acebes, in Iberdrola -- if, yes, don't get nervous -- or Felipe González or Cristina Garmendia at the PSOE -- that makes him happy. That's good! If they steal everyone, they're very happy. Congratulations, Mr. Pazos! [[Murmurs.]] In fact, not only do you cross the rotational doors. Congratulations! Congratulations! So, Mrs. Novoa, said this, we would have to talk about how it's actually going to cut off the scandalous profits of the electricians, how it's going to stop polishing what's all about, this country, so that the big electricians will keep filling their pockets. In fact, we would sometimes expect a minimum of stink -- that they don't prove -- saying, oh, no, it's just that the others are also on the board of directors! A little smell on his side. And I could also come here to talk about the Galician industry, which you have -- we're not going to tire of repeating it -- the honor of being part of, supporting, a government that destroyed 22,500 jobs in the Welsh industry, 1 out of every 3 in the state. So coming here to say you have no responsibility is a shame. You have on your back less employment, more closures, the fall in industrial production, a disaster that can't be managed by coming here again and again and saying that you have no competence. If they don't have skills, if they don't know how to do it, they leave. I hope one day we'll be surprised by coming to this House, bringing a responsible initiative, some initiative, one initiative, that addresses Greek solutions to Galicia's problems, because if the German Parliament is useless, if the Greek Government is useless, they excuse you from being here wasting your time, they let other people who, of course, will have answers. In any case, we insist, we agree on the fundamentals. Is it important to pass the Royal Decree of Intensive Consumers? Of course. We've already defended him, we've brought initiatives. We need a regulation that seeks to give certain prices, guarantees of the future, in a framework, at least, three-yearly, insisting on the need to regulate this tariff. Look, let's not say, we took it to the show, it's in sight of everyone. Do you know how many times this matter appeared in the People's Party program? None, not one. So coming to talk here is very easy. Nothing else on our side.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u333	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u334	Thank you, President. Home!, Mr. Casal, do you call it inaction to make a draft of the statute of the intensive industry? Is that inaction? Inaction is that of this government, which we've been waiting for eleven months for it; that's inaction. Please! [[Applause]] Look, ladies and gentlemen, the last thing is to say that Alcoa's aluminum is of bad quality. It's a shame, sir, it's a disrespect for all the workers and for that industry. Second thing. Third thing. Mr. Casal, I can't tell you again. If we get the nuclear and hydraulic power-mixed pool out of the power mix, it'll raise the price of electricity, which you and BNG insist on rising electricity costs. Neither the Greek fare nor what you say allow the price of electricity to be lowered, Mr. Casal. I'm an engineer, too, like you, and I understand that. Please, a little serious! Look, Mrs. Presas, I see they're going to give their vote, indisputably, to the Socialist Party. I just see. He did not criticize or look on that side in a single moment of his intervention, nor in a single moment. I see you're going to give your vote. It's cheap or snake. [[Murmurs.]] Socialist gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, look. Mrs. Otero, I'm sorry to tell you that this is a map of the elections in Galicia. See the blue? Well, blue's everywhere we win. But what do you know where we win? [[Murmurs.]] Look, Mrs. Otero, do you know where we won? [[Applause]] We won in Burela, we won in Ribadeo, we won in Cervo and we won in Jupiter, and they lost 10,000 votes in Lugo province. That's the result. [[Murmurs.]] What matters most to the People's Party is that you're going to join, they're going to put vice president, and there's going to be a lady in charge of the privileges that the entire intensive industry received. This is Mrs. Yolanda Díaz. How are we going to trust you if you're going to say you're undercover help? How are you...? How are you...? Privilexies? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Of course! All the hidden help! Of course, look, they're going to co-governance, they're going to make vice presidents who want to shut down all the industries... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u335	Quiet, please. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u336	They want to close the thermal power stations, they want to close the Ence, they've strongly opposed Citroën's expansion. [[Murmurs.]] Those are going to be their government partners. How are we not going to be worried, Your Honor? Those are the ones who will rule with you. Look, for the People's Group and for the Government of Unity, it's a priority to save the electrointensive industry in Galicia. We cannot allow the closure of Alcoa, in San Cibrao, vital for the province of Lugo and throughout Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen, this group hopes that the first decision to make this fabulous government will be the adoption of the Statute of the Intensive Industry. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u337	About the amendments. Do you accept the amendments?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u338	Obviously, we're not going to accept any of your amendments. malcolm. hunter@gmx. co. uk [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u339	Thank you. After the debate on the non-legislative proposals has been closed, we proceed to the vote on the proposals. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u340	Close the doors, please. We start voting... if you want me to say just the number? They all have the script, and so... okay. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, be careful, let's just say the number of the non-law proposition. We started by voting on number 1, which is an initiative of the People's Parliamentary Group, which does not accept the amendments made by the three groups. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera and eleven other Members, on the requests to be made by the Government of Greece to the Ministry of Development in connection with the commitment made by the former Government of Spain to boost the road route between Vigo and O Porriño, through the extraordinary road investment plan. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 52; abstentions, 20. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u341	We voted for paragraph 2, which is an initiative of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which is awaiting a transaction. I don't know, that's what I've got here. Do you incorporate Group Number 2 as a transaction? [[Assentment.]] Excuse me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Okay, perfect. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of health management. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u342	We are now voting on No. 3 on the initiative of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, which does not accept the amendment of the Joint Parliamentary Group. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. José Luis Rivas Cruz and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in connection with the agreement of the Council of Galicia of 2004 so the sectoral plan of the road network of the Coruña, Artexo, Culleredo, Cambre, Oleiros, Sada and Bergondo, as well as the draft layout presented by the Chamber Council in 2006. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u343	We are now voting on paragraph 4, which is on the initiative of the Joint Parliamentary Group, which accepts the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and does not accept that of the People's Parliamentary Group. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Mixto, at the initiative of Mr Luis Villares Naveira and two other Members, on the implementation by the Government of the Greek Government of environmental audits throughout the Government of the autonomous public administration, autonomous bodies, public bodies and adscribed bodies, as well as the verification of the degree of compliance of European Regulation 1221/2009 and Decision 2019/61. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 17 votes against, 38; abstentions, 16. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u344	We are now voting on number 5, on the initiative of the Left Joint Group, which accepts the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Joint Left Group, at the initiative of D. Antón Sánchez García and D. Marcos Cal Ogando, on the actions to be carried out by the Galician Council in connection with the timely modification of the Municipal Management Plan of Mos to facilitate the execution of the project to build the Celtic Sports City and a shopping center. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u345	We are voting on paragraph 6 on the initiative of the Left Joint Group, which accepts the amendment of the Joint Parliamentary Group. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Joint Left Group, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the allocation by the German Government to Sergas of the economic resources necessary to enable the negotiation of a work stability plan at the sectoral table. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u346	We voted in number 7 on the initiative of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. There are no amendments. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the improvement by the Government of Greece of health emergency care in the area of Ten with the provision of Lalin, as head of the county, a medicalized ambulance. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u347	We are voting on No. 8 on the initiative of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which accepts the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Maria Luisa Pierres López and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in order to encourage the supply of long-term housing. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 29; votes against, 38; abstentions, 4. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u348	Finally, we voted on the initiative of the People's Parliamentary Group, which does not accept the amendments of the three groups. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Daniel Vega Pérez and 14 other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament in relation to the proposal for a Statute for Electrointensive Consumers drawn up by the Government of Greece, as well as the demands to be made by the Central Government of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 53; abstentions, 17. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u349	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. We're still on the agenda. Da María Monserrat Prado Cores and five other G.P. Members. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the German Government in relation to the labour situation in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u350	Mrs Prado has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u351	Good morning. Good morning, Mr. Count. The work situation is still the question that the Greeks and the Greeks are most concerned about. This concern remains first of all in all demographic surveys. Seven out of ten Galicians point to unemployment and the quality of work, precariousness, poor working conditions and low wages as the main concern. I suppose something you'll have to say about this, won't you? And we've come to know the data of October's registered unemployment. In October unemployment increased by 7,323 more people, by 4.6%; 233 people per day were unemployed during the last month, more than twice as much as in September, who were already unemployed by 3,162 people, by 2%. And the number of unemployed people registered in the employment offices is 164,307, 3,303 more than in the same period of 2009. I'm saying this to go put some things that were said this morning. There's been talk of rising unemployment and so on in all sectors, and this data goes in the same direction as the EPA in the third quarter, and it shows a constant trend of rising unemployment and shows a decreasing labour market in Galicia that is declining more and more. Ten years of the People's Party's government and it is blessed by the consolidation of labour insecurity as a structural problem, not a momentary one-month, a quarter, but a structural issue. And there are thousands of Welsh and Welsh workers in precarious employment, temporaryity, rotation, part-time contracts by taxation, not by choice, but because they are the only ones offered to them, contracts of low duration and poorly paid. It's evidence that the working class, the majority of society, is suffering from the consequences of the application of cut-off policies, cuts of rights, labour reforms — totally regressive — and pension cuts, cuts in public services such as health, education or social services. The neoliberal policies that have been put in place, which drive, because they have this negative impact on the quality of life of most of the population and there is a accumulation of wealth in a few, in a minority of the upper part, the cost of the minority. And the evidence is very clear. I'm going to tell you about a number of questions, which ratify this statement I just made. The work incomes have only been reduced. According to the IGE, in 2009 the salary weight in Galicia accounted for 48% of GDP and today, in 2018, at the total amount of 2018, represent 42.4%; 5.6 points less than GDP represent income from work in ten years. Within wages, polarization has also increased. Larger wages, over EUR 4,000, increased by over 5%, 5.2%, while the lowest lost 10% of purchasing power. And this trend has not changed with that theoretical recovery of gross domestic product. And the loss of purchasing capacity of the working class in these ten years has been reduced by 11%. That is, data that should certainly be the object of your concern and occupation as responsible for employment in the German Government. Other data reflecting the IGE is that 24% of the Welsh and Welsh people do work days over 40 hours, who do it off-the-job and don't charge for those hours. Yesterday he made six months of the entry into force of the actual newspaper register, which, among others, at the BNG we are insistently demanding; we brought this issue to this parliament so that it would deepen the reality of all those extra hours that were not paid. And what do they say six months after this record is applied? That overtime was reduced by around 24%. Oh, but the ones who got paid don't exceed 2%. I mean, if we take measures in favour of the working class, if this reality of exploitation is evidenced. Part-time contracts have steadily increased over the last ten years. As I said before, it's not a contract by choice but it's the only one offered to them, and most part-time contracts are on the lowest income profiles. I mean, people work part-time and charge proportionally and have some income that are the lowest in the working class. So there's a decrease of all the indicators. The drop in unemployment rate is not offset by the rise in the number of unemployed. And this is evidence, and no job has been created since 2009 but destroyed. It keeps the occupation down, 54,100 people less since 2009, Mr. Conde. And the dramatic thing is, most of that low in the activity of the busy people was among the new people. A labour situation directly proportional to the dismantling of the productive sectors. Primary sector employment decreased to 7,200 in 2018. According to EPA, industrial employment has destroyed 4,400 jobs since 2009 and there is an aging of that loss of industrial employment, because there are virtually no new people there. A widespread industrial crisis, from north to south and east to west. We can talk from Navy to Death Coast, from Coruña to Vigo, and with 6,000 direct jobs at stake, as you well know: Alcoa, Endesa, Isobar, Ferroatlantica, Barriers, Vulcano. Constant relocation of the telecommunications sector, what else was R, then Euskaltel and now ZTE, more than a thousand jobs at stake. Naturgy dislocations, eliminates telephone attention, loses four hundred jobs. We can talk about the loss of 18,553 autonomouss in ten years; in the last year, 1,782. Well, I think you could stay here for two days talking about your job data. But I want to make a special mention of the situation of two groups: that of women and that of youth. If, by analyzing women's labor data, they soon jump into all the alarms, inequality is perpetuated and even accentuated. The pay gap only increased by 22%. Greek women earn 5,471 euros less a year than men and 1,734 less than in the state. Since 2009 the wage gap has increased by 1,000 euros in Galicia, four times as much as in the state, which has only increased by 284 euros. We can talk about this pay gap, when we get to retirement age, it goes up, it goes up, and it's over 5,000 euros, in obvious matters. And also the occupation rate in Galicia, which from 2009 to 2019 there is a smaller occupation and 1,800 women less. And then, if we go to youth, the image is of true devastation. The job that has almost been lost was among young people under the age of 25, where wages have also come down and they have the lowest incomes. A situation, Mr. Conde, which we believe you will have to explain. We want to know what the measures of the People's Party are to create decent employment, to empower our productive sectors, to curb the cleansing of emigration, because what we are seeing is a government that does not present any real measure for the development of Galicia, installed in the policy of appearance, of a reality parallel to that of thousands of Welsh people who suffer the consequences of these terrible policies that you apply, and, yes, a Greek government for months ago installed in in indolence, without alternatives and installed in opposition to the Spanish Government, but without exercising any competition or claiming any more. I have to repeat the data again: the Government of the People's Party, ten years old, zero more competences, no more competition; on the contrary: they let the state get in the bag in competences they had, because they don't want to exercise government; exercising commentators is good, as if they had absolutely nothing to say. That is why, Mr. Conde, we would like to know if you are planning to take some action to reverse this labour situation, which you are going to do to rescue these thousands of Greeks and Greeks from precariousness and poverty at work, and if you are going to urge the Spanish Government — I suppose so — to derogate labour reforms, pension reforms, all these measures that have done nothing more than make this work framework worse at which the Greeks and the Greeks are inserted. For now, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u352	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Reply by the Economic, Employment and Industry Counsellor, Fr Francisco Conde.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u353	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Prado, if the BNG really wants to help the workers and the Greek workers, it would probably have to do three things in advance. First of all, being true to reality, and therefore not trying to confuse with concepts, nor with statistics. Secondly, to respect a little more the Italian productive fabric; and to respect it, Mrs Prado, because I should not forget that 99% are autonomous, they are small companies, that every day they try to go out ahead, create and generate jobs; and therefore, they want to underestimate the work that develops our productive fabric does not seem reasonable. And thirdly, surely a little more humility and responsibility, because the BNG, now that it is partner of all less than the PP, logically, and you are ruling in Deputies and Councils, surely they should be more prudent when they want to talk about the different initiatives in this parliament. As far as the reality of the labour market is concerned, you know perfectly well — I'm saying for your written inquiry — that it's not the same thing to talk about contracts that talk about people. This debate has already been held by you and me, but it's not the first time. You know that, according to the latest survey of active population, which actually develops the National Institute of Statistics, we have in Galicia more than seven out of ten employees with indefinite contracts, in particular 72.6%; a figure that is above the autonomous communities traditionally ruled on the left — and I refer to communities like Andalusia, with 64.9%; Extremadura, 64.4%; Castile-A Mancha, 71.3%. But since you talked about the difference with regard to the year 2009, I remind you that this data that we have today of indefinite recruitment, 72.6%, is above average when you were ruling with the Bipartite, and in those years you remember perfectly that the Nationalist Block Galego had responsibility for government both in Galicia and in Madrid and the rate of indefinite never, ever, Mrs. Prado, arrived at 70%. I'm telling you more: in Galicia there are 645,000 women and men who today have an indefinite contract, and that figure is 5,000 more than there was in the third quarter of 2008, when you ruled. You tell me about EPA. You know that in the last survey of active population, the employment rate has been the highest since 2009. If you want to develop a debate with a certain order, I think you should bring all that data. You know, in addition, because you've talked about sectors, that occupation is growing in the industrial sector, reaching the largest inter-annual rise in the entire historical data series, since 2008. So the active population survey itself reflects a totally different reality that you want to bring here. He knows that the unemployment rate is lower than 2009, with 11.49%, and that Galicia is chained up five and a half years of consecutive declines, which now places us with a unemployment figure below the third quarter of 2009. That's the data, and so if you want to talk to me about youth unemployment, the unemployment rate in under 30 years, which is 20.3%, is the lowest in a third quarter of the entire historical data series. Mrs. Prado, this is data from the National Institute of Statistics, not data from the Galician Union. Therefore, trying to bring here a completely different reality seems to be trying to actually distort the labour market situation in Galicia. You tell me about wages. We've already talked about the data you handle last year, and you know perfectly well that the statistics you handle, which is that of the Tax Agency, do not take into account the actual working time for a year. So when you want to transfer data from the Tax Agency in your interrogation, you know that there are people who receive less than the minimum wage. You insist on trying to confuse, therefore, the reality of the data. And you know perfectly well that, if we talk about average wages, also measured with the survey of active population, the rate of growth of average wage in the last decade 2008-2018 was 8.83%, which means a rise of more than 148 euros. So reality is totally different from what you want to move here. It's worth asking why the Galician Nationalist Block needs tricks not to recognize Galicia's achievements. And when I talk about Galicia's achievements, I talk about achievements logically not only of this administration but also of all the productive tissue. More than 126,000 jobs recovered, more women working than ever — according to the social security affiliation data — two out of three employed have an indefinite full-time contract, eight out of ten households have all their assets occupied, 82.3%. That is the reality that we now have in the labour market. Look, Mrs. Prado, Galicia is where it is thanks to our productive fabric and thanks to the merit of our professionals, and not precisely to the position that is holding the Nationalist Block Galego. You, by system, intend to attack the company, especially the big company, despite the fact that it generates more than 16% of our jobs, and even acts openly for their closure. Why don't you want to talk here about the attitude your political party has in Pontevedra Town Hall? Why don't you talk about the Pontevedra Town Hall? No, it's not an obsession, it's a reality. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If you don't want to talk about reality and you don't want to talk about jobs in Ence, you don't want to talk about jobs in Elnosa, there seems to be jobs in the first and second category here, and if the Galician Nationalist Block just wants to talk about jobs in the first category, because it doesn't seem reasonable. [[Applause]] In any case, the Pontevedra Council, in fact, where it governs the Galego Nationalist Block, resorts to the extension of the grant of Ence, on which more than 5,000 jobs depend, lordship, five thousand jobs, which may have a huge difficulty in maintaining their job by an incomprehensible decision of the Galego Nationalist Block in the Pontevedra Council. Just as Elnosa gives — as you well know — her closure to the Council of Pontevedra itself. That's reality, that's the example and, of course, that's not what this Galician Union wants for Galicia, neither for Pontevedra Town Hall. As long as you decide, the Galician Union will, of course, continue alongside employment, alongside innovation, next to a more competitive Galician one, along with a greener Galician one, because, as you know, this government defends a fair energy transition. Of course, the future will be for those territories, such as the Greek, which are able to cope with the digital transformation, the ecological transformation of their business fabric, and thus betting on innovation, betting on the generation of value, also offering stability, responsibility and commitment to productive tissue. And that's why we have an budget, Mrs. Prado. Why don't you want to talk about the budget? Why don't you want to talk about the 260 million euros we're going to go to a more prepared Galicia to improve the training of our youth, women, self-government and social economy? [[Murmurs.]] Why don't you want to talk about the EUR 210 million to count on a more innovative Galicia and therefore continue to advance in our industrial, both aeronautics — and you refuse — as well as automotive, naval, ICT, textile, biotechnology or energy? And why don't you want to talk about the Galego Nationalist Block of 60 million euros to count on a greener Galicia and, therefore, to continue to promote a new industrial model compatible with the use of the circular and sustainable economy? Mrs Prado, we are not close to the situation of our economy, our industry, subject to the steamers, indeed, to the central government, which continues after the elections this Sunday. We will continue to work and hope that the parliamentary groups will join and support the budgets next week, convinced, of course, that they will serve to further facilitate the recovery of the Greek families through employment, because that is the main objective of the Council of Galicia. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u354	Thank you, Mr. Count. Replica, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u355	Look, Mr. Count, who doesn't respect the productive fabric of our country is you and the People's Party, who doesn't do anything at all, nothing, by helping him, and, you, in ten years of government — since they came back, and all the previous ones — are reducing Galicia to total irrelevance. [[Applause]] Look, do you know what the Isobar workers tell you? I referred to all the companies that are at risk right now, pending a thread: Alcohol, Endesa, Isobar, Ferroatlantic, Barriers, Vulcan... and we could go on. Do you know what the Isobars say to the president of the board and, therefore, to you too? Between the workers and the bank, you chose the bank. That's what they tell you, that's the respect and consideration that workers have for you. [[Applause]] And look, it's not like you're alien to the situation, as you just said, that you're not. You're responsible for the situation. I remind you that you are the councillor of a government, I don't know if you confuse yourself with a Tertullian and that you have to walk, but you are the advisor of a government. And look, we have a tiny labour market, but that's not the worst of our problems. We have a level of unemployment between our unacceptable youth, but that's not even the worst of our problems. We have a wage gap in Galicia that can't be justified, but even that isn't the worst of our problems. The worst problem is having the People's Party on board, which doesn't even recognize the brutal problem of unemployment. That's the maximum of the problems they have, the biggest problem that the Greeks and the Greeks have: the indolence of a Government of the People's Party that doesn't face or is willing to move anything at all in front of this situation. [[Applause]] The worst thing we have in Galicia is that inaction by the People's Party, which assumes absolutely no reality. Look, data. 2009-2019, Government of the People's Party. Low agricultural employment, 30%; industry, 10.85%; construction, 42.30%. That's data, IGE and INE, IGE and INE. Look, the time recruitment was the one that got the most, by 104%. That's statistical data, which we didn't invent in the BNG either. Look, the occupation of women in Galicia 2009-2019: 1,800 minus 1,800 minus. In the State, activity rate, third quarter of 2019: in the State, 53 %; in Galicia, 49 %. State occupation: 44%; Galicia, 42%. If you want, I can keep telling you data, before which you should be not only worried, but busy, and away from that, you take no responsibility and you are absolutely indifferent to this reality. What I ask you today is to see if at some point they decide to exercise Government; I am an administrative delegation, they don't want powers, they don't assume responsibilities. And then, budget. I told him about the salary divide in Galicia, which during the ten years of the People's Party Government increased by 1,000 euros; that is, 1,000 euros less we won women with respect to men, by the action of the People's Party Government in Galicia. And what do the budgets say? What do the budgets say for this year 2020, Mr. Conde? That you are referring to €200,000 to measures for the wage divide, €200,000!, €200,000 to fight against the wage divide of women. [[Applause]] I suppose it will also be the responsibility of the Government of the Galician Nationalist Block and the Bipartisan Government. I also don't know if at some point you're going to decide not to oppose the Bipartite and if you're going to spend your time ruling; it would be good. What is evidence is that there is a consolidation of the figure of the poor worker and worker, those people who, having a salary, working not only seven or eight hours, but twelve, fourteen or fifteen hours, because they cannot develop a decent life project, because they don't have enough wages, and they grow inequalities, also noted by the International Monetary Fund or the OECD, or who also say that the Spanish State is where the inequalities have grown most with the escape of the crisis. It is also true that, after recognizing these inequalities, what they say is that it is something that is necessary for economic engineering, to stimulate effort, reward, reward of productivity, to improve investment. Inequities are dramatic, as a result of those economic policies that have sought and managed to socialize costs rather than benefits. That's why I could continue here telling you what the situation is. What I'm asking you to do is get down from that ivory tower where you're installed, Mr. Conde, do something to derogate and push so that these labor reforms are taken off so badly for the working class in general, but for Galicia in particular, they change their model and do something to get Galicia to produce...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u356	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u357	...and that the enormous potential and possibilities that our country has are no longer a plug, a problem, and become the solution...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u358	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u359	...and get Galicia to develop the possibilities, the economy and the job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u360	Thank you. Close the interrogation, Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u361	Mrs. Prado, I understand perfectly well that you have to make merits before the new government. It seems reasonable and therefore look for the way to see how this new government will support, as they did in the past when you were represented in Madrid. But I don't think Isobar's workers are worthy of you to use them for merit. Because if you want to find an explanation of why there is no solution for Isobar, you should not look at the Galician Union, you should certainly look at another administration, such as the Central Administration, which did nothing, absolutely nothing, to be able to collaborate with the Galician Union to solve that situation. [[Murmurs.]] By the way, the good minister who quickly came to meet the needs they had in Medina do Campo, but unfortunately by Galicia did not stop. [[Applause]] In any case, we'll be in expectation, we'll be in expectation of the position your group will have with the new government and, therefore, we'll see how you defend the Greek agenda. Ours is very clear: defending Alcoa, defending The Bridges, defending Reganosa, defending the interests of the electrointensive industries. [[Murmurs.]] We'll see, in fact, what schedule does the Nationalist Block Galego have. Anyway, you're telling me about irrelevance. Man!, irrelevance, what would you like me to tell you? Do you want us to talk about the automotive sector? Do you want us to talk about how we actually have more than 20,000 employees and how we are developing two new models in Citroën, thanks, among other measures, to the support that the Galician Union is developing in the automotive sector as a whole? Do you want us to talk about the aviation sector, how are we investing more than 160 million euros to develop a new sector through R & D+i projects, attracting multinationals to invest in Galicia? Are we talking about the biotechnology sector and therefore all the effort we make to support this industry, which is currently one of the most jobs it has in Europe? Do you want us to talk about the naval sector as well and how we were able to tackle a situation of enormous difficulty through tax lease and how we actually managed to bring burden of work? Therefore, Your Honor, I believe that those who are irrelevant are you when you want to talk about employment, because you are not legitimized either to talk about employment or to talk about industry... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u362	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u363	...because you're the anti-industry, you're the anti-employment, and it seems they're all interested in Galicia going wrong.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u364	Quiet. A respect before and now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u365	In any case, I remind you of the data, without any problems, from the point of view of the active population survey, which you know you don't want to recognize, but I give you the data. We're at the level of membership when we get to the Government, April 2009: 1.029.000; October 2019: 1.027.000. The registered unemployed know he's been down in more than 46,300 people since we got to the government. I've already moved to my first intervention that the employment rate is the highest since 2009, 47.33%, and that the unemployment rate is at levels below 2009, 11.49%. So, Mrs Prado, I think that I should respect the figures a little more, that I should not twist them, and that I therefore bring here a serious debate, a rigorous debate and a debate that is useful for Galicia, that it is useful for the company, that it is useful for the workers and that it is not simply helpful to the demogoxy of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. In any case, we will continue to defend the position of the employees, we will continue to defend our Greek agenda, we will continue to defend in Madrid also that Navantia gives workload to the Ferrol shipyard—we will hope that you will support it too—, we will continue to defend the position of Alcoa, of the Bridges—as I told you—of Reganosa, of the just energy transition. We will continue to defend — that you don't want to talk — of the 100 companies that are in the public domain of the sea-terrestrial and are threatened by the Central Government in order to continue their activity. In short, this government has a Welsh agenda, this government has a defense of the productive fabric, and, unfortunately, what is missing is the Galician Nationalist Block. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u366	Thank you, Counselor. We've suspended the full till sixteen and forty-five, five minus fourth.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u367	Good afternoon. If you think so, we're still on the agenda. Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u368	The following appeal was postponed at the request of the Galician Council. I understand that it has already been communicated to the author group. And we moved on to the next interpellation, to 5.3. La Maria Luisa Pierres López and three other members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to the protection of the economic capacity of minors and victims of gender-based violence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u369	To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs. Pierres López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u370	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you, President. Welcome, Mr. Rueda. The truth is that today the parliamentary group brings the debate with you one of the likely most silent and invisible violence in our society, such as economic violence, a violence defined as intentional and not legally justified deprivation of resources for the physical or psychological well-being of women and their daughters and children, as well as discrimination in the availability of shared resources in the field of matrimonial coexistence. And although its effects are less obvious than those left by physical and/or sexual violence, economic violence, which often also involves heritage violence, is much more frequent for a greater number of women in the world. It's true that we've spent a few years, fortunately, in the Spanish and Greek context, referring to the generalized problem of all women with the pay divide, a more economic violence against women, and in this culturally and historically normalized case. And it's true that it's public debate itself, women's demonstrations every 8 March of the last three years, which is causing, among other things, speeding up the steps towards solving it and shortening the distances from the wages and economic capacity of men. Without a doubt, the rhythm is not in any case what we would like, and it is not only because they are too many — and we recognize — measures that need to be put in place, starting with equal training in all social fields, but that, in parallel, in the attempt to reduce the wage dividend has also increased a counter-reactionary and captained movement on the right-hand side of this country, which tries to dismantle and destabilize the feminist movement, which ultimately is the movement that watches and works for equality between men and women. And that's where this group expects this government to be firm and bet on pushing with the German women in the direction of the crack reduction, not the opposite direction. And it is not a reproach — believe me — it is an express request on a preventive basis. That's why today we asked him, among other things, about the knowledge that the Galician Union has about this kind of violence, about which it really doesn't talk, because often it's the most intimate and doesn't let it hit. It's an invisible weapon of subjection that prevents many women not only from ending a relationship of ill-treatment, but even starting the recovery process once they break up with their batterer. And it could be a mistake — and that's why I started talking about the pay gap — to think that economic violence only goes hand in hand with physics. In fact, there are many women who suffer for the first time economic violence at the very root of their separation, and not before, using their exquirements as an economic factor to make life difficult regardless of what their women were. And how do they do it? For they do not pass the compensatory pension, being regularly delayed in their abortion, failing to cope with joint debts or forcing the woman to charge to claim every expenditure related to children when they are in charge; a thousand and one modes. A kind of practice that shows that this type of violence is intrinsically accompanied by other types of violence, such as psychological violence, and that our self-legislation also collects and describes perfectly. I insist: collected in the law, but both little known and we think you're undercover. That is why we want to ask you today for the quantification of each case of violence, specifically those of economic origin, the knowledge that tells you of the existence of economic violence in each type of victim or the number of women who have denounced this type of violence as the main cause of abuse. And we asked him especially because we believe that many women who suffer from this kind of violence don't even know that it can be a cause for complaint. We need campaigns in this direction to better advise women. And as we also know that it's one of the reasons for consulting users who reflect and typify on the annual reports of CIMs, I ask you in this respect to know if they have quantified and sufficiently valued them. Because it seems that, in addition, these kinds of situations of economic violence exercised by expatriates are not alien to either and none of us. I think we all know or have heard about such a case, even among friends, even among family members, who have experienced situations of prolonged economic violence over time. And despite the extensive nature of this violence, the measures of protection, care and counselling to these women do not seem to have developed particularly by the Administration, and those that exist seem to be unknown to the citizenry, and therefore they lose their effectiveness. We asked you about this because I'm sure you know what it means — and I know it is — to work on women's empowerment, an expression that speaks of the process by which women acquire and strengthen their capabilities, strategies and protagonists, in order to achieve an autonomous life. And it's very difficult, it's very difficult to work in this direction if the consequences of economic violence are not diminished that effectively and figuratively prevent any process of reparation. And if this kind of economic violence is serious, even more so is when the person who commits it has previously been convicted of physical abuse. Because in that case the woman has taken the step of denouncing, separating and striving to redeploy her life, but economic violence forces her to continue to keep in touch with the batterer and constantly claiming her to meet her obligations, thus perpetuating a form of domination, which is what many of these men pursue. This situation of double violence concerns us especially, because this is probably one of the most decisive and explanatory factors why many women have not denounced their mates and ex-husbands, because they feel the dependence and link to them in a situation of domination and submission that goes far beyond the physical threat, and that in most cases it is extended to their children and children and to their economic stability and also -- why not? -- psychological. We're talking about women who are cancelled by their abuser, which translates most of the time into women who don't usually work outside their homes, so they don't generate income, they're dependent, which is obvious that they strongly anchor the domination of these men towards these women. And in many cases besides, they're women who don't know about income, expenses and debts that generate their couples, which makes them especially vulnerable. From the Socialist Group, therefore, we show our concern at all these cases of women, children and children who are victims of gender-based violence, and especially those who are seen in the circumstances of assuming, for example, debts that are the responsibility of the batterer. We understand that violence during a couple's relationship cannot be allowed to be sustained by adding another kind of violence that prevents victims from moving forward with their life plans. We believe that it is necessary and urgent to address these unjust realities. And, of course, we cannot forget in this debate perhaps the most serious economic violence, and the most miserable, that affects women victims of sexual trafficking, those that often cheated themselves into the dominion of a man to exploit his body, and that keep them trapped in a circle of exploitation with the threat of unpaid debt, as well as the physical abuse of them or his family. We firmly believe that politics, and most importantly when we talk about equality, has to focus on adding up to advance in rights and, of course, to improve people's lives and solve social injustice problems like these. That is why we would thank him today for the answers to the questions we have asked him: what kind of measures has this government put in place in the last four years to prevent economic violence against victims of violence? Do you have any knowledge of how many women victims of male violence in Galicia are due to the economic violence exercised over them? How many of these women suffer as the main cause of abuse? How many like a violence added to another or other? And finally, do you understand the Government that it is necessary to support women and minors who come out of a situation of ill-treatment, helping to break down not only emotional and physical burdens but also the economics that come from their batter? Just for the moment, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u371	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pierres. Mr. Rueda Valenzuela has the floor of the Vice-President and Counsellor, Public Administration and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u372	Good afternoon, gentlemen. Mrs. Pierres, good afternoon. I'm going to try as long as I have on both occasions to answer all the questions you ask, with the data we have — I think they are enough — and above all with the measures we have taken on this. First of all, of course, we fully agree that economic violence is a form of masculine violence. First, because we are firmly convinced — and the data so endorses — and secondly because — if there was any doubt — it is in the law since the year 2007; by the law of Galicia, by the way, it is not in many other autonomous ways, and it is not in the law at the state level. No government, including what is right now in office, considered it necessary to recognize economic violence as a form of gender-based violence, as a form of masculine violence. We have it since 2007, and article 3 of Law 11/2007 refers to economic violence, indicating that it is the one that includes the intentional deprivation and not legally justified of resources for the physical or psychological well-being of women and their children and children or discrimination at the disposal of shared resources in the context of the couple's coexistence. In fact, that's how this actually works. And, therefore, we fully agree that we have to put on the means to shorten it. I insist that not in all autonomous laws is made this express recognition, and I suppose, therefore, not all autonomous communities — and of course not the State — put in place the measures — or at least all the necessary measures — to shorten all the harmful consequences of a situation of masculine violence as a result of economic violence. You will agree that there are many experts besides that say it's very difficult at times to distinguish pure psychological violence as a form of violence masquerading from economic violence. And so, many times -- and I say it for statistical and identification purposes -- I think it's far more important to identify her to be able to react and help women and their children when they're suffering from this violence. I think this is really important, and beyond statistical data, which without any doubt also helps to define the problem. But I think the interesting, the important and the fundamental thing is that we know how to react when it really happens. And I think we've been here a long time. You've been asking me for the last four years. I'm going a little further, over the last ten years, to give you more information than has been done and the input data. Because, logically, against economic violence, the only remedy is not economic resources, but economic resources are a fundamental part of helping women who suffer from this violence. We agree, therefore, that it's a more form of abuse and a more masculine violence, and ultimately the control of the victim's economy by his partner or his ex-husband because it's sometimes a situation that many women feel as normalized, when it's not at all. Hence the importance of the first resources to detect it, the importance of the CIS — you have appointed us —. And besides, this situation is often aggravated in rural areas by sociocultural conditions, family living, the victim's environment, and it's much harder to detect it, and therefore, much harder to react to it, which doesn't mean that, of course, it won't have to do it, it's our obligation. You were asking what measures would arbitrate the Galician Union, which measures would make these women and their sons and daughters available to the Galician Union to fight against economic violence. I believe that there is a fundamental — and it is true that it has been since the time of the Bipartite and this government has kept it. I'm saying this because I'm talking about periodic aids — as you can imagine. I think that's the best way to find a situation like this, to help women start a new life, at least in their first phase. This is not the only measure, but I think it's fundamental. And I draw my attention again to the fact that Galicia is the only autonomous community that has these aids; it is true that it had Extremeura from 2014 to 2016 — if I'm not mistaken — there was a change in government, the socialist government, and those aids have disappeared. And no other autonomous community, neither the People's Party, nor the Socialist Party, nor any other party, has such help apart from Galicia. I insist: periodic help. I'm not talking about the single payment, which is already with state funds; and, of course, in Galicia they are too, but in Galicia they exist. And since 2009 -- I insist -- I know they came a little earlier -- this government has kept them and increased them. Since 2009, more than 4 000 women have benefited from these regular aid, and we are already talking about an amount that is close to 40 million euros — thirty-seven million and a half — invested in this periodic aid. By giving her a figure, in 2009, these aids were 2.2 million euros and reached 200 women; last year, seventy women, that is, more than triple, almost 80% of the cases attended. You know that we also raised the threshold twice the IPREM -- it was 1.5 -- apart from other improvements. And in 2019, five million euros, more than twice as much as in 2009, to meet the needs of women who require this periodic assistance. I think this is the best measure, a measure that needs to be maintained — I tell you honestly. I find it hard to understand, given the demand that they have and see above all their effectiveness as the first resource for many women, that we continue to be the only autonomous community, in addition to the resources of the State covenant they would allow this measure to be taken; no other autonomous community has taken it today; not only have we taken it, but we have kept it and have increased it and in the coming year we will increase it, always with a fundamental purpose: no woman who claims that she has the right to her will be left without this help. You know that there was a legal change to make the credits expandable, that there was not that interruption that had occurred a year ago, and I myself recognized it when the credit was exhausted to care for women who requested it until it was re-approached; now that's not happening, the credit is expandable automatically; therefore, all women who apply for it have up to a maximum of twelve months that periodic help. It is not the only measure or much less, but I think — I insist — that this is fundamental. And for giving you other complementary: specific autonomic plan for the insertion of work for women victims of male violence. Since 2016 — this is a relatively novel program — 833 women, a work placement of 158, so far 2.5 million euros invested since 2016. The new programme that we started last year, in which, in addition, we expanded the credit this year because there were — I think it is a good news — many more municipalities, many more than we initially preceded — I insist: it is a novice measure — who wanted to join this program and therefore hire women victims of masculine violence; we went from 800,000 to 1.4 million euros. It will be helped in 2019 by this expansion 77 women victims of macho violence, hired by local corporations, of all political colors, which — I insist: it's a good news — wanted to participate in this program, and some request from some county could not be met by credit failure. We'll try not to be like this next year. The Emega program, for women entrepreneurs. We always say that there is a lot of female talent, and therefore all women have the right to that small aid from the Administration, which, sometimes, by starting an economic enterprise (a small company, a small economic activity), often also gives them the economic independence that they don't have when they live with the batterer. They're almost 300 jobs created during these years with the Emega program, 10 million euros. The conciliation. I think it's also a way of economic violence many times and, therefore, of macho violence to put women in trouble about conciliation, that they always have to take care of everything they have to do with the care of their children, and therefore have a lot of work limitations. I believe that the aid to conciliation, in which we have also invested an important game — it is in force, as you are sure you know, the Greek Conciliation and Co-responsibility Plan —, also helps to put an end to these situations that can result in economic violence. By giving you a data, in 2020 we're going to increase 16.9 % of the aid for conciliation and reduction of the day also in men and single-parent families. Of course, I've already told you that there are many experts who agree that economic violence could even be incardinated in some cases within psychological violence or at least can derive from it. So the aid, the victim's psychological care program, many of them victims of violence, I assumed that almost five thousand and five hundred people since 2009 have been cared for and often through this psychological assistance program have been able to detect and therefore denounce and get out of this situation that they were living in subjection to economic violence and masculine violence. Another measure that I think is very important: you help housing, this year with a specific social lease bonus for victims of violence, with an budget of more than 1.5 million euros, to help women to have their own housing and therefore get out of this situation of economic violence, masculine violence. We support and maintain the network of foster homes — I believe it is also fundamental — increasing funds. And by giving him other measures in my time and safe from the second intervention, we make it easier to access victims of masculine violence in the processing of risk aid when they have a short procedure, when these aid comes. We set up the I Action Plan for Equality in Galicia's educational centres. In that I believe that we all agree: the issue of equality is fundamental to preventing situations that later have much more difficult to remedy. So let's keep insisting on that. I believe that in the end it is another way to avoid future situations of economic violence, macho violence. Immediate schooling of child victims. Out of eleven cases in the 2008-2009 course passed to sixty-six in 2016-2017, the latest data we have, but surely it continued to increase.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u373	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u374	And, therefore, Mrs. Pierres, I believe that the fundamental, indeed, after recognizing that economic violence is a form of violence, is to know what is being done for women...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u375	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u376	...no longer suffers this situation, and I think this government is doing a lot of things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u377	Thank you very much, Counselor. On the replica round, you have the floor to Mrs. Pierres López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u378	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. Rueda, for the exposure and the answers you have provided us, answers that to our view we find that information and awareness of economic violence remains much to be done, because no one has named, by not saying then that almost everything is to be done. The measures that have been put in place and which we value positively — I believe this is so — and, as you have said, of periodic aid, already implemented by the Bipartite, are measures which, however, are more focused on the final point. And what do I mean by this? They focus on the final phase of a pre-existing violence process, in which the victim has already conquered the circle of violence and needs resources, of course, yes; but not so much focus on the restorative or intermediate phase, in which many women are currently found, and who see how physical or psychological violence persists through the economic violence that continues to exert on them their own mate, those women who often suffer in addition to low self-esteem and are convinced of their own inability to take advantage of themselves, subject to an absolute relationship of domination of their partners or exquirers. That's why, and by sharing with you the concerns of our group, which goes beyond providing resources, as you said, because all the measures that you have commented on are about resources, we wanted to highlight both the need to address the problem of taking on perpetual violence in time and the need to assume the debts of the batterer. And for that, allow me to transfer to you through real cases the issues that really concern us. The case of Marta, who is a woman who has been a victim of physical violence for years. She lived with Fermín, her batterer, being married in addition to the income regime and sharing a mortgage loan on her dwelling. One day Marta made the decision to stay away from her aggressor and to break that cycle of violence to which she was subjected and decide to divorce. But Fermin, not according to this decision, employed as a pressure weapon the default of his share of the common mortgage. Martha was thus obliged to take the full payment so she wouldn't have to stay in the street and lose the house. Since this matter was not covered by the regulatory agreement, he had no access to deduction, for example, per housing of 100%, but only of 50%. This situation had endured Marta for years and would have had an easy solution if the Galician Board had changed its deduction in this case of the autonomous side so that she and many other Marta victims of gender violence could justify that when 100% mortgage payment is made, the deduction can also be applied by 100%. A situation that would not, moreover, be very different from, for example, the extraordinary measures that have already been taken with other types of collectives; here is an example: those affected by the explosions in Tui, with the deduction of the total amount of the autonomous quota on the aid received subject to taxation. Nor would it be different to those that have already been applied to other collectives for aid to property tax or documented legal acts, in which the type could also be reduced to 5% for habitual housing purchase, also for victims of gender-based violence. And I put the example also of a woman to whom, years after she had a sentence of ill-treatment and subsequent divorce, as in her day she had the statement in conjunction with her ex-husband, a notice of default embargo of the IRPF, with state quota and autonomous quota, as a subsidiary of her ex-husband for unprescribed debts, because in application of the tax regulations in a joint declaration this woman is responsible for the debts acquired by her ex-husband, although in fact the only one responsible had been him. This victim is a subsidiary debtor and Fairy claims him, as established by the General Tax Law, the acquittal of debt, whether or not he is aware of it. In this case, this parliament would have the power to seek solutions to those cases that are unfair and to the part that corresponds to the autonomous quotas. Does that mean that we want all women victims to receive exemptions and if they forgive their debts? No, it is not — and I want to make it clear, I want to make it clear, very clear — to establish a fiscal amnesty, but to discriminate positively in very specific cases that are absolutely unfair and to remove all possible obstacles so that victims of masculine violence can recover their lives in all areas. Today, we are talking about it, with examples showing the possibility that this government will be opened up to work on the development of measures of a tax nature and that they could improve — and much — the recovery of victims.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u379	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u380	...... yes, I'm done. But not only of them, but also of their children, their daughters, so that economic violence will not be prolonged in time and that their heritage will not be affected, so that psychological and self-esteem damage will be minimized, which on many occasions and with this kind of injustice greatly hinders their recovery. That's why I'm asking...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u381	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u382	...—the end—is shared with us that are many tax measures, from exemptions, deductions and reduction of tax rates, which can be put in place for women victims of violence in Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u383	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u384	...as we see from the existence of an exhaustive knowledge of such situations as those I have reported to you and many more. For our part, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u385	Thank you very much. Mr. Rueda Valenzuela has the floor of the Vice-President and Counsellor, Public Administration and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u386	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Pierres, answering her last question, of course we have knowledge, especially, as I told you in my first speech, through the CIMs, which are the closest resources, which often at first detect these types of situations and on which I remind you that they are municipal centers but mostly covered by the Galician Union and therefore with reporting obligations, which are the ones that advise us precisely — and that is why I once again express my strangeness — continue to maintain the periodic assistance. You said that periodic aid is very good, and that -- I told you -- they started with you; we have kept them for many years, and we're going to keep them going on as long as they're necessary; I hope one day they weren't, but the truth is, I don't agree. You said I was the end of a path. No, no, it is that many times when such situations are detected, if we agree — and I understand that yes — that economic violence is macho violence, when it is detected that economic violence is taking place, often the worker, the social worker of the council, the CIS professionals are the ones who tell these women that they have a way out and that they have -- I don't want to call them a stimulus -- the possibility of being able to accommodate the situation that they are going to be given when they stop living with the batterer — also the economic batterer is a male abuser of machist violence, because they will have those help. So I think they're fundamental. They don't appear when you break up with the situation, often they're a stimulus to break up with the situation. So I think we should agree on that. If we remove them -- I suppose they'll think about it, or they'll think about a lot of autonomous communities -- I think it's a mistake, that you don't need to put them down because really the problems come from a long time ago, and this is a final phase. No, no, I'm often a major solution and I'm a stimulus for women who are suffering economic violence, macho violence, to stop suffering because they don't have to suffer it one day more. So, I'm very careful with that, because, if we have this clear, we will continue to keep these aids in Galicia and, if not, we will do as the rest of the autonomous communities, of all political parties, who now have the funds of the state pact, are not devoting them to this purpose, which we consider from the Government of the Fundamental Galician Union. I agree with you on one thing. For yes, it would probably be better to deepen further awareness that economic violence is macho violence, especially for what I was saying to her in my first intervention: that many women who are suffering from it are aware that they are actually suffering from it, that they are aware that it is macho violence — pressure, violence, denial of the most fundamental economic resources by their partner — and, therefore, that they are breaking up with that situation, because they have to know that later they will have the support of the administrations, especially the Galician Union. So we agree that the more sensitization — and probably much more — will have to be done, much better. All administrations have to help. By the way, you in the text of your interpellation spoke — and it is true — of the problems that arise in mortgage payments when there is a joint housing, of course, that must be paid. Listen! FEMP — it is a measure of the state pact against gender violence — is going to do a study on the situation that is taking place and, above all, the consequences resulting from the default of mortgage quotas when it corresponds jointly to the batterer and the victim and we are still waiting for this study, which would be very useful to know what is going on and, therefore, to know whether the resources we are targeting are being properly earmarked or should have to be particularly affected in this situation. I think this study is necessary. The Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces just stopped doing it, and I don't think it did. I suppose, if I had, we'd already have it at our disposal, and it's already time for the state pact; therefore, we must not consider it so urgent; of course we do. With regard to the measures you do, you have made an impact on your intervention on tax measures. I think they also have consequences, of course, because in the end, when paying taxes, if there are defaults on one side, the consequences are for both, especially since the normal marriage regime in Galicia is the system of profits and therefore the consequences of the defaulting of a direct impact on both and above all the part which is not to blame for those payments. That is why I think that, apart from claiming measures in the fiscal order, which you also — and you know — were talking about the deductions of the autonomic process, the much larger deductions are those that refer to taxes with origin and state collection and above all the competition to modify those laws, which I don't say you don't have to do; that analysis had to be done among all with consensus and without trying to draw any political revenue, as we have to tackle all this problem seriously if we want to be effective, but it's a state competition. I would expand and go much further to change the rules that have to do with civil law, with the Civil Code, because if we go only to the consequences, which are taxary, of applying the rules that are civil, we probably wouldn't be much less, probably no, we wouldn't be shortening the problem. So we should talk about pensions, housing, a lot of things that do have to do with civil rights and that then have their consequences, their translation in order to pay tax obligations. So I agree that all of this can be talked about. It is true that there are many things that have little to do with the competence of the Galician Council, but I think that, in addition, it is a good proposal and we will move it so that the Galician Civil Rights Commission will study that changes — which I fear will not be too much, but, whenever anything can be done in this matter, welcome be — could be done in Galician civil rights to try...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u387	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u388	...attribute the problems faced by women who suffer from violence in coping with economic obligations, when, in addition, they are not the ones who do not comply, they are their husbands, who are still above being abusive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u389	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's turn to questions to the Government now. Question by D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members of the G.P. Nationalist Block Galego, about the position of the Greek Government regarding the opening of a gambling and gaming room in Roundupla, near a school area
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u390	To put the question, Mr. Bará Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u391	Good afternoon, Mr. Rueda. We bring here today a real social outcry and a concern, an alarm that is taking place throughout the country and in this case in the village of Roundola. Here is a representation of the platform that is being organized and mobilized against this gaming room, which is now authorized by the Galician Union, although we understand that it is in compliance with current legislation. This is a public health problem, a social problem, also of coexistence, which also has serious economic consequences; for some it has consequences in the form of millions of benefits, but for working people it has very serious consequences for their economy. And this problem was encouraged, propitiated, promoted by the governments of the People's Party, both in Madrid and in the Unity of Galicia, over five years, each in the field of their competences. And I would like to remind you of the proliferation of betting houses, gambling halls, gambling machines as well as gambling machines that have occurred in Galicia in recent years, to a large extent also in the wake of the reforms introduced by you in the Game Law, through the back door, by the very end of the accompanying Law. And so we have that in the first five months of this year 2019 23 betting houses have been authorized in Galicia, one of them precisely around Round it, raising the total to 159, and I no longer tell you the number of betting machines and games that were installed in hostel sites, also thanks to the extension you approved, which allows you to reach 3,600. And you are the most responsible of this situation as the adviser who has the powers in this matter. And it is also your responsibility to change the Game Law, by the way, in 2015, which allowed a new casino to be opened in Vigo, a large gambling and gambling home, to benefit, by the way, large business groups, because one of the owners of this company is nothing more and nothing less than the Voitre Blackstone fund, which we already know is dedicated to. For these companies at the Vigo casino, with which you go out in the photos presenting the infographics of this new casino, because they are precisely the promoters of the home of Roundola, Cirsa and more Egasa, which is now called Luckia, who are presented with a more neutral name of Union of Reunion Operators, it is not going to be that they associate them with these authentic votaries. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows a photograph.]] Well, in the face of this attempt to open these playrooms, there's a great social mobilization in Roundla, and of course we think that they clearly violate the rules, the current regulations, because they're less than 150 meters away from the educational centers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u392	Thank you, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u393	And as this circumstance happens, I want to ask you, are you going to review...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u394	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u395	...this authorization that was given to the home of bets and playrooms in Round it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u396	Thank you very much. Mr. Rueda Valenzuela has the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u397	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Bará. A greeting also to the platform that is present in the rostrum, the neighbors and neighbors of Round it. I'm going to dedicate my first part of the intervention -- I have a second, since you've also done it: ask for a specific case but it makes me a general disquisition about who supports, who doesn't support, who is interested, who isn't interested in the development of the game -- saying a number of things that is good for everyone to know, I'm sure the neighbors and neighbors of Round it, because you certainly didn't tell them. I insist that in the second part I will enter the specific case of Roundola, as my obligation is. You ask me about it, but, of course, you ask me about something else. He says we're not doing anything, we're not worried, we're favoring development and gambling addiction. At all, the opposite: we're making a law because we're aware it's a problem. We agreed at least to understand that this is a problem. Another thing is the things that are done, the things that you have done in your moment to shorten a problem you've seen. We also agree that this is a boom, not only in Galicia, but in the other autonomous communities, and therefore it is becoming a public health problem, and therefore this public health problem has all autonomous communities, to a greater or lesser extent, but I fear it is quite uniform. And it's true that we also have obsolete legislation, but it's not long ago. You said a number of things here. In the slots, we did what we did was contain them; those who shot the number were you, because it's good to know that there's a regulation of the year 2008, in which the Bipartite ruled, at its moment of profound innovation, who knows that it was obsolete right away. You yourself recognize that it introduces mechanisms for the dynamism and development of the sector — you see: in 2008 it was necessary to introduce mechanisms for the development and expansion of the sector — and it leaves the door open to simplifying administrative procedures and facilitating the incorporation of companies — of play, it is understood — into economic activity. That's what you were saying in 2008, that's what we want to cut down now with this law, but on the open door to which there was -- it's true that the betting houses came after -- drug dealers, who are the direct predecessors of the betting houses, who expanded the number, who gave eases for it to be held in hostel, and besides eliminating much competition, it was you, and who forced that we had to confront them, that is, that we said that there was a maximum number, within a regulation that you left absolutely wide. So let's put the things where they are and don't pretend that some of them did everything they could to make a lot of play and others did everything the opposite. Because we're trying to correct what happened during these years, which I'm not saying was your fault, but that, when they had the opportunity to regulate it, they did everything they could to make it expand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u398	Thank you very much, Counselor. You have the word, to reply, Mr. Bará Torres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u399	It seems to me an absolute disrespect that this first turn of action had not said a single word about the playhouse in Roundola, which is the reason for our question, Mr. Rueda. He wants to talk later when we don't have a chance to replicate. [[Applause]] And you saw him say here, that the fault is with the Bipartite. It's also the fault they've proliferated over the last five years all over the country, like fungi, betting houses and playrooms, it turns out it's from the bipartite slots. But what are you telling me? Do you want to take our hair? Because you were in the changes that made the law, by the way, a law of 1975, which is thirty-four years old; you had a lot of time to change it, and since 2008, eleven years have passed, you had a lot of time to change it, you changed it to favor these big companies, when you increased the number of slot machines and when you also made that modification to allow the Vigo casino, which, I told you, is owned by Egasa, Cirsa, and it is also owned by Blackstone, it is owned by Lucky, a company that is being investigated by a corruption case. I want to ask you a clear question, because there are a lot of people pending your answer, there are a lot of people who are concerned, who have mobilized themselves, who have manifested themselves in Roundabout, who are collecting signatures, who are collecting claims, who are reporting the lack of transparency with which they have processed all this authorization, because you have given an authorization to a place that, according to our opinion, violates the rules of distance with regard to school, because it says the regulations that in no case will the installation of lounges less than 150 metres from the normal access to entry or exit of official centres that teach regulated to minors. Mr. Rueda, do you think that the school of music and municipal conservatory in Roundola is a school, an educational center where there are minors? Tell me, is it or isn't it? Because that center is less than 150 meters away, and therefore you have to review that authorization. Tell us here what they're going to do, what they're going to stop this betting house from setting up in Roundla. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u400	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. Mr. Rueda Valenzuela has the floor to reply to the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u401	Thank you. Mr. Bará, don't waste any more time. You are the one who does the question and dedicates most of your first intervention to speaking of everything less than you ask me. So I have responded and, consequently and with regard to the neighbors of Round it, of course I will answer it, despite the fact that what makes the question is you, about the case of Round it and, of course, enter into the matter. Look, you know perfectly well that there's an authorization granted. By the way, we were the ones we limited; there are no more betting houses in Galicia; many autonomous communities have not done so and those that were before being dealt with. And, therefore, the documentation there was: copy of the lease contract, basic project of the works, fee payment document, high gambling inspection, about compliance with distances. Technicians, who are going to measure and have no political orientation, say that the instances are being met, but this doesn't mean that the opening will be authorized, at least not with the permission of the Board. In fact, you know what the situation is now. We're pending, I know, from the council license, about which, if you want to serve as a lead, what the mayor of Round it says on the official website, says, about this authorization, about the possible license you have to give the council so that the betting house works: "No matter what opinion you might have in particular, the council has no more tools to apply the legality. An administration cannot prevent the opening of these establishments once all proceedings have been completed." This is supposed to be the front of the mayor of Roundella, the municipal government of Roundella, to tell the neighbors that he will also authorize and that there will be a license, because he has to comply with the law. Exactly the same as the Galician Union, exactly the same as the Galician Union. You're supposed to validate this, and you're going to say that the mayor of Roundabout is saying what you have to say, but, on the other hand, the Galician Union, which is applying exactly the same legality and the 2008 Regulation — that you didn't like anything that named it, but that's how we're applying it too — and with that regulation in hand it turns out that we had to give that authorization, just as I suppose the Roundup Council would have to give you the municipal license. Now we are urged to revoke the authorization we have given. Look, I have, as a Galician board administration, to urge the Round Hall to say whether you have or do not have to comply with the law, giving or not the license if you meet the requirements, not pass the ball to the other administration. Let's respect the neighbors and neighbors, let's tell the truth. If the regulation is what it is, you'll have to comply with it, and if you don't, you'll have to change it, which is what we're trying to do. Hey! When the law is changed, the distances will increase. I hope you vote in favour of that law. I hope they don't stop us from moving these betting houses away from the educational centers. I hope they don't apply the demagogy they're applying right now. Look, do you know the difference between the administration of the Galician Union and what you want other administrations to do? It's just that we're both consistent in applying them. What happens is that some are cowards and others are not.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u402	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u403	Don't worry, that we comply with the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u404	Thank you very much, Vice President. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Mr Martín Fernández Prado and six other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on how it affects the amendment of the Regulation of the Law of Back to Companies and Equipments located in public maritime-terrestrial domain in the Galician Community
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u405	To put the question, Mr. Moreira Ferro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u406	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, good afternoon. This year it was known that the Government of the State has initiated an urgent procedure for amending the General Coastal Regulation, particularly on the time limits for the extension of the occupation of the maritime-terrestrial public domain. This is a procedure that leaves many companies and facilities in the maritime-terrestrial public domain area in danger and legal insecurity. This decision by the Central Government seems to have as its objective to try to defend and justify decisions such as the one taken in recent months in the proceedings opened with regard to the extension of the company Ence. And that's what the facts say, since that raid at the price of the extension of Ence was signed on 6 March, and days later the processing of this amendment of the General Back Regulation began. It must be said that this decision is a reprobable decision both in the background and in the forms. In the first place, because it was carried out without having informed the President of the Council of Galicia, who is the ordinary representative of the State in Galicia, and also lacking in respect of the principle of institutional loyalty and the principle of cooperation and coordination between administrations. This contempt was greater even when it was known that anyone who had knowledge of this decision of alienation — not the president of the Galician Union — was the spokesman of the Socialist Party in Pontevedra. It is also reprehensible at the bottom, since in 2015 the State Counsel issued a favourable report on this extension. In 2018 Pedro Sánchez arrived at the presidency of the Government and, in that same year, the State Counsel, following instructions obviously from the Government, modified his approach and, where he had issued a favourable report, said that that extension was not adjusted to the law. All of this calling for a ruling from the Council of the Twisted State, since it is agreed to mention only the part in which the Council of State speaks of the extensions of concessions after the law of 2013, but not to fall into account or not to mention that when it speaks of extensions to previous concessions if it establishes that they can exceed seventy-five years. This decision, which, in principle, seems to have been intended to harm a company, is ultimately having more damage, with the result that it can affect industries such as the conservation industry, an industry that invoices more than EUR 10 billion per year — more than the annual budget of the Galician Union — as well as equipment and educational facilities, health centres, etc. Therefore, in the face of this danger, of legal insecurity for companies operating in the public maritime-terrestrial domain and for the jobs that depend on them — which is the most worrying thing to us — we asked you, Counsellor: what is the extent, what can it have, what consequences it can have and what content can have this amendment of the General Cost Regulation as regards companies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u407	Thank you very much, Mr. Moreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u408	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u409	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vázquez Mejuto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u410	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. Moreira. I would like to thank you for raising this question and, in addition, for today's day, for we have been warning since April of the enormous legal insecurity and the disastrous consequences that Galicia will bring about the amendment of the Rules of the Law of Back which Mr. Sánchez has been pushing. And I say I'm glad, in addition, that I can give you an answer today, because there were several meetings that we held by the Sea Councillor and myself, and there were collectives, and there were also Members who accused us of being a political paraphernalia and that we used it always before elections. Since April seven months have passed, there have been several elections — I almost lost myself in the number of elections! — and the situation is still the same. And I think we have a chance right now. We all have a chance! On the one hand, the Council of Galicia, which is calling on it to move back in its amendment to this regulation. But now that there seems to be a new government, I would also like to urge Members who are part of these political groups to form a new government to be set up to study this regulation, to feel with the people of the sea and, therefore, to say that we cannot go ahead with this regulation; because, in fact, what is intended is to amend a law, and to do it through the back door. Who's going to be affected? For the coastal coastal installations, the marine-terrestrial public domain and all public equipment will be affected. And we talk about companies but we also talk about housing; we talk about eighty municipalities; we talk about more than two thousand five hundred miles of coastline, and we talk about more than five thousand installations. But I already want to focus on more than a hundred sea-industry facilities and, therefore, on many jobs. The regulatory change that has driven the PSOE, which has driven Mr. Sánchez from the central government, is detrimental. It's very prejudicial to Galicia and, above all, leave us in a situation of total insecurity; legal insecurity so they don't continue to advance in the development of their economy. But it's more: Galicia is going back. How does this regulation change in relation to what we had before? We had a very clear law. We have a very clear law. It's a law of the year 2013, a law driven by the People's Party and a law that, in addition, makes it possible to protect economic activity and also balance. Mr. Leicega, for God's sake, you who always studies things well, don't say no, because in the end, instead of giving him up almost with applause, it's not gonna be that we have to slap him. That is, it's a very clear law of the year 2013, where there are extensions for the 70-five-year concessions. Now, all of a sudden, what do you want to do with a regulation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u411	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u412	...is to lower that extension by subtracting the time that has passed since the concession was granted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u413	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u414	Mr. Moreira Ferro has the floor for the reply. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u415	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Counselor. I believe that, if the danger for all these jobs before the last elections was clear, it is clear that this danger will be greater from now on. We know that Pedro Sánchez did everything he could to make Galicia wrong. And we know that Sánchez and the Tides of Podemos or Podemos-En Marea will continue to do everything possible to keep Galicia going wrong from the state government. Fortunately, here we have a stable government that works for companies, works for industries, cares for workers in this situation of orphanhood by the Government of the State. With regard to the extension of Ence — and this can be transferred to more companies like the canteens — it is clear that it is unacceptable for the State to lower its arms in a conflict, in a judicial dispute, to refuse to defend an administrative procedure which the Government of the State itself, the General Administration of the State, has carried out; a report which has made favours and of what I am now despondent. This is jeopardizing five thousand jobs — direct or indirect work — only of this company, with a profound socio-economic impact on Pontevedra's bar and throughout Galicia. It also endangers the income of more than eighty thousand families, who sell their wood in Galicia and who annually enter 300 million euros for that sale. And therefore this position by the Government of the State is unacceptable. I am allowed, Counsellor, what seems to be a sarcasm is that when an analysis of the executive summary of the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, in the section of "Effects on the general economy", it is a sarcasm that the Government of the State says that "the effects on the economy in general are expected to be positive". I think this is unacceptable; and therefore, thank you, Counselor. We trust the Government of Galician Union. All the industries in this situation trust the Government of Galicia, because if they had to trust the Government of the State...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u416	Thank you very much, Mr. Moreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u417	...they'd get caught. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u418	For the Government's reply, Mrs. Environmental, Territorial and Living Counsellor, Mrs. Vázquez Mejuto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u419	Thank you, Mr. President. I want to greet the people who are in the rostrum today. I mean, Mr. Leicega, if you go to Madrid, if you're going to be a senator, the least you have to do is defend and support... he told me to you because you're telling me "no" with your head. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You mean there's no-- there's a change to the regulation, yes or no? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, yes, there's a change to the regulation that you wanted to push. [[Murmurs.]] In addition, the only thing that was done at night and also with alleviation was to expose it on the Ministry's website for the Ecological Transition. From there we had ten days to make the allegations; the sector didn't even find out and couldn't make those allegations. But we're going to continue in this fight. And this struggle is that at the end of the day we have to be recognized that if we have to re-exposure publicly so that the rest of the collectives can see it and therefore make the relevant allegations. If we continue with this thesis and want to continue with the amendment of the regulation, what we will do will be characterised at its moment in the Council of State. Why? Because industries are affected, housing is affected; but what is also affected are the maximum concession periods of crop farms. For only in the area of Carril there are six hundred farms and bats identified. In the end, it's three thousand five hundred farms. So we can't keep our arms crossed. The Galician Union is doing its job. But it's been doing it since April and, besides, it's doing it from the technical field and from the legal field, because there's a great legal insecurity and because reality is already there and that reality is obvious. We have clear examples of the interpretation of the new regulation without this regulation being adopted, as is the case with the Tres Mares in Liris, where after asking for an extension of that grant the result was very poor. Therefore, the Galician Union will continue as it has done since April and will continue to provide relevant information clearly, as the State should do and did not. Why, besides -- you know one thing? -- you didn't study anything at all, you didn't want to go back, and this is just a patch to cover up the bait. Because they know they've got a kick, and instead of just focusing on Ence, they're taking the whole of the Welsh coast forward; that is, they're taking the drummers, the industry and the public services. It's a total of five thousand installations that are affected. So, Mr. Moreira, we will continue. The Sea Councillor and the Environment Adviser...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u420	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u421	...and, therefore, the Galician Union will continue to fight for justice in the case of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u422	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u423	Your time is up. Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the evaluation of the xunta de Galicia regarding the fulfilment of the temporal horizon established in the year 2013 for the end of the action called round east of Lugo, third II: LU-530 - N-VI, provided for in the programme of high-performance pathways.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u424	To put the question, Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u425	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Mrs. Environment Advisor, I'm sorry to have you address me before leaving the Chamber. For Mr. Leicega, all was praise. What a pity your comment on the buffido! That's too bad! [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, Madam Infrastructure and Mobility Advisor: in 2020 there will be autonomous elections. I'm not going to predict any kind of election result, it's not gonna be that someone starts to argue unnecessarily. I'm just saying this Galician joint, because it's going to be another necessarily... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u426	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u427	...will have the responsibility to manage everything that refers to infrastructure and mobility; in particular, the Plan of Mobility and Strategic Road Management 2009-2015, known as Plan Move. It's a real proof of the failure of this plan that, by the end of 2019, we're talking about something that had to be finished by 2015. But that's the reality. With regard to initial planning, and already in October 2010, you made a 621 million-euro reduction on the initial forecasts of 4,265 million euros, which, in addition to the facts, through budgets year by year, were reducing without anyone knowing any kind of planning with respect to that reduction. In this Move Plan there was a stretch of the eastern round of Lugo with a length of three kilometers — 2,9 — and an budget of 8,600,000 euros, of which was the time ending in 2013; that is, seven years ago. All you know about citizenship — not just from Lugo, but from the province — that will use this infrastructure at its moment is that, in the absence of budgets, in December 2018 -- yes, two days before the day of the innocent saints -- the delegate of the Union at Lugo held a meeting with neighbouring groups to present the construction project of this second phase of this east round, with an investment, according to the delegate of the Galician Union, of 22 million euros, to which it would have to add between 2 or 3 million, as if this were a matter of minute sin, in expropriation. The reality is that all that has been done since then was to present this panel, because the Vice-President himself said that by 2019 there was no euro in the budgets of the Galician Union for this round east. Now, by 2020, you budget 500,000 euros, with a forecast up to 2023; that is, it will take three or more years to do this infrastructure, Counsellor, what do you do about the reality of the eastern round of Lugo in this initially planned frame? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u428	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u429	Thank you, President. Yes, Your Honor, I believe that, before answering the concrete question, it is necessary and very important to put in context the situation and shed light on the past years in terms of infrastructure and on the economic situation we live in, which you seem to want to be obvious, but that was a reality because we had many economic difficulties in the Council of Galicia, in the Autonomous Community. We had to prioritize, implement and preserve investments in health, education and social policy, the most urgent ones for the Galician Union. I think you will share with me that in economic crisis you must prioritize and invest in these matters that are urgent and priority, which from then on to next to Galicia if they are. And, for the Infrastructure Advisor, I also assure you that it is. Instead, you in economic favor leave mortgages, because you're a duty specialist. And, of course, with economic kindness and fat cows, they leave mortgages: 3,9 billion euros in mortgages. That's the context in which we've been in the last few years: to get into the economic crisis with that "let it go," where you're the experts. We had to be more efficient in investments, be efficient, with realism and responsibility, doing the works as they have to be, viable, doing what we can pay; doing it through phases, budgetary pathway — because this is how the works are done, lordship, doing, as it is said in life, a hard peseta. You don't know, because you're done with duty. We had to do, in these very complicated years, a hard peseta. They were 210 kilometres of high-speed routes free of tariff benefits in the midst of economic crisis — an increase of 70% —. You don't know what it is. But, of course, lessons, just about infrastructure in years of economic crisis. In infrastructures in Lugo I believe that it is evident the will of the Galician Union with Lugo and with the infrastructures, and also in economic crisis. There is the fact of completing the bus with Vilalba, Ferrol-Vilalba; Celero-San Cibrao; the Sarria-Monforte corridor — EUR 135 million — where we are working to unfold. When circumstances allow it economically, we re-position the political agenda at the forefront of the East round, as we do, which you well know is that there is a specific budgetary split for the east round of Lugo City Hall — €2.8 million to connect LU-530 to national VI, to close that circle, with 22 million euros, yes, because it is a complex infrastructure that has structures, and that has a specific share with 300,000 euros — because there is a will, budgets reflect the political will of the Government. Look at the state budgets — those ruinous ones of Pedro Sánchez — Pedro Sánchez's political will with Galicia But with us, yes, the political will with Lugo is in the budgets of 2020; because we will have budgets, which others cannot say. [[Murmurs.]] For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u430	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the reply, Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u431	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counselor, what about the east round? Of course! [[Laughter]] It's just that I think it's very good that you use my question to talk about the government of the state, to talk about socialists being specialists in quitting duty. [[Applause]] You're specialists in leaving behind, leaving behind. Yes, because the reality is that if you find someone in Lugo who is moderately convinced that the decided gambling of the Galician Union by the city or by the province has something to deal with further, since it is Mr. Conde — good afternoon, Counsellor — of the Pole of Rozas, who obviously is there. But, look, Counselor, tell you that the Council of Galicia has a lot of will. Well, a lot of will will be true, but what is true is that what they have is an impressive ability to advertise without facts behind it. Because if after an infrastructure that was planned to end in 2013 comes the Junta delegate at the end of 2018 to announce that it will be completed, in the best of cases, in the year 2023 — with these budgets for the east round of Lugo to which you referred, that I would say they are "Guadiana budgets" because they are not, and the same thing as they were before, now no, was what happened to these budgets, and the east round appeared and disappeared, and now it reappears suddenly — the only thing you can talk about with the City of Lugo, the only one that Lugo citizen could argue, is that the delegate of Junta de Galicia made this picture — which I bring as a graphic document number 1 — with a group of neighbors in front of the Junta building in Lugo, where they present a panel. [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez shows a picture.]] A few minutes later — I report it as graphic document number 2 — all, with the panel included, are in the meeting room of the Galician board. [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez shows a second picture.]] And this is the only thing that's been done. And this why? Because there were evidently municipal elections in 2019. And that's the only reality. [[Murmurs.]] Counsellor, can you commit yourself to the citizenship and to the province of Lugo to which this infrastructure will be completed within the specified time limits?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u432	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez. Replica from the Government. Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u433	Thank you. Commitment to Lugo always, Your Honor, of course it is. You know my kinship with Lugo. In any case, the facts ahead. That's what socialist governments do in Lugo and Madrid. The story is there, I don't make it up. There are 10 million euros from Galician board invested in the Paradai Plan and we can't follow, which blocks us from the Town Hall of Lugo. In the greenhouse of Meira there is a given project, and years and years waiting for the Town Hall of Lugo. From Meira's greenhouse, what? Yes, in the Paradai Plan, where the Lugo Town Hall is not able to adapt the PXOM to the requirements of the Confederation [[Applause]] I hope they demand the Town Hall of Lugo not to block us the east round that we are willing to push, and in which we are working to push. As soon as we have budgets, don't worry. He should be more concerned about other things than the Galician Union and his commitment to Lugo. As soon as we open the budgets, which we will have, of course we will bid for the update of that project in the east of Lugo. Because we have a budget start, we have a will and we have budgets that we will have approved, because it is in the political agenda. And then, as I say again, budgets show the will of every government, as well as working and pushing the performances. We have seen what the will of other governments is, as is the Government of Spain of the Socialist Party, with that ruin of budgets also with Lugo — not only with Galicia, but also with Lugo. Unquestionable examples: I don't think it's understood to be before the party in Lugo before, for example, the intermodal station, the arrangement with the intermodal station. So what about the intermodal station? From the parking lot of the intermodal station what? That Adef doesn't fund the parking lot of the intermodal station, what? As you say. From the east round you know we're going to bid early next year. Delays: in the orbital link in Santiago, in the Coruña intermodal; blocking, blocking and blocking... Construction of the dry port connection with the national 120 we've already seen that in the Adif block. So what am I going to tell you about taking pictures from the delegate here? I see you're fans of the Galician Union Delegate in Lugo. But they block the Paradai Plan, the Socialist Party blocks the Paradai Plan, the Socialist Party blocks the intermodal stations in Galicia, the Socialist Party blocks the Ártebra track, and, by going against yourself, they also block the highway to Lugo. [[Murmurs.]] They block themselves among the ministries. Therefore, they are specialists in blocking; we in making, with budgets and with facts. You're specialists in blocking infrastructure. They ask, they ask, but then they want to lock them up. Therefore, to the Town Hall of Lugo, please ask us not to block the east round. We speak with facts, with budgets, with EUR 47.5 million in the budgets of 2020, this is commitment and work for Lugo: conversion of the Lugo-Sarria bus, integral health center, with the neighbourhood of Residence thanks to the Galician board, intermodal station, roads... That's the difference: you leave duty, puppies and blockades; we, budgets and facts. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u434	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question from Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the claim by the Board of Galicia to Naturgy of the maintenance of the customer service jobs located in the Galician Technology Park, in the Oresan Town Hall of San Cibrao das Viñas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u435	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u436	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Counsellor, as you well know, from this Friday those people who call the customer service of Naturgy will not be attended, on the other side of the phone there will be no one in Galicia and speak in Greek, but, instead of being on these platforms of Coruña and Ourense, will be answered from Reus and Colombia — where on both, together, there will be only two people speaking our language. The company has on many occasions recognized the quality of the work that these people provide, including the responsibility of the UK works committee, which suffered a very severe ERA in 2013; an ERA that was resolved before the planned effort and work. I also want to meet you here today and welcome you to this guest gallery. They accepted that ERTE, and even permits not paid during the summer. The company's response these months was a disruptive, malicious attitude and a relocation decision that puts 130 jobs at risk. It aims to save costs at reducing the quality of the service, and even at violating the rights of consumers seeking to protect themselves in a law outside the European Union that violates certain rules regarding data protection. We share from the PSdeG the view of the works committee that in this relocation, in this situation, there are three clear leaders, there are three clear culprits. First of all, Naturgy, a company that needs to remember that last year has had benefits of more than EUR 1,200 million, which exploits our natural resources but which, however, is raucous to save on staff costs and labour rights. U.N., who had a bad business strategy, unable to capture new customers. And, of course, you, Mr. Feijóo's government, and you're in charge of industry. Look, we warned this situation in April. We brought up a question here to be interested in this subject. The company committee is alerting you for months of this situation without you doing anything. Your indifference, Counselor, is a more lazy form of this government, of its exhaustion. The loss of these 130 jobs would be a tough stick for a province and for a region — the Ourense — that has a socio-economic situation that puts the hairs of the tip. Since 1980 we have lost 120,000 inhabitants, and the 32 counties with the lowest ratio of Galician pensioners are from Ourense, which has the lowest rate of activity in the whole of Spain. Your government, what are you planning to do, Counselor? And thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u437	Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanco. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u438	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Blanco, I would only ask you to be a little cautious, and certainly collaborate with the Government in situations of difficulty and not try to be a judge and therefore simply come to this House to identify guilty. Surely you should have more information, be more prudent in your expressions, and surely, with a change of attitude on your part, both the workers and the workers of the United States — today GSS as you well know — could have some sort of expectations and different realities. Surely, if you had changed your attitude, we could move on in many ways. In the face of the situation in the United States, he knows perfectly well that since the first moment the Union of Galicia has reacted and been in contact with all parties; of course with the Committee of Enterprise, of course with the United States company itself, of course as well as with Naturgy. And they've identified all possible alternatives. As you know, there's a new company, GSS, which has bought UK and is moving its predisposition to stay in Ourense and therefore its predisposition to keep jobs. In any case, we will continue to work and we will continue to identify those opportunities and all means to address the future, both of GSS and at the moment, as well as the future of the telemarketing sector. Because there is a commitment on the part of the Galician Union to improve the situation in the sector, and in that sense we will continue to work. We are aware that it is necessary to promote its diversification, its formation, and also to work on the issue of risk prevention, social responsibility; ultimately, a situation in which the Government is involved. We are addressing the study we are committed to in this Parliament on the situation and prospects for ensuring the viability of employment. But what I would ask you in this House is that you don't play with the workers and the workers of San Cibrao simply trying to assign to Galicia's board the faculty — Mrs. Blanco, I think you should hear this very concretely — to authorize or terminate files, contracts and aids. I hope you don't intend to transfer that faculty to Galicia because you know you don't have it. If I told you that I could collaborate precisely to better regulate the protection of data from citizenship, which knows that I am a state competence and that it is not a competence of the Galician Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u439	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u440	And, therefore, surely, if we had help and collaboration, we'd all go to Galicia much better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u441	Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u442	Thank you, President. Counselor, I'm not a judge, but you're a part. Of course she takes part in Naturgy with her answer, it's very clear. His only strategy from April, April to November -- there's a conciliator in San Cibrao who's more concerned than the counselor tells him about the jobs of his county and county, so I'd ask him, I'd ask him to let me finish -- is to be watching them come. Counsellor, responsibility for industry, for now, despite the vote in the last elections in this autonomous community, it belongs to your Government. And you have to start once and for all demanding Naturgy to stop this relocation of jobs that you are doing not only in Ourense but through TelePerformance, also in the city of Coruña. This is not, therefore, an isolated fact. If you want to set an example, instead of coming here with "counsels seeing that I don't have," you start to encourage tenders where data protection, quality and proximity to the service are guaranteed to an economic environment for our autonomous community. That's what you can do, because I see that we have a government that is absolutely exhausted and has no ideas, and that, when we ask you about a grave situation and the loss of 130 jobs, all you do is look elsewhere, Counsellor. So, please get to work, because if you continue, in fact, the San Cibrao polygon and the technology park — which you also use to make a lot of ads — to continue in this way, for the only thing you're going to serve is for parking, as parking, and for car practice, Mr Counsellor. Because our province and our city are getting completely deserted of activity, and I said it in my first intervention. She therefore demands that the attention be given to the quality of the Greek consumers in our language; and, of course, to the maintenance of these jobs. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u443	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. For the Government's reply, Mr. Conde López has the floor of the Councillor for Economics, Employment and Industry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u444	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Blanco, I hope you're in favour of extending the San Cibrao polygon, because it seems that in your intervention you're not very convinced, nor does it seem that you want to support such actions by the Government. Look, this government has been working and supporting GSS workers ever since. The company committee knows it, the workers themselves know it. We're also working and favoring the development of the telemarketing sector; and therefore we'll be at all times on a situation of enormous difficulty, it's true. But what I ask of you is two very simple things derived from your intervention. First of all, I would ask you not to give the Greek Administration decisions that do not correspond to you, because logically each of us has our powers. But, in terms of labour law, data protection and market competition legislation, competition is the State. In all these issues, to which you mentioned in your speech, the powers are state and, therefore, I would ask you not to entitle the Council of Galicia to be able to regulate from the point of view of work, data protection and market competition in the field of telemarketing. Second, I'd ask him not to demand that the Greek administration not comply with the law. It would be good, it would be good if you at Galicia's board had asked him precisely that, not to comply with the law. So you know that, firstly, we cannot ignore the rights of companies; and secondly, you know that we cannot mix — Mrs. Blanco — or act aside from the rules that are laid down. Unless you understand that the Galician Union must not comply with the regulations. What I can tell you is that the Galician Union has transferred to Naturgy its inconformity with the performance it is leading in this matter. And what we logically expect from a company like Naturgy is that it doesn't dilute its galeguity, that it always had when it was Fenosa Union, and so we moved it to it. From there on, what I ask you to do is not to transfer you to the administration that acts by failing to comply with any kind of regulations and thus mixing matters that do not correspond to you, because that, Mrs. Blanco, is classified in the Criminal Code. In any case, we will continue to work — I insist — alongside GSS workers and working for a future for these professionals, not only this company but the whole sector in Galicia, which we are logically pushing and we will continue to support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u445	Thank you, Counselor. We're still on the agenda. Question by Mr Moisés Rodríguez Pérez and six other Members of the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, about the actions being carried out in Galicia to accompany the German automotive sector in consolidating its growth over the past few years and responding to the future scenario
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u446	To put the question, Mr. Rodríguez Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u447	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Counselor. Mr. Conde, this issue that this parliamentary group is going to ask is a matter of great interest to our autonomous community, and it is very important, of vital importance, to thousands of families that depend on such an important sector as that of driving in Galicia. The question, therefore, is urgent and current, and that is why this parliamentary group wants to know first-hand the position of the Galician Union in the historic merger agreement between PSA and Fiat Chrysler to form the fourth worldwide automotive group. Information that we have recently known and decided that may present new opportunities for the Balados factory and, by extension, for the whole of the Galician auxiliary industry, as we are an international benchmark of competitiveness thanks to its commitment to innovation, the smart factory and the constant training of staff paintings. Speaking of the Balados factory, the announcements made from the central government — forever in function — present different changes of opinion: in the morning yes, in the afternoon no and in the night depends. And members of the opposition in Galicia are complicit in this situation. There are demonstrations, such as that of the Minister Teresa Ribera, that the Diesel has the days counted, after it is said that until 2040, then, in June, it will resume with greater diligence the rise of the Diesel, and then — to finish it — the same president in office saying that he will ban it in 2040. Sounds like a joke, but it's not. That's called creating distrust. Socialists and their partners are experts in generating instability, with measures such as "diesel", the delay in the application of the Welsh industrial agenda, announced by the Ministry of Industry, and the postponement of the planned investment for the new Vigo substation that would provide service to PSA. Unbelievable, ladies! But thanks to the stability of Galicia, the Welsh automotive industry is a reference; thanks to the shared work of the PSA group, the cluster workers, the Technology Center and the Galician Union. The best example, ladies and gentlemen, is the two new models K9 and V20, which guarantee workload for Vigo and all its surroundings over the next decade — thanks to the serious governments such as the Galician Union and its permanent bet on this sector. It is 22,300 direct jobs, representing 13% of GDP. For all this, we wanted to know what the Galician Union is doing to accompany the Welsh automotive sector in consolidating its growth over the past few years, and to respond to this scenario of the future. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u448	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Pérez. To answer, you have the word of the Economic Counsellor, Mr. Count López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u449	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Rodríguez, in fact, is committed to the development of a strategic sector in Galicia, such as the automotive sector, the presence of PSA and, above all, the presence of more than 130 companies that make up an innovative, competitive industrial fabric that allows us today in Galicia to manufacture one of six vehicles from Spain. It's 13% of industrial employment, 13% of our gross domestic product, a billing of EUR 8.650 million; finally, a sector that is currently generating more than 22,000 jobs and which is one of the references from an industrial point of view. And in that context there is the operation between PSA and Fiat, which can convert the group into the fourth world manufacturer. Therefore, as an operation of these characteristics is full of opportunities but also of risks, there is a co-responsibility on the part of PSA and on the part of the sector to develop all initiatives that allow opportunities to be exploited and minimized risks. And for that necessarily what we have to do is urgently address all the needs that the automotive industry currently has, not only by supporting investments in the EID of the smart factory, through the joint research units, and by developing and supporting the training program for the sector — which is benefiting more than 4,000 unemployed and workers, with an investment of about 9 million euros — also developing that Accelerator of entrepreneurial projects, the Business Factory Auto, which is allowing to complement the value chain around the Galician automobile, but rather — as you well said — we also have to address other important needs to minimize those risks. And there we met with the urgency of building this new substation to meet PSA's electrical demand and connecting Vigo to the 220 kilovolts network. It is a commitment by the Government that is failing, to which unfortunately no answers are being given. They are generating expectations from the Socialist Party here in Galicia, but the reality is that neither the Government nor the Socialist Party in Galicia are able to respond to this commitment undertaken by the Government of Mariano Rajoy to build that new station. It's an investment that would save not only EUR 1 million in the cost of electricity in the Balados factory, but also a higher quality in electricity supply for all Vigo. So it's a necessary infrastructure that, in some way, we all have to push. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u450	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Rodríguez Pérez speaks for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u451	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, Counselor. Hope is the last thing you lose, but Spain's political situation in the short term doesn't seem to improve. If we were worried before, now more with the ultra-left pacts. Fear gives the caste now! Unfortunately, there is failure to comply with the important investments for the Welsh industry, serious breaches of an industrial agenda, the serious failure of the new substation of Balaidos, without deadlines; finally, multiple central government failures with Galicia, with the Galician companies and, ultimately, with all of us. After what we've heard about this, in debates, PNL, committees, plenary, one thing is clear: there are groups that put Galicia above everything else, others put the party before Galicia. Socialists put the party first. We are all aware of the importance for Galicia in the automotive sector. In the electoral programme with which the People's Party won the elections it was clear and defined the commitment to adapt training to the needs of the labour market and to the demands of the emerging sectors and industry 4.0. In addition, this sector has a strategic character for the whole of Galician society. He already employs more than 22,300 people. And we're facing a highly internationalized, competitive industry, where all countries are investing a lot of money in technology, innovation and, above all, in training their workers. Thank you, Counselor, for making the data so clear. Galicia has stable employment, quality employment. In Galicia we have a clear and determined policy. Galicia is a land of opportunity, and the automotive sector, ladies and gentlemen, has a future, with illusion and hope. Thanks to the support of the Galician Union, we can look forward to the future of the automotive sector. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u452	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez. For the Government's reply, Mr. Conde López has the floor of the Councillor for Economics, Employment and Industry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u453	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Rodríguez, in fact, we have to continue working in the automotive sector, we have an important moment within the cycle in which the PSA factory is currently running, with the development of two new models — the PSA van, also the new model 2008, and the very project of the construction of the Toyota van; ultimately, a reality that is allowing the German automotive industry to be in the van from the point of view of production and from the development point of view of the intelligent factory. But that future today is summed up in four words: we have to keep pushing the shared car, the connected car, the autonomous car and the electric car. There are four vectors that necessarily require that we continue to promote training in the sector, that we continue to promote innovation within PSA and also within component industries, and of course a greener Galicia, because we must also work on that sustainable mobility. That's why next year we'll work and promote specific resources to continue to support the motor vehicle pole in Vigo. Firstly, we will focus our attention on energy efficiency and climate change precisely by supporting R & D investments to develop new technologies related to the 100 per cent electric vehicle, a clear bet of the PSA group, which will be supported by the Galician Union, which will allow us to electrify the K9 van and place us again as a global referent, as we are already, in the autonomous vehicle; a bet decided to carry out a fair and orderly energy transition in Galicia and therefore to support the development of the sector. Also within the driving line we will continue to support the efficient mobility program and thus promote the development of the sector by boosting the renewal of vehicles in Galicia. Finally, a commitment to the production model, a commitment in which we are working together with the Motor Technology Centre, the CTAG, also with the Galego Cluster of Automotion, with CEAGA, and, of course, with the PSA Group and with the public and private agents who are willing to support the development of this sector, encourage innovation and therefore place us as a reference in both the autonomous car and the electric car. That's the shared challenge we have between the Administration and the sector, and we'll follow, as I said, by pushing this automobile pole in Vigo, the automotive pole in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u454	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by da Cristina Isabel Romero Fernández and six other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the assessment of the Government of Galicia regarding the tourist evolution in Galicia throughout 2019
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u455	To put the question you have the word to Mrs. Romero Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u456	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Exactly nine months ago you appeared in the plenary to account for the work being done on tourism, a strategic activity not only for our economy, but also for our society, which year after year is providing historical record data on all parameters, providing positive results in both wealth creation and job creation, as well as in the creation of new companies that contribute to increasing tax collection. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't think you can hear me. Is that better? [[Mrs. Romero Fernández changes the microphone from position to try to improve the hearing of her voice in the room.]] Well, that's better. [[Murmurs.]] He said it brings very positive results to tourism in Galicia, which is helping to create more wealth, helping to create more jobs and new companies that are increasing tax collection, which is ultimately the livelihood and food of the welfare state. The tourism sector has been expanding since President Feijóo arrived in the Government, because since his governments, tourism has become an activity exclusively of the summer—a subject pending development in Galicia—to become a source of profitability for Galicia throughout the year. This is not by chance, Counselor. Over all these years she has been working with clear roadmaps, shaped by the different tourism strategies, which leave a very positive balance; it's hard to imagine at the beginning of the decade, because we've seen a period marked by the absence of holy years that traditionally marked the pace of tourism activity in Galicia. In his March appearance, he presented us with a balance of the tourism evolution of 2018, the second best tourist year in our history, which consolidated the extraordinary figures of the last lustro, both from a quantitative perspective — each time Galicia attracts more people — and from a qualitative perspective, those that year after year turn Galicia into a more competitive, more sustainable and of greater quality. Today, Counsellor, a year has passed since you assumed the responsibilities of tourism, already finished the summer season and the already known September data, you must make an assessment not only of this summer season already finished, but of the tourist behavior of our community throughout the year and even of the comparison of tourism behavior with the rest of the state and other autonomous communities. That's why we asked him and asked him to come here to make an assessment of the balance of tourism activity this year.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u457	Thank you very much, Mrs. Romero. The Councillor for Culture and Tourism, Mr. Rodríguez González, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u458	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Mrs. Romero. The truth is that Galicia can be satisfied with the dynamics and tourist evolution of this year. I think this year is leaving very good news and I would like to highlight three areas. The first is that, in the main parameters, both quantity and quality, we are drawing a positive path, a path of growth; secondly, I would also like to highlight that one of the major lines of action and the strategies that are proposed in the tourist model, the destabilization, is being achieved — increasing the distancing — and also progressively increasing the territorial decentralization of tourism activity by the whole of the Greek geography. We're already finishing the year, we've already got official data for the first nine months of the year, and the truth is that the data is very positive. In this time, until October 1st, we have 4.1 million passengers, which gives us over 9 million nights. The latter is the data which is the highest figure in the historical series of Galician history. We have a comparative growth with the rest of Spain tremendously superior. In Galicia, tourism demand increased by 6.5 points, while Spain grew by just 0.6%. From following this trend, from following this dynamic, we can say that at the end of the year we will exceed 5 million tourists, or we will be around 5 million tourists, which will be the highest figure along with the year 2017. And if we say that quantitatively the variables are positive, more so I want to put them on qualitatively. And I think in recent months we're also on tremendously important qualitative data. It grows the average stay of the traveller, of the tourist. We have the most important average stay in the last seven years. Better hotel rates, improved in 2019 hotel rates two percentage points. It has improved the profitability of hotel businesses by 6%, with the highest to the present day of the present decade. They improved income in a very substantial way; in fact, they grew to 8.3% this year. They're invoicing more than 250 million euros. And we're, finally, Your Honor, very positive data. In the first half of this year, as far as destabilization is concerned, we have the best data from the Spanish set, Galicia has the best data from the Spanish set. And also in the summer we reached the best billing data that Galicia has ever had in its history, above 100 million euros only in hotel activity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u459	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u460	Finally, we are faced with a tremendously positive dynamic that is set on the three major axes: decentralization, destabilization and sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u461	Thank you very much. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u462	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u463	Mrs. Romero Fernández has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u464	Thank you, Counselor, for your answer. Obviously, the figures offered by tourism in Galicia are once again extraordinary, look where you look. From a quantitative point of view, there's the record to reach 9 million overnights in one year, which we've never reached, and they're already out of a quarter to finish the year; there's the weight that international tourism earns, because 24% of tourists approaching Galicia come from outside Spain, and we all know it's a tourism that spends more money and it's more time. Demand grows in all types of tourist accommodation, and in tourism's behavior with respect to tourism in the rest of the state you have just said the great difference that there is: we grow, and in the rest of the state, with eminently much more touristic areas, are stable. From a qualitative point of view, tourists increase their average stay by almost 1%, reaching the highest stages of the last seven years. These tourists, apart from spending more time in Galicia, are also spending more money, and in a context of rising hotel rates, which leads us to the best ratios and the best levels of profitability in the decade. If we're already talking about disstationalization and diversification of tourist flows, no one can question it, as we've often heard about matters that are being debated in this House about which disstationalization is very light. Well, I think it's shown today that we're going in the right direction on these issues. More and more tourists are coming to Galicia, and throughout the year; they spend more and more money...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u465	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u466	...and they come closer to the different territories.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u467	Thank you very much, Mrs. Romero. The Minister of Culture and Tourism, Mr. Rodríguez González, has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u468	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, Mrs. Romero, I agree with what you propose. That is to say, we are moving forward in the main parameters, both quality and quantity, in good figures, in good data, and under clear principles: the principle of destabilization, which makes it possible to have a higher quality and with greater job stability — we are talking about around 110,000 workers associated with tourism — and also from the point of view of decentralization, as the momentum of tourism activity and the positive effects on the economic activity and employment as a whole of the territory, taking into account the great resources that Galicia keeps in its whole territory; and, finally, also in a sustainable way, that is, without generating any harmful risks or actions, which is also something to be controlled. We obviously have very good data, we have very good results. And here at the end, there's no chance of anything. We must thank the tourism sector as a whole, which is a highly diversified, highly professional sector, increasingly trained and increasingly involved, but also the actions that are being promoted, in a line of strategic cooperation with the private sector, by the Public Service. From the very first moment we wanted to bet on distancing tourism. In fact, last week we presented a project, which is the "Elixe Galicia" project, to encourage indoor tourism in a decentralized way in the territory and unseasonated in time, outside the central months of summer, which enables the Greeks to meet Galicia and make indoor tourism in Galicia, which is a very important percentage. We also want to destabilize it by promoting a project that we present this week, which is the project linked to congress tourism. We are going to develop 200 actions in Galicia to enhance the tourism of congresses, university events, academic events, linked to companies, etc., in 2020 and 2021, a policy of boosting these actions that generate a tourism of great quality and enormous expenditure. We're talking about an average of around 250 euros a day. And we're betting on decentralization, and maybe the best example is the dynamics that Santiago's Way is experiencing. Santiago's Way is growing exponentially on the eve of the holy year. We're already doing, in 336,000 pilgrims -- today -- who get the "Compostela," and it's a tremendously higher number of pilgrims than those who receive the "Compostela" -- we're talking about 336,000 when last year we end up with 300, little twenty thousand. I mean, every year we're going too far. And we're doing it decentralizing all the routes, with an increasingly international character. About 60 percent of the pilgrims are foreigners and arrive outside the station, and that makes it possible to generate a very positive dynamic. And we're working on improving routes, both infrastructure and equipment, services and promotion, and that translates into cooperative action between the private sector...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u469	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u470	...and also the Administration. And in the end, as it happens...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u471	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u472	...the best indicator is the data, the results, and fortunately Galicia can assume to have good data in the tourist dynamics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u473	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and Da Maria de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda, from G.P. Group of the Left, on the forecasts of the Government of Greece relating to the guarantee of public management of the future care centre for people with functional diversity in Ourense
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u474	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Cuña Bóveda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u475	Good afternoon, Counselor. Again we came here to talk about the CAPD of Ourense. This demand has three levels: a social level, a political level and a legal level. At the legal level we have a framework, a clear framework, a very well-established framework, an inclusion framework. The UN Convention for Persons with Disabilities, signed in 2008 by the Spanish State, also implies and is to be complied with by the autonomous communities. At the political and social level, we are talking about commitments. Year 2016, September 19, important date. In the full campaign of the four women's self-elections, four Members who are here, by the Socialist Party, by the Nationalist Bloc Party and myself and by the People's Party, Mrs. Cristina Romero Fernández, we signed a commitment that stated -- not a tacit commitment, signature -- that the attention center of people with functional diversity in Ourense would have a public management and assistance from employees also public employees. What was this: a real commitment or an electoral lie from the PP? His predecessor in the office, the gentleman who just arrived, King Varela, had several meetings with the people of the CAPD. The first meeting was fruitless, in the second it acquired a commitment to the families of the platform saying that, indeed, this centre would be of public management. Real commitment or lie? The platform, while, made several actions, actions the same historical one, a demonstration that reached the greatest square in Ourense, where we attended almost all of them; there were people from the PP as well. They collected more than 50,000 signatures in support of the creation of an equal status centre than the rest of the province of Greece. In 2018 the Union and the local government announced that it would be open by 2020. Lies or false commitments. In July 2019 you yourself apologized for the delay, excuses that were accepted, but you also assured — third commitment — the service of the best quality. We assume that he was referring to public service, since we know that private people are losing quality. Mr Rueda also said on September 19th — three years — they met us happily and blowing candles — that he has already authorized the contract of contract. But nothing said of whether management would be public. And five days ago, Mr. President went to a rally at the Sevilla Expourense estate, there were the families, the children and the children, the president told them without looking at...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u476	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u477	...the diverse children: first we will build, then we will talk, with no commitment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u478	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u479	...an absolute indignity. Tell us the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u480	Thank you very much. You've got another shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u481	Are you going to be a public manager?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u482	Thank you very much. Mrs. García Martínez has the floor of the Social Policy Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u483	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. Mrs. Cuña, I thank you for your interest in the attention of people with disabilities and the interest in the establishment of this centre that would enable you to care for 110 Orennese families, through the creation of 80 residential squares and 30 downtown squares by day. It is also important to remember and remember that we are talking about a project that is currently being tendered, whose works will begin at the first quarter of the year 2020. And those who have the responsibility to manage know that it is very important to follow strictly all the administrative deadlines set and that every thing is done in due course. At this point, we are, as the president said, fully focused on building this building, and when the building is finished, it will be time to address the most specific details of its management. Mrs. Cuña, I repeat to you what I said yesterday in this Parliament in Galicia: a center that offers 100% of the public squares, where people pay according to their incomes by applying a public price table, a center that is accessed by a system of public lists and following public criteria and that public quality standards are guaranteed is a public center, put themselves as they are put. And also reading the press over the past few weeks, I have the feeling that families are being confused about false information or interested information, because it is assured that the center will have its own kitchen, which is something necessary to elaborate the individualized menus that need a care center for people with disabilities; it is also assured that the centre will have at least the same services as the other disability care centers in Galicia; and it is assured that the centre will meet all the stricter requirements in the field of staff. And if we can say that this administration is working as fast as possible in its functioning position to turn it into the first public center of attention to people with Ourense disabilities and, I insist, a public center with 100% public squares. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u484	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Cuña Bóveda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u485	Counsellor, yesterday you said you were very intolerant to the lie, today you seem to have changed, and explain that you understand for quality parameters. We are talking about classes, workshops, physiotherapy, multisensory stimulation needs, occupational therapy, nursing, psychology, multidisciplinary team. The question is: Will management be public? They don't go out by the hills of Ubeda. You're giving a decent and unfair answer. They're failing their engagements. Who's confusing the opinion is you. We don't talk about alms, we don't even talk about principle of inclusion — that if you fill your mouth with that — we speak of an internationally recognized and binding right. Besides, we're also talking about public money, not private business, which is what they're wearing and what they're trying to do: privatizing this service. If not, why don't they say, clearly and openly, clearly and openly... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u486	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u487	...that management will be public, as it has committed? So, what's the matter? Ourense is a second-century city? What's wrong? Does the signed commitments lead to the wind? There is one Member who has made a written commitment, the opposition Members are maintaining the commitment, you are cheating, filling up the families, lying, of course. Public service, yes; private business, no. And much less than it's not a family issue, it's a social and political issue, about paying attention to a right to diversity. Of course I'm in love, of course I am. They meet the demands of the platform. It's a residential and therapeutic center. Enough, enough deceits, lies, false attitudes and syslins. Give us reasons to believe in addition, and give them to the platform too, which has just been said: that will be reality in 2021...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u488	Finish, please. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u489	...five years after the engagement.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u490	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cuña. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u491	What a shame!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u492	For the Government's reply — silence! — Mrs García Martínez has the floor. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u493	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Cuña, I accept here in this parliament all the criticisms and I take on things that have not been done well as regards the CAPD of Ourense. I assume that this center has lasted longer than we would like, and that's why I once again apologize, but what I'm not going to admit or tolerate is that if families are still missing the truth with things that have absolutely nothing to do with reality. I will not accept it, Mr. Cuña, because the Council of Galicia always wanted to be next to the families and always wanted to work with the families in defining the CAPD of Ourense, and that's why it happened to predict its location from Marinemansa to the Baroque neighborhood and that's why the number of squares originally planned to be raised to 110. [[Applause]] And if families continue to have doubts, of course we will clarify them, as we have always come to do, but what I ask them is that families do not give unlimited credibility to those who are more concerned about taking vows than to get the best disability center in Ourense province. [[Applause]] The other day I read in the press: can you assure us that there will be physical therapists in the CAPD — as you said today — speech therapists, therapy classes, workshops or doctors? My answer is yes, I give them my word that it will be. And the center will end... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u494	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u495	...his construction...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u496	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u497	...at the beginning of the next legislation, and it will be the next Government of Galicia that defines the details of its management. But today I'm going to go further, today at parliamentary headquarters I commit myself to something else. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u498	Silence! Mrs. Cuña, please, when you spoke, you were listening. Silence! [[Madam Cuña Bóveda utters words that are not perceived.]] No, no, I was listening to everyone. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u499	I said today I'm going to go further and I'm going to commit myself to something very important and something else. As far as I'm concerned, I give you my word that the future CAPD of Ourense is not managed in any case by a profit-oriented private company. Nothing else and thank you very much. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u500	Let's move on to the next question. The 7.9, by Maria Luisa Pierres, was removed from the group, and we moved on to the next. This always happens in the last questions of every plenary, that people want when a question is missing or two to want to follow the full. [[Murmurs.]] Silence! We turn to the next question, if you want, or if you don't, we can continue another debate. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's get to the question... silence, please. Quiet. Quiet, quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Cuña, please. Peace, silence. Quiet. Mrs. Cuña, please, be quiet. Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm asking everyone to be quiet. Okay. All of us. And I've already given two names of all the stands. If they want, we start calling the order. Let's go with the last question from the plenary. These things always seem to happen in the last few questions. [[Murmurs.]] Question by da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and da Luca Chao Pérez, from G.P. of the Left Joint Group on measures planned by the Galician Board to prevent new food poisoning cases similar to those in various stores in the Blue Chicken network
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u501	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u502	Good afternoon, Counselor, and I hope that today, yes, here, they do not come to lie, because the only ones who seek votes and who have publicly committed themselves to that title were you; now my companion has told you, and now in his reply he says something else quite different than what they have signed, and there's a lot of hemerotheque on this subject. So, I hope today that in the answer about the poisonings that happened in several schools dependent on their counseling, also in primary and secondary schools, if they speak clearly and do not commit themselves to doing things that are later false. These poisonings happened in centers that are also hundreds of miles away, from The Coruña to Cangas, something that seems very surprising to us, because we realize how food, food, was traveling a lot of kilometers. Because similar poisonings happened, as I say, in centers that were very scattered, three episodes that looked like in just over a month, and, in our view, the response they are giving from the board is totally insufficient. They don't make any assessment of why we're at this point, how we get to this situation. Our question is clear: how did they control until now, until this happened on three occasions, the catering? What did they do to prevent situations like these from being given and how many inspections have been carried out so far, because the number they gave publicly, in our opinion, is a rather ridiculous figure, taking into account the number of dining rooms in our country. They only put the measures when they jump these cases into the media and only when they don't have any more remedies. At first they said it was isolated cases. This is a lie, they're not isolated cases, they've been many children and girls, they're not few, I don't know what you understand in isolated cases, to me more than twenty don't seem like isolated cases. And on the causes we agree that, of course, there can be multiple. But, of course, his model favors questions like this, and I'm going to explain. The only basic criterion or criterion for granting school lunches is economic. This company stood out — and this is how we do not say it — because it is economically the cheapest. Most of the points given are because she was the cheapest economically. And our question is why something like this had to happen so that suddenly, if they decided to bet on the local economy and proximity, why in all these years they didn't decide to bet on the local economy and proximity and allowed a situation like this. It can't be that you're consuming food that travel hundreds and sometimes thousands of miles, when, in addition, we have a lot of local producers, that this would help to dynamize our territory. They've been betting on outsourcing for a long time, indirect management. We advocate that they be brought forward in a public manner, that they turn to the public. We think it's the best way to guarantee security.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u503	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u504	The question is clear:
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u505	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u506	...what responsibilities did you assume, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u507	Thank you very much. Mrs. García Martínez has the floor of the Social Policy Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u508	Thank you, President. Members and Members. Mrs. Quinteiro, I understand and thank you for your concern about mild allergic reactions that have taken place in some of the childhood schools. And believe me when I tell you all to share your concern about a question that is absolutely intolerable and absolutely unacceptable. First of all, we want to convey peace and trust to all families so that they know that the Greek Government is already acting so that such situations do not happen again. And so last week, we made the decision to decentralize the supply of raw materials as an interim measure while health counsellor technicians did not identify the origin of the reaction. This measure was applied both to children's schools where there were some episodes or other. The Health Council, the Social Policy Council and the Galego Consortium of Services of Equality and Welfare are in direct and constant contact to resolve this issue that concerns many families in Galicia and also the Government of Galicia. Although the facts have not been at all of gravity, I repeat: we cannot tolerate that something like this happens, lasts ten minutes or lasts thirty minutes. There can be no allergic reactions in children's schools, and point. Logically, the remedy cannot be worse than the disease, and therefore the company has also committed itself to all proximity supplies meeting the health requirements and traceability requirements. And I would like to say two things to the families of Galicia: the first one, to ask them once again, of course, to apologize for everything that has happened; the second one, which we are waiting for, until the specialists have perfectly identified the cause of these unfortunate episodes, so that it will all return to normality. The menus that are being served these weeks are designed with a central objective of minimizing the risk of a new allergic reaction. And, once again, we want to ensure that we get to the end of the matter, because its tranquility and that of its little ones is all we care about. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u509	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u510	The problem, Counselor, is that they transmit peace now; when that happened, they didn't even get in touch; many parents and mothers learned about it by other parents, by other mothers, or by the media; that's right. The Administration later informed us, when they decided to take a propaganda measure, not at first, that they did not warn, and now, Counselor, the truth is that their answer leaves us much more restless than we were before asking him. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Investigations. In this parliament, hundreds of times have committed themselves to doing research on issues that are sometimes much more serious, which you never know what they end up in. They never fully account for the research they do, absolutely never do. And I wonder why he didn't say anything, if they're going to punish this company somehow. What measures will be taken in the medium term so that this will not happen again? He said the proximity product was an urgent measure. Well, Counsellor, now is the time for you to bet on the proximity trade. In this same parliament, in the Committee on Agriculture in 2017, you also approved the People's Party, an initiative by this group to promote products of proximity and locals in school dining rooms, of course, here, as many things are approved that are later forgotten, but that has been approved by you, they have committed themselves to taking this matter forward. They didn't do anything at all. And frankly, as much as the reaction wasn't in serious medical terms, the situation is very serious. Or don't you think it's serious that there were all these poisonings in just a few weeks at so many centers in our school? Honestly, it doesn't seem to us to care about this fact. If he doesn't care when he says it's not a serious situation. The situation is serious, although medical reactions were not serious. And then, as I say, they don't clarify whether they're going to make any sanctions, whether they're going to do some kind of control, and above all whether they're going to change the school dining model, which is the fundamental problem. Will they continue to bet on the solely economic criterion for food subsidies? Because it's what they do, eaters with very little resources...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u511	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quinteiro. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u512	...and so, obviously, service cannot be of quality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u513	Thank you very much. For the Government's reply, you have the floor of the Social Policy Counsellor, Mrs. García Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u514	Thank you, President. Mrs. Quinteiro, I am not going to urge you to say that the German Government is as important to something as what has happened, and I said it earlier in my first intervention. Because I am a mother, and I fully understand and share the concern that these families have experienced in the last few weeks; I share that concern, Mrs. Quinteiro, because I put myself in the skin of all those mothers and parents who want to know what happened and I also want to know and tell you the truth. Because I want to get there too, they want to get these parents and kids to school in the mornings, leave their children and go to their homes or their work with all guarantees. And I repeat once again that this issue is absolutely intolerable, it is absolutely unacceptable, and, of course, I do not want anything like that to happen again. But I also insist that it is necessary to go step by step and not make hasty decisions in an area that is as delicate and sensitive as the feeding of our children. Because the kitchen of a public childhood school is not as you say, it's not like a home, it's not like that of our houses, because we have to follow procedures that are very strict with all the food that is given there, that is bought there and that is used there; some standards that exist, precisely, to ensure always the highest quality and safety of all the food that takes our little ones. The situation that has been in the last few weeks concerns me and disgusts me more than anyone, and the company that manages these kitchens from the affected infant schools has been working for the Union for many years, about eleven years, also when others ruled, and until today there has never been another incidence. But actually, I believe in the great work they do all and every one of the people who are working in a childhood school, both in education and in management, in cleaning and cooking. And I can assure you that in every child school in the autonomous public network, children and children are in the best hands and with the best attention. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-13-DSPG135.u515	Thank you very much, Counselor. Then the agenda items are finished, the session is closed. Good afternoon.
