ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u1	Good morning. Let's start the session. First I want to justify the inattentiveness of this plenary session of two Members; in this case, by Mrs. Maria Concepción Burgo López and Mrs. Maria Guadalupe Murillo Solís. Election of two members of the Social Council of the University of Santiago de Compostela
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u2	And as a first point — as I said — the election of two members of the Social Council of the University of Santiago de Compostela. All this, in accordance with the Bureau and Resolution of the Presidency of 17 September and 17 October 2019, respectively, which took note of the two vacancies of the Social Council of the University of Santiago de Compostela, in particular by Mr. Gerardo Estévez Fernández and Mr. Juan Luis Castro Rodríguez, all this for renunciation, which were elected by this House at the plenary session of 28 June 2016, corresponding to the IX legislation, by proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, respectively. In accordance with Article 79 of Law 6/2013 of 13 June of the Galician university system, two vacancies are covered. Subsequently, the Bureau, by agreement of 15 October 2019, after the hearing of the Speaker's Board, agreed to open a deadline for the formalization of nominations. After the deadline, the Bureau, at its meeting on 21 October 2019, took note of the proposals made by the Socialist and Popular parliamentary groups that it communicated to the parliamentary groups. The election, in accordance with Article 91 1.2 and (2) of the Galician Parliament's Rules of Procedure, shall be secretive, by means of an alphabetic form and call. The vote shall be taken by inserting into the ballot box the paper previously delivered by the services of the House, which lists the names of the candidate and the candidate proposed, marking the boxes with a stamp. Empty votes are considered not to mark a box, and null votes are considered to have been written when names of other persons or other signs have been written. When the election is done, we will proclaim the candidate elected and the candidate gets the simple majority. For the vote, please proceed with the distribution of papers. [[Pause.]] No one's got the paper? They're all in the paperwork. So we started the vote. To that end, I pray the vice president first and the second vice president who are located where the ballot box is collected. The secretary lady may begin calling her lordships.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u3	Thank you, President. [[The Secretary-General, Arias Rodríguez, is calling, in alphabetical order, Members and Members, who put their vote in the ballot box; then the members of the Government and finally the members of the Bureau.]] That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u4	Thank you. I think they all voted. Let's go to the count.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u5	We already have the scrutiny, which offers the following result. Votes in favour of D. Ramón Medina González-Redondo, 49; votes in favour of Da Rosa Blanca Rodríguez Gutiérrez, 50; votes in favour, 19. The majority, therefore, are elected members of the Social Council of the University of Santiago de Compostela D. Ramón Medina González-Redondo and Da Rosa Blanca Rodríguez Gutiérrez. Congratulations, both of you. You have now finished this vote. You can open the doors, please. We're still on the agenda. Annual Report of the People's Valedor for 2018
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u6	In accordance with Rule 3a, which regulates relations between Parliament and the People's Valedor, adopted by the Bureau on 28 May 1991, the debate of the plenary of the annual report will be adjusted to the following procedure. The People's Valor will present a summary of the report before the Committee on Petitions on 10 October 2019. At the end of this session, the sitting room will be abandoned and Members will begin their deliberations. In accordance with the order of action provided for in Article 80.1 of the Rules of Procedure, representatives of each parliamentary group may intervene for a maximum of ten minutes each to determine their position on the report submitted. As a result of this debate, no motions for resolutions can be tabled, given their information, without prejudice to subsequent regulatory initiatives. For this, we proceed with the intervention of the people's valet. I pray to the vice president first to accompany the brave lady of the people to the rostrum of speakers for her intervention. [[Pause.]] Thank you. You have the word of the people's valet, Mrs. Maria Dolores Fernández Galliño.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u7	President of the Galician Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, on 2 August I took possession of the position of the people's valet after receiving the confidence of this Parliament. In the two and a half months that passed, I was able to exercise the responsibility that gives the dimension of the institution. The fundamental focus of the institution is the defense of human rights in a society that evolves at a rapid and constant rate. Human rights integrate a constitutional basis of shared values. The one who fights for his rights is fighting for the rights and justice of all. The team that was set up since August, without a continuity solution, proceeded to the processing of complaints from the Greek citizenship. At the same time, a transformation process has been initiated that has already materialized in some concrete actions. In the memory of the year 2019, essential changes will be needed and realized, given that this memory will be a transitional memory, as soon as the new equipment has been configured throughout the already advanced second half of 2019. I need this because if the memory of 2019 is going to be a transitional memory, the memory of 2018 is a memory that corresponds to an institution's past for obvious reasons. Given this, I'm going to expose the data from that memory by needing this institution, rather than processing files, solve or try to solve citizens' problems. In 2018, 24,771 people asked for assistance or advice. Of these, 1,025 received face-to-face attention; 1,939 received telephone attention. A total of 20,807 complaints have been filed. 336 complaints were rejected, mainly because of not initiating previous administrative action, 119; a very low percentage in line with the criterion of favoring access to the institution that inspires the activity of Valdoria. A total of 51 complaints were referred to other defences. Of the complaints submitted and admitted to the proceedings at the end of 2018, 15,336 complaints were concluded, and 5,084 were in process. In number of matters. In view of the fact that complaints are collective on some occasions, a total of 2,706 issues have been processed during 2018, which means a 15% increase over 2017 and is the highest figure since 2013. 43 complaints were also initiated on a variety of subjects. As for the distribution of the administrations affected by the complaints, 86.7% relate to the autonomous administration; 12.4% to the municipalities; and 0.1% to the universities. Most complaints are grouped into services that have the greatest field of action, the greatest coverage. This institution seeks to give agile and direct attention to those people who are sometimes left out of the necessary administrative bureaucracy. The right to health is a fundamental right, and together with freedom, they are a prerequisite for the other fundamental rights. Health has 446 issues, of which 189 are related to waiting lists. The lists are needed to organize demand with different levels of priority and available resources. Patients are organized at different levels of priority in view of the severity of their pathologies, the effectiveness and the opportunity of health care, and it is the patients who have a priority 3 who stay a while before they are given a certain date. On the other hand, it is not legally defined a period of care for patients who refuse the offer of the concerted centre. The trial of this Valdoria, the waiting times for patients on priority 3 list and those who refuse attention in a concerted centre must be reasonable. It is noted that a very high percentage of complaints about waiting times in health care are resolved successfully. Work has also been done on the relationships between users and health professionals. The Valdoria considers it essential that humanitarian care be exquisite. The requirement of the preceptive report to the Health Council, of the transfer to the worker concerned, contributes to the improvement of human relations. There were also complaints about delays in the processing of capital liability records. It is customary to receive the immediate commitment by the Administration to proceed with its resolution. Social services received 324 issues. He worked on the difficulties in transitioning from the education system to the dependency system for people with original disabilities. Families demand continuity in the centre as a factor of stability. We demand from the competent advisors to coordinate their functions so that a proper transition can take place, i.e. planned and unexpected. He worked in the case of sailors who provided services on Norwegian ships; in the electoral equality of persons with cognitive disabilities; in the addition of minimum pensioners returned from Venezuela; in the accessibility with regard to TVG programs, with translation into sign language; in the assessment of disability of the older ninety years, of minors or of persons with serious diseases; and also in the acquisition of housing for public promotion by people with cognitive disabilities. Education dealt with 232 issues, referred to such diverse issues as attention to special educational needs, student grouping or school dining. Access to inclusive education, on equal terms, should be guaranteed and reasonable adjustments should be made to individual needs, as well as to facilitate personalized and effective support measures. It worked in the case of ABAU of students with recognised disabilities or with special educational needs, recommending that the necessary measures be taken to ensure equal opportunities and non-discrimination, and that the rectors have the necessary qualifications and adequate knowledge of the special educational needs. Also in the separation or grouping decisions in the same classroom as the children born of multiple births. During 2018 a total of 135 resolutions were produced, of which 80.7% were accepted. It must be necessary that, on many occasions, with the sole opening of the investigation, the Administration corrects the cause of the complaint, finally taking into account the citizen's demand, so that the complaint is filed without a resolution or recommendation, Resolutions are not to be complied with nor does Valdoria have implementing powers. In most complaints, control of compliance with the Administration's commitments is made with the brokerage of those concerned, who, if they fail to meet the commitment, demand that the complaints be reopened to deal with this incident. This is most common, since most complaints refer to individualized situations. This is the case with far-reaching recommendations or where a change of approach has been promoted in the relevant public proceedings. In these cases, an official follow-up is needed on the outcome of the recommendation. In the event that compliance times are considered to be exceeding reasonable times, you can reopen the complaint or initiate a new act of office on non-compliance. This was done, for example, in the case of the late development of the inclusion of the Greek Law. The Autonomy Statute states that Galicia's own language is Greek. This institution works intensively in the defense of the Greek. In relation to unofficial opponions, we urge this institution to correct it. Complaints have also been filed regarding the failure to comply with the rules of the Greek by certain municipalities, and on occasion we have intervened with companies or private entities on which we do not have supervisory powers. Finally, I shall refer to the functions assigned by the Transparency and Good Government Act to the People's Valedor, creating for the purpose the Transparency Commission as a collective body. The Transparency Commission has processed 148 resources, reflecting an increase in respect of those processed in 2016, which were 55, and in respect of those processed in 2017, which were 132. The increase in these resources, possibly, is for the best knowledge of the right of access to public information by citizenship, which, on the other hand, reflects the importance of the dissemination of the action of this institution. The resolution criteria of the Transparency Commission are informed by the principle of increasing the culture of transparency. Synthetically you can summarize how free access to information; restrictive application of legal limits; consideration of the public character of action without the need for accreditation of the condition of the person concerned to access it; and exhaustion of the administrative route with the resolution of the commission. I hope that the memory of 2018 shows the activity of the institution, and in the field of each one will allow us to open a space of reflection on which are the points where we should improve as a society, given that in the defence of human rights there are no aprioristic truths or easy solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u8	Thank you, Valor. The vice president will be with you first. We now begin, when the valet is incorporated into the rostrum, the turn of parliamentary groups to set positions. In this case, we start with the Joint Parliamentary Group. Mr. Villares has the floor for this.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u9	Good morning, gentlemen. Your Honor, I would like to thank you on behalf of En Marea for the form and tone in which not only this attendance, but the appearance which took place in the commission, both for you and your team, which means, in our opinion, a radical change on the part of the person holding the representation of this institution which is fundamental to the autonomy and self-government of Galicia; which is fundamental as a counterpower, as an independent space for defending the fundamental rights of citizenship, in order to advance both the action of the Government and the action of the legislature itself, both in relation to the competences of this chamber and in relation to the very scope of citizenship at the state level, and the recommendations made in that sense. We say this because we have come from a time-bound, excessively time-bound period, where that institution does not perform those functions, so we appreciate that tone and we hope that this work will be fruitful over the course of this period, not already begun, but also in the next periods. We are aware of a memory corresponding to the year 2018, where, despite all the inter-intensities, it is seen by the administrative action, by the actions of the Government, also by some unjust legislative situations, the limitation to the full exercise of fundamental rights. He referred to the valet to two that I think are fundamental. The rights of those who leave the full realization of people's lives are based on freedom and they are based on health, and when they don't work, all the others can evilfully preach a full realization. It references the 2018 report to health care, dependency, housing, energy, minors. It seems that the previous management was a management in which, in spite of all, a portal to how to manage, in relation to these rights, by the Council of Galicia, its public action. I want to refer to them in the chronological order. I think there are some important cases, making the school I'm talking about now. First of all, starting with urbanism, a situation that has to do with Galician soil law itself, not with administrative action, political action, local administration or the Government of Galicia, but with the configuration of the Land Law itself, where the lack of personal means and material means is denounced, above all, for the exercise of urban discipline, where the lack of means is denounced. It is reported that in the law of 2016 it moves from the autonomous community to the municipalities responsibility above all in disciplinary matters; that is, in the management of the city, in the management of the village, in the management of space, as a result of the adaptation of urban plans and standards, and as there is an absolute lack of means to execute that. As a result of the Galician Council's claim to discharge its responsibilities in urban matters in favour of municipalities that know in the meantime that they are lacking means and that they are also under great pressure, by the proximity of the local administration, neighbourhood and businesses, in order to achieve their ends properly. This is reported in the People's Valley itself, as these pressures make it impossible to properly implement the specific area of urban discipline. Budgets are already being presented for the year 2020, and in the Accompanying Measures Act there is the last amendment to a very recent law, which is Galician Soil Law, and we wonder if it would not be the time for the majority to reflect on the introduction of an amendment to the Land Law that would heed these requests made by the People's Valley itself. Secondly, in the field of energy poverty, En Marea warned this chamber, throughout 2018, that the change in the last resort tariff regime will result in the fulminant expulsion of collectives, families, people, who would be within the objective scope of the social discounts. The People's Party voted against and the result is that today, 160,000 Greek homes have been left outside, within the scope of the application. This is denounced, firstly — I said to Valdoria — for two consequences: by administrative obstacles and, secondly, by obliging an express change. At the time we said that it was necessary to make a moratorium, that it was necessary an information campaign, that there was a need for a change of rules and that it was necessary for families that were already benefiting from the tariff to remain by default. None of this has been done and the result is 160,000 private homes of this benefit when they fall within the requirements to do so. And we ask ourselves, who does this benefit? If it only benefits the electricians and harms the families, we wonder why the People's Party does not access our requests, which would have benefited both the homes of Galicia, and we were asked, once again, on whose side the majority is popular. Thirdly, with regard to training and payments to the unemployed, a warning is made that delays or delays in grants of assistance to unemployed persons result in conflict situations, causing precarious situations in families and in persons benefiting from such benefits. That's what we reported here two months ago, too, when we reported that between 2011 and 2018 945 million euros were not executed in active employment policies, many of which had budgets related to the complaints currently being made by Valedoria. And we wonder if the Galician Union is finally going to change the way we run the budgets to meet what it commits to budget. In the matter of health - and it has emphasized this circumstance, the right to health as a budget, together with the freedom of the other rights - there is a denunciation of two essential aspects that are Korean throughout the Greek citizenship constantly. The first of them, as the reorganization of health services is denying the benefits to people who are entitled to them. That is, as the suppression of services such as those of pediatrics in Chantada — to remind some of them — or as the removal of services or the deterioration of services such as primary care causes people to be excluded or treated unfairly in relation to health care, and that's a constant that repeats. It also repeats a constant complaint by the collective of ‘SOS public health’, other collectives, unions, patient associations, which we have brought here to Parliament, concerning how non-structural waiting lists are masking true dramatic times of waiting for the reception of health care. There are things in health that cannot wait, however, people are condemned, when they choose to be cared for in the public system, to be delayed in their attention in an absolutely unacceptable way. Then we ask ourselves, when the health insurance law says there is freedom of choice, what freedom is that in which the person who decides to be served in a public centre has a year's delay and the one who selects the private centre has six months' delay? There is no true freedom because the conditions of choice are not the same. So, in relation to attention time, people will obviously prefer the lower one because what's at stake is their own health. In relation to the autonomous administration of transport, there is a censorship of the abusive use of administrative silence. Administrative silence, even though it is regulated, is an abuse by the Administration, in the sense that it leaves the citizen, the citizen, helpless without knowing why they are denied a request they make, and everyone has the right to know why they are denied a benefit or a request, of the kind that is, even though it is obvious, forcing the person who sees his benefit denied to claim against the Administration, while the administration has the comfortable effect of administrative silence as a general rule, with a negative nature, for the effects that are essential to their rights. There is also a reference to something that has been denounced by the entire opposition at its time: Galicia's Public Transport Plan. There is reference to complaints about changes in hours, frequencies, connections, line deletion, the need for new services and correction of deficiencies, which, once again, is shown by an institution, the narrow failure of Galicia's public transport system. Well, in the accompanying law, you'll change this plan again. Why don't you include the valet's recommendations to solve all these problems manifested by citizenship? Is there anything more important than responding to people's complaints, expressed through this institution itself, which admits them because they're fair? As far as minors are concerned, a subject is always sensitive, a triple complaint is made. First, a poor organization of the service because of the absence of common protocols that provide the actions in the four provinces of a certain homogeneity; the lack of resources from professional teams; the lack of sufficient professionals; an excessive burden of work and a lack of remarkable expertise. Ladies and gentlemen, we ask you to make an effort. Apart from here, it's not all an economic matter. Good organization, good service coordination, protocol adoption, is not something that is necessarily expensive, however, it is essential to address the most sensitive part of the population, our children in a situation of unemployment. As far as information technologies are concerned, the complaint is made about the lack of coverage of a service which, although not recognized as a universal basic service, is the basic requirement for normal living conditions, which is access to the wide Internet band.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u10	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u11	I'm going to finish now, Mr. President. This is something that should be fundamental and that should be taken care of by a legislative chamber that serves a country where geographical dispersion throughout the territory is still remarkable. I ended up referring to the housing section. The complaint expresses how people who meet all requirements as housing claimants are not satisfied with their right, and the complaint to the Public Administration by the Valdoria that it is not found and is not justified to meet demands for lack of resources, but to make public policies that generate a public housing park, not on property, but above all on rent, in order to meet the needs of the most vulnerable groups that after the last economic recession have been seen not only deprived of access to the property but also of access to housing under lease regime, which allows them to be emancipated and to fulfil dignified living conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u12	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Parliamentary Group Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. Mrs. Valator of the People. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, the report presented here today in this plenary does not correspond to those presenting it, corresponds to a dark period of an institution that seems to be created to safeguard the fundamental rights of the Greeks and the Greeks. An institution that there is defined as the last resort left to those and those who feel angry, crushed or unjustly treated by the administration, by law, or by any other circumstance. We said the other day, Valorante, that this one who speaks to them, who also came to have his ingenuity one, came to believe that Valedoria was a way of dying, of terror or fairy of the waters that were successfully intervening in favour of the weak and banished from the abuses of the powerful. When one ceases to believe in these mythical beings of our culture, it comes to the realization that, in the same way, a manifestly unjust social and economical system, and sometimes affluent, must be equipped with certain escape valves, certain mouras, which avoid completely losing hope. In other words, when a system makes water and generates injustice, marginalization and poverty, without it being possible to restore its health, it makes essential placebo-impact drugs to get rid of and keep things where tacit power wants them to be. But not being this enough, you have a greater burden, and it is the shame and devaluation to which the People's Party has submitted to Valdoria, keeping in charge the previous holder for a long time unnecessary, in the stubborn intention to cover up and erase the unwarranted. To be said in a smooth way: arbitrariness in decision and deviation of power in administrative action. They were almost eleven months in an unsustainable situation, with the corresponding popular trial, which adds a further proof to what everyone -- and I say well -- and we all know -- the corruption practiced by the People's Party free of charge. It's going to be, therefore, a coast up which you're going to have to fight, because that decree appears in today's memory. For it is: 2,706 cases and 20,807 claimants. Either this is a happy world and there's nothing to complain about, or people don't believe in a dirty institution for the proven events of nepotism, or as it's said in Paladin Roman: entuffism. Of course, it could also be that the sectors that suffer the most from the negative economic and social reality do not know the existence of this institution, which can also be. Because this is not the case with the social conflict, with the Caritas report, with the aging of the population, with the deterioration of everyone's health, with unemployment, with the abandoned lands, with that new reality. Whatever it is, Valorative lady, you're going to have to make a remarkable effort to clear the name of the institution and give it cream. Remarkable effort, believe us. For now, in order to push them to the social needs, to the injustices and to defend the fundamental rights of citizens, they will have to act on their own initiative. He's going to have to run a outreach campaign that includes that up to where he's willing to reach his duties. The industrial sector, in full combat with the inaction of the Government, hopes hard times of unemployment and social conflict. Population aging shows dependency figures below reality. Once again, the divorce between rights and the materialization of rights; the people of this country endure until they can no longer. Rural depopulation destroys the areas, with loneliness coupled with lack of basic services, denying the essential rights of a people immersed in the sadness. There are no day centers, public residences, major centers in rural areas, and we are left alone. Public health and decommissioning. Only the recognition that no holidays are covered in any of the Galician CAPs creates such a number of goatish situations that we see as few requests raised to that institution. Another is the beginnings and completions of compulsory education: the lack of PT, logos, guides and cigarettes in the provision of squares. And the rush of the wind, and the forms, and the defence and resignation of so many, the abuse, the profits and the crumbs. Mayor, you're going to put it on. All legal but dishonest. Resource policy with nothing in return. Oh, yes, environmental and economic damage. And the total abandonment of the environment with its pollution problems, where small cases pay, but the big environmental lawbreakers negotiate with the future of others and rarely report their disguises. You see! Of course, I know they're political issues and the People's Valley shouldn't be a political institution, or should they? The past stage was shamefully done, as we have already said, now it's up to you to give him a money order. For it is: we insist on the little presence of these institutions in the consideration of the people. You're going to have to act on your own, we tell you again, if you want to give content to your work. You're going to have to go out the street looking for trouble if you want it to make sense of Valdoria. Will it be who? You know that the people of this country have since the night of their own language, a precious and valuable instrument for normal development as human beings. He also knows - he is aware - that with increasing intensity many children and children are denied the right to know and dive into the language of social solidarity here, giving continuity to a feeling of hidden shame that stigmatized and stigmatized a good sector of the population. And you will say that this is not so true that I say this because the language in which you are addressed is Greek at 75% and Spanish at 25%. The interpretation of this data damages us to think about. Either we are the most conscious citizens, or this is the country on the contrary. Contradictors do, it's true. Of course, Latin continued to be the language of writing with prestige for centuries and had been dead for centuries. Yes, we know you've met with the Bureau for Linguistic Normalization, congratulations. By the way, their existence is a fact that realizes that something doesn't work on this subject in our country. Yeah, there's a decree that violates the language rights of this people, you know? What do you want me to say? Welcome are the minutes of this House. That's what we're talking about in this second part of our speech, which is going to have to take the initiative if you want to operate that institution and give it some content. We're going to allow them a good dose of scepticism, we distrust the system and the pact. The former valet came out of this same pact between the majority forces of the House and the ostentatists of bipartisanism as a system that nothing changes in essence, and you see in what I give. There's a lot of work to do and we ask for independence. Don't scare me, independence, Valuable lady, in your performance. Only then will it make sense to exist in that institution of such a great name. And you go to the people, get to know them, give them content, if possible, to their institution. I wish you all the luck!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u14	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Joint Left Group, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u15	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Good morning. I would like to thank, once again, the presence of the new valet of the people, their willingness to appear in this Parliament and their clear desire to begin a new phase radically different from the previous one, in order to try to return dignity to the institution after being so crippled by their predecessor. So I need to begin my intervention by reading a paragraph of this report, just like the valet itself has just done here, on the same line: "Since the recent renewal of the title of Valdoria, and therefore the recent appointment and taking possession as the valuator of the people, the report I come up with is basically what was contained in the institution's computer system, pending the presentation that I now comply with." It is clear from the presentation that the current valet wishes to apologize for this infamous report. Logic! We have already said in Commission 1 a few days ago, and we repeat it today, that it is regrettable that we have to value in this Chamber a report which should be independent and, on the other hand, is partisan, ideological and clearly part of it, to justify the actions or inactions of the Government of the United States. The former valet did a demolition work of the institution, degrading its objectives, causing her to lose her credibility as an institution of all the Greeks and Greeks and, of course, she became famous and made the institution famous for being the valet condemned by the plug to a direct relative of the spokesperson of the People's Party. Miracles Otero avoided giving up his office in a supernatural way, until the last minute. Without success, because the pressure was so great that it finally gave up on the consequences of the demolition. This report demonstrates its lack of suitability for the post, and makes us understand another reason for the closure of the ranks and ferro-defense of your people's group in this Parliament again and again, after a vote. This report implies presentation of what is probably the worst time of the institution and the darkest one, and the worst report presented by this House. He finished his term with an exercise that demonstrates how he has turned an institution designed to protect the Greeks and the Greeks, and the rights of Greek citizenship, into an institution prostrated to the interests of the People's Party of Galicia and Mr. Feijóo. Today, we ask this new valet that, if you want to start your journey correctly, you clearly express the issues on which this report is introduced. Let us, in our opinion, list the issues by which we from our group regard this report as infamous, why we make all this argument and why we consider it unworthy of an institution as important as the People's Valedoría. To begin with, the report already violates Article 6 of Law 6/1984 of 5 June, which acknowledges that the people's valet will carry out its work with total autonomy, without receiving instructions from any authority. It is unacceptable that the people's valet used the report to advertise the Government's action, taking advantage of each thematic introduction to praise the Government's initiatives, without any analysis of its results based on the data it should handle. Among the statistical data presented in the report, it is surprising the bold action of trying to conceal that the two basic public services, and with greater budgetary weight and competence of the Galician Union, are those that have a greater number of complaints, education and health; not more than 52.04% of the complaints. Another example that in our group we knew - we spoke to the voices of Antonio Sánchez, Manuel Lago and the coordinator and also previous Member, Juan Fajardo - is a paragraph that would be quoted by the spokesperson of the People's Group in commission, and we did so, as it was: trying to hide the reality of public employees who today have not recovered the rights that have been stolen from the cuts of Montoro, both salary and free-will days; a rest rate that follows in historic minimas that is bleeding and aging the Welsh Public Administration, without restoring staff members, and which in short it is a let the Public Administration die slowly to justify outsourcings and the private model, along with stratospheric rates of potential workers, deepening their temporality, instability and precariousness. But he quoted: "Although the subjects that make up most of the claims processed are usually repeated during the last years, we must point out that in 2018 there has been a decrease, both quantitative and qualitative, of the complaints received in this area. At our trial, the reason for this decline is the gradual restoration of employment rights which have been restricted as a result of measures to curb public expenditure adopted because of the economic crisis of previous years. The progressive recovery of labour rights that have been limited since 2012, leading to the precarious working conditions of public employees, has clearly reflected in the management of files of this defence." We insist that this is a lie, it is a shame that this report will gather this appreciation as it is drafted, apart from the fact that it is not to be received that the People's Valedor uses austerity as an excuse for the failure to comply with labour agreements on public employment. But if you are committed to insisting that this premise is true, then this would show that education and health are worse than ever, as we have repeatedly denounced since our group, trade unions, social agents, parents, mothers and so on, as they occupy -- let's repeat -- 52.04% of all the complaints made. Let's go through areas. Education area. The report reaches the point of advertising and recommending to families the use of private education for 0-3 years, indicating that there is the Conciliation Bond and that this is the best option when there are no squares. When the receipt would cover the ratios of necessity. Defending the use of privatized services, which also make claims for waiting lists in health care, is scandalous and shameful. Sanitary area. Despite the fact that this party begins with one of the few truths in which the report recognizes the health situation with the following statement: "Most of the claims are concentrated on decreasing health professionals, reducing services and excessive delays in health care." And it concludes by saying, "The population of Galicia perceives a continuing deterioration of the public health system. That's right, first try to minimize the high number of complaints in this area and then apologize or look for other culprits other than Joine. When it comes to the shortage of pediatricians, instead of looking for solutions, it tries to use the counsellor's argument: there are no pediatricians available, it cannot be resolved in the short term... and it has to do with the Ministry's decision on MIR squares. One of the biggest problems in our health, no doubt, are the waiting lists, and for Valador this situation is almost resolved by the Health Insurance Act, which we remember that what it does is to derive patients from private health when the maximum times are passed and remove them from the waiting list if they do not accept this mandatory derivation. For Valadora this is the solution, and only asks the Councillor to review the problem. Like that, like that. Equality and reconciliation. Please speak on the report of some problems with the Welcome card. This title seeks to reduce the problems arising, in practice, from the implementation of this card: difficulty in charging and impossible, up to months ago, to collect it in the event of adoption. The failure of one of the government's star measures Feijóo and what they constantly suck. Vivenda. This is scandalous, too. As far as the right to housing is concerned, it equates the problems arising from the occupation of dwellings with evictions. Like that, like that. That's it, that's it! To keep your mouth open. Environment Area. In the situation of environmental emergency that is living on the planet and therefore also Galicia, this section remains in the analysis of the anecdote, without deepening the complaints that relate to pollution and other activities with a strong environmental impact. An example of the inexplicable criterion used for this report is how in this paragraph the report devotes twice as much time to explaining a complaint about the nature of dangerous animals that to explain their actions by complaints arising from eucalyptus plantations, which the report dispatchs with one: "The Rural Environment Council has adequately justified its action. The eucalyptus is not considered an invasive species, according to the Spanish catalogue of exotic and invasive species. There are no differences in the treatment of the matter by governments of different political parties." But he uses twice as much time to talk about dangerous animals. What's this in practice? The transcription, in the report of the People's Valedor, of the idea and argumentary of the People's Party on this subject that we have so often heard from the councillor here. In conclusion, the report by this valet, who had to resign by force, shows that the valet of the Otero People's Miracles was really Valator of the Galician People's Party, who worked in complete coordination with the Government of Galicia and Mr. Feijóo. There were many more examples of industry and many more subjects, which we cannot cite because of time, in the scandal of the nearly eight hundred pages of this report. We hope, from our group, that this new stage will be radically different and this will never happen again. We wish very much luck to the new valet and his team, who will need it, and we offer again our full collaboration to look after this institution, after being so crippled by its predecessor, and dignify it again. Besides, this is important for our democratic system, for our Greek institutional system, and because it's going to be the best to guarantee the rights of all Greeks and Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. We greet the students and students of the 1st and 2nd ESO of the Plurilingual Center Antonio Orza Couto of Boqueixón. They also have their teachers and escorts. Welcome to Parliament. Also the people who are in the rostrum today. Welcome, everyone. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group you have the word donna Patricia Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u17	Thank you, President. Welcome to this school in Boqueixion, which today is lucky to be in a debate on the normalized People's Valley, the debate that every year, as a result of the report by the People's Valley, should have been given in this House, and not others. Today is a good day, it's an important day, because we normalize the institution in this House again, and we look towards the future, which is what we have to do, without losing sight of what happened in the past to avoid repeating it, of course. First of all, I want to bless and thank the current valet, its current team and the previous team, which was, above all, the one that worked on this 2018 report. They responded to 20,807 complaints that year, and we believe that there is still a lot of work to be done, because there are still repeated requests for information to the Government, over a hundred, and 47 urgent warnings, to each of the advisors mentioned in the report. I want to congratulate the valet on its feminist tab on the Valdoria page, and from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we want it to be done in the possibility of changing the anachronism of the name of the institution itself, Valdour of the People, when right now it's you two women - you and your deputy - who are in front of the institution. We also congratulate him on his meeting with the Bureau of Linguistic Standardization, which gives evidence of his concern and concern for the Greek language, which is not going ahead, as much as the Government tells us. With regard to minors, we ask you to do so much on the civilian side, since there are teams in Vigo that are under minimum and the workers, the officials, they no longer provide enough, as well as in their criminal part, to visit the juvenile centers. I want to make a point here -- unfortunately I'm not the Social Policy Advisor -- especially the Avelino Montero, which is one of the few audiences left, and, as far as it contains us, it doesn't have a specific set budget of 1.3 million euros for its reform. We regret the delay in this report. We're almost in 2020, but we're talking about the year 2018, so the data is from 2018, but that recent disgraceful past that institution has made us feel right now in this situation. I want to talk about the issues that we could find in this report. You started talking about health in your report today. In this report of the year 2018, it is buried in health care and is spoken of as structural dysfunctions. He says there's a health problem that generally affects the entire autonomous community. It's also a pity the health counselor isn't here to hear it. From the report, you ask him to propose the number of squares to the Government of the State, which is his obligation and was his obligation for all these years, and we are in the situation of scarcity in which we are precisely because the duties have not been made. In fact, the report itself says that Valedoria is waiting for final measures to be taken. From the opposition, we also continue to wait for these measures to be realized. In housing, in 2018 there were 13,426 applicants for protected housing. Today it's over 14,000. And in the report itself it is said that the Government should not simply justify that it can't, that they don't give themselves anymore because they can't do any more, but what it should do is make more public promotion housing. And from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we also agree with this appreciation. In public transport, the report reflects the reform disaster. It is also a pity that I am not the Infrastructure Advisor, because he advocates collective public transport respectful of the environment, efficient and useful, as we ask him to do in our Law on Sustainable Mobility. In public employment, it's hard in the report to find these issues, because it's a very big report, with a lot of law, and we need to examine it. I would like to thank all my colleagues and colleagues in the Socialist Parliamentary Group who worked in their areas in order to find these issues. In public employment, it is said that the Union must consider it as an obligation of behaviour in the future to resume social dialogue, in order to recover agreements that allow for the inclusion of commitments in collective bargaining. We also agree with this appreciation in the Socialist Parliamentary Group, because we want to look, as always, at the situation of our social status. And here I want to make a point. Not all governments care about it the same. There are governments that are braver and there are governments that are cowards, because they say so anonymously, not because they are cowards, but because the Antonym is cowardly. [[Murmurs.]] With regard to gender violence, regarding the change of name as a victim of gender violence, there was a complaint to the Ombudsman confirming the acceptance of the recommendations of the Ministry of Justice for that change, and it was the Government of the State that reformed the electoral law, allowing people with cognitive disabilities to vote for the first time in Spain, more than 100,000 people, eliminating that democratic anomaly. There are different governments and there are different ways of defending the social and democratic rule of law. There are 8,437 complaints in health care, 8,437! With these structural dysfunctions in the waiting lists, in the casualties, in the lack of human resources - the main problem of the public system in Galicia - says: "They have repeatedly been registered in the People's Valedor complaints denouncing insufficient staff frames or shortage of substitutes." We say it here a thousand times. There are 1,651 complaints in Social Policy. There are brave governments that defend people with cognitive disabilities and there are other governments -- and judicial measures -- that prohibit people with disabilities from accessing a public housing in Galicia, social housing or public promotion. There is a Royal State Decree of 2013, which sets these people's right to live independently. But the German Decree, which is of the year 2007, which speaks of the Galego Institute of Vivenda and Solo, requires that they have full capacity to operate the applicants. Valador's report asked the Social Policy Council to change it. We're talking about a law of the year 2012. What the Council did was say it was going to develop that law in 2012. Seven years later, almost eight, we're waiting for that development, and while these people have no right to ask for and access a public promotion housing in our community. In 2018, complaints about delays in the valuation of the dependency increased. It remains unpaid for the family members of the deceased before their right is recognized, and there is also a structural dysfunction in the assessment of disability, because most of the social services recommendations affect precisely disability assessment teams. The answer from the Social Policy Council is a fallacy. There are no fourteen new teams. There was a team hire for six months, and then extended for another three months. There are no 14 new teams in Galicia! This structural dysfunction also exists in residential squares. There are complaints that refer to the delay in the effectiveness of services and the lack of information on waiting lists, and that Galicia has a rate of squares per residence and inhabited a point smaller than the state average and two points less than the World Health Organization requires. I'm no longer talking about the legal time of processing procedures, which is 180 days, and in Galicia we're in 453 days. There are 2,390 complaints in Education, also complaining about the lack of attention to the student with specific educational support needs. Again these first and second citizens that the Government continues to keep. And finally, there were 1.245 complaints in the environment. Most refer to acoustic contamination, but I finally want to focus on glyphosate, on the use of pesticides, because in the report it is said that the use of this type of product must meet the criteria of rationalization and sustainability. It criticises the use of glyphosate exactly as we have done and requested from the Socialist Parliamentary Group many times, unfortunately. We hope that the report of the People's Valedora will be more fortunate than we have from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, as a matter of urgency, I would like to express the support of the People's Parliamentary Group for the bodies and security forces of the State that have been displaced to Catalonia to ensure social coexistence and freedom. [[Applause]] We want an early recovery of Ivan and Angel, who are the two agents assaulted at these violent demonstrations in Barcelona. [[Applause]] First of all, I want to welcome the Valorative Lady. This is your first debate in this House. Despite the fact that a few days ago we had the opportunity to talk about the issues of the report in Commission 1a, although this is the first time we have spoken in plenary. What I mean is that the debate of the Valator is as normal as in previous years, the difference is that in previous years the opposition leader, the Socialist Party, was present, and this year, in the first report of the Valator of the People, the leader of the Socialist Party is not present to see the debate. That, Mrs. Vilan, it's really abnormal. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] This report certainly does not correspond to the management of the valet that presents it — the 2018 Report — but it is a report that shows a magnificent work of the former valet, whose priority has always been to extend the institution's knowledge... throughout the territory, especially in rural areas and in smaller municipalities. [[Murmurs.]] Many things were said here about whether the PP was a valet, about whether it was an infamous report... I ask the opposition to agree, because there are headlines when this Report was recorded in the House, specifically Mr. Villares, who said, "The Valator's Report implies an amendment to the entire policy of the Board." Well, if it's an amendment to all the policies of the PP government, we don't understand how you can say you're the PP valet, which is an infamous report... and then say that it's quite extensive in health matters, in terms of education... It's not all right to criticize PP, and to say one thing, and the opposite is very complicated. In matters of language — Mr Rivas, I have already told you in Commission 1a — the Valator's Report certainly shows that the Greek language is healthy. Seventy-five percent of the complaints were filed in English, in our language, what happens is that — as Alonso Montero, president of the Academy said — BNG wants both the language and that mother who squeezes so much the child she cares about. Don't hold your tongue! [[Murmurs.]] Don't put something negative that's positive. [[Applause]] It's good for us that citizenship is approaching the Valedor in the English language, you see it as something negative. [[Applause]] From the complaints in the Report on the Language we find that, behind these complaints, there is in no way any attempt to discriminate against Greek, no contempt of language, no violation of linguistic rights. They were the result of more domestic issues, such as technical failures, economic restrictions or simple errors. We believe there is no problem with promoting the Greek language, and we can't talk about that discrimination of the language rights you were talking about. As regards public employment, it has been said here that, as the complaints in the Valedor report are collected, Mrs. Santos does not like to say, indeed, that the economic crisis is being overcome and that, at a time of recovery, rights in public employment are being gradually recovered. He doesn't like it. Of course, it's just that the complaints from public employees now don't refer to that restriction of rights, they don't mean that there's no public job offer, they don't refer to those issues. In fact, as there is a public job offer, the complaints are that if the bases could be better or worse, or containing other assessments they consider; or by the conditions of public workers: vacations, permits, licenses, conciliation measures... well, they are very different from those dealt with in previous years. We're talking about 2018, and indeed we were in a context of recovery before, but now we've found ourselves in a different context. Those signs of economic recovery are fading, and the political decisions of the new Government are affecting industrial employment in Galicia. We are also talking about industry in the Valator report, and we are warning you of the report of the dependence of some industrial sectors on the increase in energy cost, such as in our community the Alcoa or Ferroatlantic companies, which have entered into crisis — the report says — when the average cost of kilowatt / hour increased; and the consequences of the increase in the cost of electricity supply for consumers, between 24% and 30%, as the report collects. We have told the valet, we suggest, that, as in other areas, it may initiate matters of its own motion, we believe that it is important for industrial employment in Galicia to start research as well as how it can affect this rise in electricity in the industrial sector, and why the Central Government is not taking the measures it needs to take, for example, to adopt an electro-intensive statute, which would favour that industrial employment is not at risk as it is now seeing and whole districts of Galicia in the face of disappearance. Because here we are talking about other things, but they are not concerned that there are districts of Galicia where employment is at grave risk of decisions and occurrences of the Central Government of Socialist Mr Sánchez. In health, indeed, there were 446 issues. Of course, some matter has a thousand and I pick complaints because it was perhaps a specific service and it was a thousand and peak complaints; but matters are 446, don't forget, Mrs Vilán! Of course! here we speak of thousands of complaints and it seems that... it is true that there have been many complaints in the field of health, but it is also true that it is the service of what thousands of people make use of every day, and it is normal that, proportionally, the most used service in Galicia is also the service that most complaints present. The results of the health assessment surveys offer the result that health is good or very good, and neither the People's Party nor the Government of the Union say so, the citizens, the users of that service. In primary care citizens value care as good or very good: in 2003, 79.48%; in 2009 — when you rule — 84%; in 2017, 88.5%. As in external consultations: we increased from 75% in 2009 to 78.80% in 2017. Emergency: 78.60 % in 2009 and 84.7% in 2017. Two news, April 8, 2009: "The Galician health is the second state with the worst assessment of citizens, 5.87 out of 10 in valuation". "The Greeks value the public health system by 6.43 out of 10 according to the health barometer", March 1, 2019. Therefore, I think, Mrs Vilan and ladies, that in health, there are certainly services and there are issues that can be improved, but citizenship values it positively and you should do so as well. About the waiting times, you spoke here of the Law of Assurances. Look, ladies and gentlemen, the first thing I have to say is that the guarantee times for non-emergency care do not exist. And when you talk about the loss of the guarantee when you go to a concert, you didn't pass the People's Party that decree, it's a decree signed by the unforgettable Minister Leire Pajín, ruling Mr. José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero. Royal Decree 1039/2011 of 15 July 2011 — it may read — Article 6. So the loss of that guarantee is not the People's Party's business. In any case, 100 percent of patients included in the Guarantee Act were treated in public centers, no patients with serious or priority pathology was derived from a concerted centre. Why? Because the Law of Guarantees refers to serious, very serious and priority pathologies 1. Therefore, I think it is also important to know that basic legislation is to be complied with and in no case in the autonomous community we have powers to modify it. So you, who are so worried, speak to Mr. Sánchez and see if now he's in office and he's like this... in an electoral period and so on, just like on some social Fridays — before November 10, because then he'll stop being president — he can change this issue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u20	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u21	Yes. As far as urbanism was concerned, I wanted to tell Mr. Villares -- what happens is that Mr. Villares came, spoke and left, and he's not, I'm sorry -- something about urban discipline. It's true that the municipalities have competence in urban discipline, but it's also true that they have the possibility of delegates to the APLU, and there are only 80 municipalities in Galicia that have delegated these powers to the APLU. And if there are municipalities that consider that they don't have human resources or technical or physical means to address these issues, to delegate them to the APLU, which for that is. They don't blame Galician Union because Junta has that possibility that was regulated by law. What we want to say — to finish now, Mr President — is that we are satisfied with this report because we believe that it shows that the institution works, that the institution responds to citizenship. When a citizen makes a complaint in Valdoria, she has just explained to the Valdoria that this complaint is being processed and usually, in a very high percentage of cases, the Administration responds and responds to the complaint made by the citizen. Therefore, we believe that this intermediation work, that work that is being done in Valedoria, is fundamental to guaranteeing the rights of citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u22	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u23	And we encourage the Valorative Lady to follow that line. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. We move on to item 3 of the agenda, legislative texts. Debate of the entire draft law on the regulation of the ludic use of the thermal waters of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u25	This bill has been amended in full with a request for the return of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Left Joint Group and the Galician Nationalist Block Group. For the presentation of the bill, Mr. Francisco Conde López has and his word is Economic, Employment and Industry Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Galicia has in its waters, in general, and in the thermals in particular, an important source of natural wealth that makes our autonomous community a real national and international power in this matter. This valuable indigenous resource converts Galicia into the second thermal region of Europe and the first of Spain. We have three hundred seizures of mineral-medicine water, of which most are thermal. We offer 21 balconies and 3 balconies, which have more than 3,000 hotel squares, that is, around 20% of the national offer, which are received annually about 150,000 users. We have in Galicia a fifth of Spain's spas with Q of tourist quality, 7 of a total of 33. And in our autonomous community there is also the second European city with higher reserves of mineral-medicine water, Ourense, just behind Budapest. In short, a reality that confirms the potential of the Greek thermalism, which places this sector as an important asset, not only natural but also heritage, cultural, industrial and even tourist and playful, and invites us to cooperate and act with the aim of protecting such a valuable resource through a comprehensive policy framework that regulates the different uses. For Galicia, the care of its thermal resources is a strategic priority. We have made an important effort to achieve a regulatory framework for ordering and developing this sector. They highlight, as you know, Law 5/1995, so that the mineral, thermal, water and bathing facilities of Galicia are regulated; and Decree 402/1996, of the use of mineral-medicine water. A regulatory framework that accompanied the design of plans and measures to sustainably exploit the country's thermal wealth. I refer to the Plan Ourense thermal province; to the Plan of Tourism and Thermal Health of Galicia, within the framework of what was created the Chair of Medical Hydrology; or to the impulse of the first Greek ecobarry in Ourense through geothermia. On this road, the Galician Union counted on the collaboration and support of all agents; I refer to the industrial sector, the academic field and also to local and national administrations. Ladies and gentlemen, we have an obligation to observe and study the habits of citizens, to evaluate new situations and social, cultural and economic circumstances, to identify opportunities and also to adapt their measures and standards to accompany them to the pace of change in their surroundings. In recent years, as you know, there has begun to be a new trend in international emissions: the use of mineral-medicine and thermal water for fun and leisure. The result of this new habit, they began to proliferate different tourist projects that lacked the conditions legally established to be considered bathing but which did not have a specific regulation either. The draft law on the regulation of the ludic use of water from Galicia, adopted at the Council of June 1st, and which we present in this Parliament today, is therefore born with the objective of giving a concrete response to a business reality and to a real demand of today's society, covering a legal vacuum, which will enable us to promote the growth of this sector in an orderly manner and also conferring confidence and security on both businessmen and customers themselves; a pioneering law with which Galicia will be the first autonomous community to regulate the different uses of the thermal waters, establishing a new use of the thermal waters, a new use that will mark a clear frontier between the spas and cliffs, with therapeutic uses and which will be regulated by the law of the year 1995, and, on the other hand, thermal spaces and pools with playful use, which will have this new legislation that we present today. We will therefore strengthen the quality of our extensive thermal supply, providing legal security and guarantees to the tourism projects that so far did not have and do not have a specific regulation; a law which, in addition, is born of consensus and dialogue, in which in its preparation they have taken account of the needs of the sector, which has complied with the consultation and public information procedures, which has moved to the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces and which has also submitted itself to the dictates of the Executive Committee on Mine Development of the Galician Economic and Competitiveness Council, without obtaining any votes against, and on what the bathing sector has already said in favour. We therefore hope that parliamentary groups will also join this initiative, an initiative designed to protect citizens and our heritage in a special and differentiated way. The new law, as collected in its articulated, seeks to meet four fundamental objectives. First of all, to ensure the health and hygiene of the playful uses of the thermal waters. Secondly, to ensure the environmental sustainability of thermal waters, to prevent the degradation of their quality and the reduction of their flow. Thirdly, to protect its integrity as a natural, heritage, cultural, tourist and playful resource. And finally, promote the economic and social development of the populations where these thermal waters flow. There are many aspects of the law, but we have to highlight eight. First of all, with its application it will be established as a precondition that the waters contain a declaration of thermal water. In the same way, this use will be possible in the case of waters which possess the double condition of thermal and mineralmedicine always and when the requirements set out in the standard are met. Secondly, the cases in which new recreational uses are compatible with bathing facilities and their protective perimeters are regulated. Thirdly, only landowners can apply for this type of use, distinguishing, in the case of private persons or entities, where they will be granted an administrative authorization for the required time, which will be reviewed every ten years, and, in the case of public entities, where they will be granted a concession for a period of thirty years, extendable up to seventy-five years. On the other hand, the law regulates the procedure for obtaining this authorisation or concession, laying down all the documentation to be submitted by the person concerned, granting a period of public information and twenty-day hearing and listing the precise reports. Fifthly, the obligation to have a financial guarantee and civil liability insurance and to submit a four-year plan of use. Sixthly, the obligation to return the situation to its original state and leave the area in security conditions should be laid down after the end of use, and a closure and abandonment plan should be adopted. Seventh, the law lays down the conditions for the accessibility and safety of the facilities and the hygienic-sanitary conditions, whose minimum requirements shall correspond to the competent board. And finally, the articulated collects a regime of inspection and sanctions, where the various infringements are collected and criminalized, with sanctions ranging from 300 to 90,000 euros, or even the temporary suspension of the use of up to one year. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we are moving the sector forward, not forgetting that the priority is to protect this important natural resource and its surroundings, while at the same time guaranteeing users the health and safety of the facilities. As I said at the outset, this law ultimately aims to regulate a situation that we have been observing for some time, and that is why the law lays down a solution for installations dedicated to the ludicrous use of the waters that are already functioning. In this case they will be given a maximum of twelve months to regularize their situation and thus ensure the continuity of those thermal spaces that take time by offering their services to citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, this new Galician law aspires to have a new thermal map in which each and every use of these waters is perfectly orderly and regulated. The objective is only to provide the maximum guarantees to all actors: to the current owners, for their establishments will have legal protection; to those interested in promoting new play facilities, which will have a perfectly defined framework; also to the users of the installations, who will be sure that they are in spaces that meet all the necessary safety and hygiene requirements; and, of course, guarantees for our resource, which will continue to have maximum protection. At first he said that Galicia has in its thermal waters a great potential for the future. Having such a comprehensive regulatory framework and having a pioneering law in the wake of the ludicrous use of these waters is a new opportunity for Galicia; a new opportunity for the tourism sector, which will see its offer and quality of its services and also the diversity of its proposals; a new opportunity for the business sector, which incorporates a new fully regulated service to its business possibilities; and a new opportunity to boost economic activity, employment and tourism within Galicia, where much of this resource is located. Ladies and gentlemen, this Parliament also has, ultimately, an opportunity to shape our support for a sector, the thermal sector, which is demanding a position of unity in defence of its needs; an opportunity which offers us this new legislative instrument to promote and protect one of our most precious resources: the thermal waters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u27	Thank you, Counselor. The role of defence of amendments to the whole and position of the bill. Parliamentary Group Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u28	Good morning to all of you. Since the Galician Nationalist Block we have tabled an amendment to the whole of return for reasons of form, but also for reasons of political background, Counselor. Because we understand that, above all, thermalism is a serious matter, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, and this project has certainly not been serious and is not up to the circumstances, because it neither solves the problems already existing nor lays the foundations for us to be able to successfully take on the new challenges of the future and exploit the potential of thermoism in our country. And more so, we run the risk that, far from what you sold us to order -- what they really add are more regulatory uncertainties -- if you can distort the thermal map and the idiosyncrasy of Greek thermoism, which we have built with great social and also public and private effort. We therefore tabled this amendment with a sense of responsibility, responsibility with this country and with a matter that we really believe should be a matter of country and require much greater dialogue and reflection. And the main problem for us of this law is the starting point, Mr. Conde, because we have to say that for us this law really stems from the necessity that you have to do what you do, and in view is the result, because the underlying reason is the exhaustion of the absolute lack of initiative of the People's Party also in the matter of thermal development. And that's why it comes from an improvisation and a series of promises that start in 2017 in successive debates of the nation's state and that we even saw how they lasted unnecessarily in time. Because the truth is, once they closed the public exposure deadline in 2018, we thought if they were taking so much time it would be for something, but really to see this final result, that in 70% it is a recapitulation of the legal framework that already exists and in 30% it is adding more uncertainty about the sector, since it is disappointing that it took so long to bring a project with so many limitations. I have to tell you with all due respect but with all clarity. And the truth is, you had, in the face of a need that no one denies, that is to categorize a concept that did not exist in our legal framework, two possibilities. The first would be to make a partial and rapid reform of that law in 1995 and to provide coverage in this way, or the second — which we would have preferred — to make a new law; to make a new law that could review all those issues that, in more than twenty-five years of regulatory framework, logically, in the face of the evolution of the sector, may have a need. But the truth is, at last, what they offer does not mean a qualitative leap for the thermalism of our country, because the truth is that they gave up these two possibilities and finally chose a third mediocre route, a third path that is not useful for progress. It is — I insist — mostly a reflection of the framework that already exists, it is an addendum of issues that seem to us controversial and that are not equipped with sufficient security. That is why we are basically presenting today a refund amendment, Counsellor, because, above the differences in model — which we are sure of — we understand that this question requires a little seriousness and a little planning and forecast. Therefore, they return the law to the Government and do this in another way, because the thermalism of this country does not deserve this mess of procedure. And besides, we're talking about something that's complex, and you know it perfectly well. You know that mining legislation, which we've been given, is already part of a law of franchise, and you also know that Galicia was a pioneer in developing a law on the subject, and that this had a process of years and that it had a parliamentary process even over six months. So we're not talking about a slight issue, about an issue that is uncomplicated that you can vent in this way. And they come here to defend a law with an excuse for a certain void, but not to offer an alternative. And besides, we understand that they did not do the duties as they would have done to be the Government of this country to reach this point. Starting with participation. We do not share at all his triumphal speech about participation, first of the municipalities, because participating is not that Baltar invites you to a meeting to explain the law or to take a picture of Termatalia. To participate is much more, and, in fact, precisely because of the claim of many municipalities you had to give audiences to several of them. [[Applause]] And about social participation because you come here and tell us that they have complied with the law. Man, you'd only be missing, Mr. Francisco Conde, that they didn't comply with the Transparency Law! But so much is evidenced in the drafting phase, where only seventeen suggestions from the Transparency Portal, which, of course, are not annexed — we do not know why — to the file of the law, and twenty-five allegations that have not been answered in a serious way, nor even the allegations presented by their councils; I refer to the allegations made by the Uranian People's Party of Extinct Jesus Vázquez; nor even those allegations are answered with some seriousness. And therefore, from our point of view, the processing of this law has not promoted broad and peaceful social participation. And it is not envisaged in the measures that it provides, because we understand that the participation of the society of thermalism does not begin or end in legal proceedings, and this shows, firstly, the intention of relegating the thermoism to a background as an activity that is also popular and social, and shows a growing distance between society and administration, a distance in the construction of the thermoism that this law will only expand rather than reduce. And, in addition, we could go into details of other issues, in which the file itself reveals several evidences that are collected in the comprehensive report of the legislative development office. You know, in addition, that there are conflicting aspects, that there are complex aspects that are not deliberate enough, such as the problem about the ownership of mineral and thermal waters, the issue of enabling titles, the possible limitations from the point of view of competence by the already legal doctrine and the restrictions which are also imposed on the capacity of this country to legislate. Also, as a side issue, it is unheard of that in a legislation which seeks to regulate the exploitation we make of thermal waters at no time refers to the fact that 75% of this country's territory is managed by basins which are alien to the sovereignty of this Parliament. So it's a question we left there, but you know that involves a lot of problems in the reality of the territory. And we have councils — we could talk here about the example of Castrelo de Mine, which we have already brought to this Parliament — where there are very serious difficulties with the Hydrographic Confederation to work on the thermal uses. We are also concerned that this law has a tremendously partial perspective, firstly, for focusing only on play and not making a more ambitious regulatory review, but secondly, also partial, because you live in the monoculture of tourism. In this country there is no more vital alternative than tourism, and, yes, Galicia is tourism and thermalism is tourism, but Galicia and thermalism are much more than tourism, Mr Counsellor. Cannot accept this absolutely limited starting point. You, for example, totally disregard the social function of thermalism. It seems to be remembered, but health is not only what your doctor or doctor prescribes; therefore, health is not only the therapeutic use of these thermal waters, but much more. The very playful aspect is part of mental health, the treatment of well-being, the habits, the quality of life, the quality of life that we aspire to as Greeks and Greeks, because it can't be the same living in the thermal Galicia as living in the middle of a step and going from time to time on vacation to a place that has a thermal use. We understand, Mr. Conde, that thermalism is indeed an opportunity for Galicia, but that you have to open up perspectives instead of closing them. And it also says a lot about this law that comes to this point with that recital about the spa plan but without an evaluation. The Thermal Plan itself — you did not say it — already foresees the revision of the regulatory framework by 2015. So, some explanation will have to be given, or the results of that plan or why they haven't done their homework before. We also find it bloody that industrial potential is completely ignored; you mentioned it here in your intervention, but you forgot to expose it to the law. I hope they will then vote in favour of the amendments of the BNG, which do include the industrial issue. I will no longer enter the ecobarry of science fiction. I woke up this morning and didn't notice anything new, but of course we don't understand why they ignore the industrial part. There is potential in our country in that respect, not only in energy; cosmetic, for example, is a totally wasted door. What I have here is another question you ignore: the water campus, the University of Vigo, the Chair of Biology, which made a slightly partial mention. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantiños shows a document.]] Here we have innovation studies applied to the province of Ourense where such proposals are defended, Mr. Conde. You ignore them completely; you go on the one hand to Galician Union and on the other hand to the innovation policy of this country. It also draws attention, painfully, to the absence of reflection on the potential and use of heritage. One question for you is this playful use and another question is to completely ignore the heritage potential. No mention in all the legal text. The truth is, it's not surprising to see the political neglect of the Galician Union in this respect. We could talk about the situation of the Troncoso Bridge in Mondariz-Balneario; we could talk about the discovery of a castrex sauna that is probably the best preserved throughout Europe, in Cervo, and your solution is: we're covering it up; and a long et cetera. We understand that it can't be equal to getting into a well in Ourense or in King's Horses that in Budapest or anywhere else, Mr. Count; we have to put it in what is the culture and the Greek heritage. And that way, the route of differentiation, is that they are following all the product strategies in the capitalist economy, except for the Galician Union, which now must be anti-capitalists you, and even with those we can't afford to take advantage of Galicia's differential in our favor, Mr. Conde; that they no longer adopt it by nationalism; I know that this battle has been lost, but at least by a question of this country's skill and economic, industrial and also heritage strategy. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And then there's another question you've also insisted on, and I'm particularly upset by this sudden demagogy that you have with territorial rebalancing, a new headline, another free for that sudden consciousness against the demographic crisis that entered them, but without the slightest rigour. You, who always speaks of rigour, the adviser of rigor, come here to defend a law that is the permanent oximor, like all the economic policies of the board of Galicia, but already in this law they carry the palm. Because you are able to say in the same text that this law is key to economic development and that it has nothing to do with economic development. You're the ones who say it. They say in Article 2 that it is key to economic development, in the explanatory statement, in that litany he told us, in the provinces of the interior, but then it justifies that there is no ESC report because thermalism has nothing to do with the economy. Man!, a little serious, a little serious, Mr. Count. Read the file from her. In fact, you justify it that way, and we don't appreciate that apology from the Executive Committee on Mine Development, because, to begin with, the conclusions you would know, what we have on file is an act; that does not exempt the grave fact that this law does not follow a report from the Economic and Social Council, Mr. Conde. It's a chapuza, one more, of his government. Like this law has no budget either. You're going to make the thermal revolution, you're going to make the thermal revolution in the midst of a new economic crisis, but you're not going to spend a single euro on this country's thermalism. You'll tell me what they're going to do then, because of course we believe that just with this law on the table will not come here millions of euros of private investment to strengthen us. Finally, we also want to draw attention to the fact that this law introduces serious risks of confusion between the play aspect and between the therapeutic aspect exclusively. Mr. Conde, you yourself have been tremendously incoherent, because you spoke at the same time as border and at the same time as compatibility. We understand that there are important risks and that this text should have a more relaxed legal procedure to collectively reflect on issues that really deal with legal and regulatory security and that avoid distorting the thermal map in our country, for lack of coherence and rigour itself. Of course, you came here to assume that they added big, objective questions about the concern of health, and the amendments that they had to accept from the social participation process are precisely those that reminded them that they forgot the preliminary health report. It's just a sample of how this has neither feet nor heads. Of course, not too long, too much confidence that you will protect the thermal resources of this country. I won't talk about how they don't fulfill mining restoration in other fields of exploitation of these goods, but, man,! It is that, given its precedents, you will understand that we distrust, because I am new but I remember when you participated in that speculation process that dried up The Burgas in Ourense. Mr. Conde, we have memory, we also have recent memories of streptile failures, such as the Berán spa; millions of euros of invested public resources and it is no longer that the spa is practically destroyed inside, closed and inserviceable; is that the lack of planning was such that a spa designed to treat psoriasis, to dry the sun after taking the waters, is oriented in the opposite direction to the sun; that is, that is, the great display of the lack of rigour of the Government of the United States of Galicia. So we do not trust that this law, as it is sold in it, can assume a qualitative leap. And finally, in my remaining time, one last mention. It seems to us to be serious that this law once again leads to public participation in a strategic sector. It's a very important thing too, which is to ensure that this country's thermalism has to be a public right too, because what we can't afford is that a neighbor or neighbor in this country, because of income issues, has vetoed the thermalism if it ends up being something exclusively private, exclusively speculative. We have examples of public management models, we have examples of mixed management models, and therefore we ask that it deepen on that path and that it be guaranteed that what we can do with this law is really a qualitative step forward, ambitious and not just a joke so you can say that they do a lot for this country, that they legislate a lot and that they are taking steps forward, when really the only thing they're going to do is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u30	...a review of other laws and adding new uncertainties about a sector in which at this time, in addition to economic risks, we cannot introduce any more uncertainties. So, we expect you to have for once some dialogue, some reflection and a step back. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u31	Thank you. Joint Left Group, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, Counselor. One of the alternatives to conventional tourism is offered by spas or spas, both because of their intrinsic nature of health centres and because of the possibilities that present the contours where they are enclaved. In most European countries — and you quoted Budapest — the spas knew very well to conjugate this dual health-tourism activity, enriching it with new offers of leisure. We agree that Galicia is a European power. We didn't agree that you're underutilized. It seems necessary to dynamize and enhance our thermal wealth, forming playful areas that will make it possible to dignify the individual and collective existence of our country, recreating and expanding the possibilities of our resources beyond private economic development. This project minimizes and ignores the broad conception of water use, using the word "ludic" without considering the creative dimension of leisure, which brings us closer to democratic processes that allow the real configuration of social consciousness and the conformation of political and cultural contexts for its improvement from a modern perspective of the future. At no time is there any reference to thermalism as a space in which expression, creativity, art, archaeology, history, memory, recreation and leisure are part of the encounter, exchange and benefit for citizenship, for public use of the public good, to satisfy the collective needs of all the establishments of society, which transcend the limits of individual interests and which constitute a real playful space of cities and towns. Since the absence of a global vision of the heritage, it is understood that covering a jewel from our spas as the sauna of San Cibrao's iron age in the castle of Atalaia, in the Town Hall of Cervo, is ordered; this is inconceivable in any modern democratic society. The Left Joint Group is going to request the return of this bill, and we're going to go through ten points that we consider important. First, the title itself. Second, the object. Three, the purpose. Fourth, we'll explain why we believe that no specific legislation is needed. We'll also review the procedures. We stop on the two tracks that the project establishes and, with respect to its use, in the unacceptable concept of customary exclusivity. We will explain why we believe that the protective perimeters are not tools to grant monopolies and privileges. We will express our perplexity for the lack of prevalence that the municipalities have in this project. However, we will ask for the return. Well, why do we say in the first term that this law starts wrong? The title: Draft law on the regulation of the ludic use of thermal waters, why has this title not been fulfilled? Because playful use cannot be distinguished from therapeutic use, because thermal waters lead to and are inherent to therapeutic use; therapeutic use is inherent to the composition of these waters. In such a case, it should be called — if this prospers, that with most of it we cannot expect anything else that thrives — Law of the use of thermal waters in ludic and/or solely therapeutic establishments; the other one makes no sense. Second point. Object, object not reached. What should the object be? The water. And what happens when you individualize the institutions? Well, there may be legislative confusion, there is. Why? Because they don't complete other uses; they still don't regulate wells, holes, sources and springs of traditional use; they're left in a legislative limbo that causes legal deprotection. Three. What is the purpose of this bill? You enumerated and said what was the purpose. For many thermal villages, exploitation is an important economic engine, but this project is privatising and blatantly aimed at favoring private companies. Why would we say that? It's a regulation designed to favour private owners of bathing and other waters, to prevent competition and extend the legal blockage from which they enjoy activities other than those linked to health. What is your political stance? It's obvious. Already in the explanatory statement of this bill, thermality is highlighted as a property to defend the playful use of these waters, considering that they play a key role in the tourism industry. But not only. We've talked about why it's unacceptable. Because all the waters are public. Do you recognize this new law that all waters are public domain? Well, no, he doesn't recognize them. All the waters became public domain, although those who were private kept their ownership aside of the protection system. One of the most controversial measures was precisely the conversion into public domain of all waters: the surfaces — which were already — and the underground ones. If we talk about general principles, the public principle of thermal waters is unquestionable. In Law 5/1995, which you have named, you have facilitated your privatization in fact. This is a serious error in which this proposal recurs. It's unacceptable. All underground, mineral and thermal waters are public. There is a case before the Supreme Court in the judgement of 9 June 2003. And this proposal also contradicted the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2001 of 20 July, so the recast text of the Water Law is approved. It is said in Article 3: superficial continental waters, as well as renewable groundwaters, all integrated into the hydrological cycle, constitute a unitary resource subordinate to the general interest that is part of the state public domain as a hydraulic public domain. Let's keep going. Four. Why isn't there a need for legislation? Because if we consider what is the singularity of our waters, the economic potential of our thermal waters lies in their nature, the thermal mineral, since the artificially treated and hot water does not constitute the true singularity of Galicia. It is a true motor that needs specific legislation other than existing legislation on safety and hygienic-sanitary requirements. Do the spas need new legislation? No, no, no, no. We've already said, therapeutic uses are inherent to thermal water; therefore, that's its essence. Spas and other types of similar centers are already legislate and in operation. In any case, a priority should be given to the use of thermal water, ludic-energy spa, which are not reflected in this project. If there is a new law, what would it be necessary? For we believe that there should be a general Law of thermal and mineral waters and their uses, which encompasses and unifys the current legislation, including definitions, procedures, declarations, applications, control measures; otherwise, a new law is not needed; at most, it would be relevant to reformulate Law 5/1995. Another important question: can you mix the water? In the project it is not specified if in this type of thermal installations that try to regulate only thermal water can be used or similar to mix water of different nature, which would cause a change in the natural properties of water. When reading this project it is unclear whether it is necessary to use 100% thermal water or whether it is possible to mix water of another nature, modifying the parameters of the initial water. The heat reuse of the extracted tails should be primal before they are removed from public sanitation, either in their own installation or in adjacent buildings. A real study of the flow rates required for each type of installation should be carried out in order to avoid indiscriminate overexploitation — and there is a risk of overexploitation. Since the consumption by bathroom or pool is easily quantifiable, they should be published by the Administration itself. In respect of the proceedings, contradictions are detected. It's supposed to be an autonomous competition, but, as mining resources, the basic rules of procedure must be passed by the State, which is a contradiction. A desirable question would be that if this law were passed, which would be passed by the majority, it would regulate concepts from the perspective of the basic procedure for the declaration of minerals, as experts suggest. In point 7, what routes are established for use? Two routes are established: firstly, if the waters are born on private land, they are not such, they are all public; the use without a specific deadline, which remains the applicant's criterion. Second, the thirty-year concession, which can be extended to seventy-five. Is this reasonable? It's excessive. The logic would be for all to be granted by granting a time limit determined by the Administration. But his logic is not geared towards defending the interests of the common and favoring private business sources. It is unacceptable, Counsellor, the concept of customary exclusivity in the therapeutic exploitation of mineral or thermal waters, which are rejected, among other rules, by the Royal Decree of the Status of Bathing and Mine Law. If this concept could be claimed in the case of fountains, sinks, pools or wells, which remain in limbo. Are there any perimeters for the protection of the spas? No, Counselor. There are perimeters for the protection of aquifers. This is a very serious mistake. Article 7 is a true disincentive. Even though it has already been modified in the same privatization line, they blur the perimeters of bathing, a figure that does not exist in the current legislation, since — I insist — they are perimeters of protection for aquifers. This law establishes, among its purposes, the promotion of the economic and social development of the populations where the thermal waters flow, without the report of the Economic and Social Council. How? How? Tell us. How is it possible, moreover, that, in the case of artificial water captures within the perimeters, the norm establishes, also without smell, that it corresponds to the owner of the spa exclusive to the so-called playful use? This is very serious. An illegitimate benefit to mere private holders of use authorization; it is illegitimate. You can clearly see what their political priority is once again: favouring neighbouring companies, prejudicing the general interest. And what role do municipalities play, Counsellor? The rejection of 90% of the allegations, submitted by experts, political groups, associations and municipalities, is geared towards maintaining the ideological corpus of the norm, without a doubt — we insist again — to obtain private benefits. While recognizing that Law 5/1995 reform is an option, they prefer a separate regulation by the differentiated entity of the new use of the regulated establishment. We all know it, and we know it especially in Ourense — that it is the thermal capital of Galicia and, as I said well, the second, after Budapest — that it is very badly exploited, we had to be with an extraordinary dimension, but the plans worked very badly. The councils, Mr. Counsellor, are basic administrations, the closest to citizenship, and, however, an important part of the administrative and conforming structure that allowed development, both because of the channels of business and social initiatives; however, the councils should maintain greater presence in the new law, as one of the main actors, which is what they are. This project does not give the protagonists or prevalence to those who intend to take advantage of the waters of the municipalities, limiting the intended local development that justifies the new law and not recognizing its character as thermal villages. And well, that's why we asked for this law to be returned, but, well, in the replica I hope to have a chance also to talk about many other things that you have enumerated and of which we are absolutely against. I'll talk about it later, in the replica, so that I don't get over it in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Counselor. You have just announced that this bill will serve the development of the sector, but the reality is that this bill does not regulate anything that can serve the development of the sector, not addressing any of the fundamental aspects or counting on the main public and private actors that are necessary for its development. As you well said in your speech, Galicia is one of the richest European regions in mineral and thermal waters, the leading community in Spain as well as thermal supply. We have twenty-one balneariums and three balsams, more than 3,000 hotel squares, which is about 20% of national establishments. It receives about one hundred and fifty thousand users annually, and according to data from the Ministry of 2017 — which are the latest published — it is said that in Galicia, in the bathing sector, some eight hundred people are employed, of which 71.5 % are women. So it's a very important sector for Galicia. Most of the 300 springs and mineral-medicine waters in Galicia are thermal waters, and thermal waters are an increasingly demanding natural resource, from several aspects: the therapeutic and tourist aspect, but also the cultural and heritage. Since then, the thermal waters pose an opportunity for local development, investment generator and employment in the areas where they are found, highlighting their enclave in rural Galicia. The Socialists agree on a statement made in 2017 by the President of the Galician Council, in which he said that thermalism is strategic for Galicia; we agree. But the reality is that in this bill, thermalism is not treated as a strategic sector for Galicia. The Socialists tabled an amendment to the whole, with an express request for a return, based on various circumstances. The first of them is that this bill does not guarantee the basic principle of considering all water as a public asset. Article 132.2 of the Spanish Constitution determines that water, regardless of its classification and typology, is an integrated natural resource in the public domain. In the same sense, we have legislation sufficient to support this statement; there is the Constitutional Court judgement 227 of 88, or the Water Framework Directive. And it should also be recalled that Article 1.3 of the revised Water Act 2001 does not give rise to any doubt, since it literally collects: "Superficial continental waters, as well as renewable groundwaters, all integrated into the hydrological cycle, constitute a unitary resource subordinate to general interest, which is part of the state's public domain as a hydraulic public domain." As a result, mineral and thermal waters are water, Mr. Counselor. All the waters and minerals in Spain are public, except paradoxically, mineral and thermal waters, so a regulatory change must be addressed and treated within the legal regime of the waters, all of which are declared public. The second consideration that we socialists make to present this amendment of return is that this bill is within the context of an already existing autonomous norm and that it is also closely united in its formulation, as is Law 5/1995, of regulation of mineral, thermal, water and bathing waters of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. So the text of the bill that is brought here today by the debate reproduces abundant issues of this law already existing, and in the third section of Title II of the law the general conditions of use are settled. By the way, we don't know if this title has been fully developed during these twenty-four years of rule vigil. In the bill, we want to regulate the current ludicrous uses of the thermal waters that are already in operation, for which, according to the first transitional provision, twelve months for their application. We don't understand very well what that rush is now, after two and a half years ago. We socialists believe that no new law is necessary. We understand that it would be much more advisable to make an integral amendment to Law 5/1995, drawing up a single normative text adapted to the new reality of mineral and thermal waters of the 21st century; a single text which contemplates the different uses of mineral and thermal waters, in which mineral and thermal waters are regarded as public-owned goods, which are regulated in accordance with the regulation of waters, which take account of all sectors involved and which unite criteria, thereby providing the rule of greater legal certainty. By the way, Mr Counsellor, in accordance with the guidelines themselves adopted by the Council of Galicia, which say that, as far as possible in the same provision, a single object will be regulated, but in all its content, and proceeds to the aspects directly related to it. And he also says that this prevents the dispersion of regulations, because it complicates the planning and makes it difficult for the knowledge and location of the applicable legislation. So it seems more appropriate to address an amendment to this law and not make a new law that seems to be regulating something different than thermal and mineral waters. It is also worth noting that in this X legislation, in April 2017, the President of the Galician Union refers to the commitment to formulate this bill, although it was not part of the Galician board's policy plan for that year. In 2018 the Galician Union includes in the regulatory plan the reformulation of this law, but does not, however, address it. And in 2019, which doesn't even approve, or even report on the policy plan corresponding to the year 2019 -- by the way, which is a legal obligation -- this bill is suddenly abolished in an urgent way. It's the first bill dealt with by its councillor, by the Economic, Employment and Industry Council, during this X legislation, and by the way, it wasn't part of the popular party's electoral program either. It is also important to highlight different rather curious aspects in the processing of the law, and is that the Council of the Galician Council of January 25, 2018 approves the start of the processing of the bill, but it is that earlier, in 2017, a draft text of the law has already been submitted to the public exhibition; the truth is that it is a little curious. And then, between February 23, 2018 and April 16, of the same year, it is again exposed a draft law for its debate. The truth is, as my predecessor put it in the floor, Mrs. Noa Presas Berganginos, this looks a little bit like a joke. We also don't know what the justifications for this anomaly are, which we expect you to clarify in your intervention. [[Applause]] As for the documentation that approaches the bill, we also have to make a lot of observations. The report itself of the General Legal Counsel of Galicia shows that there are no reports that should accompany the legislative project for its processing, by the way, some of them you referred to, but that, as my predecessors also told them in the word, they do not appear in the file; we don't know why. It's also a bit of that transparency that the Galician Union always does honour, but reality always shows it's not transparent. We don't know very well that they have to hide with that non-existence, at least in the file, those reports that are referred to by the Juridical Counsel itself. Thus, the Indian Legal Counsel does not include the report of the Directorate-General for Planning and Budgets, but at the same time there are two economic memories made by the board: one in February 2019 and one in July of the same year. The first says that the bill does not entail an increase in public expenditure resulting from the payment of the canon provided for in the Water Act. And then, on July 30, that is, five months later, you tell us that the objective of this law is to regularize the ludicrous uses of pre-existing thermal waters within 12 months of their entry into force, as well as the processing of new applications, and now there is a cost. The truth is it makes an estimate of a cost for three years, of 76,000 euros of expenditure, and then about 78,000 dollars, which are, on the one hand, taxes and, on the other hand, sanctions. The truth is, it's rather curious how, in five months, they change the criteria of their own counseling. In any case, it is quite clear that this bill does not share the new or additional staffing, either in material means or in human resources. By the way, also, Counsellor, in this last economic memory that makes his counseling, it is evident the urgency of the law, which, as I said before, quite contrasts with those two and a half years that have passed since the President of the Council of Galicia announced that this law will be addressed. And so during that time, the truth is, they could have unearthed a little more the technique, given them access to many more actors who have implications and for those who are important to this law, and surely a much more appropriate text would come out of the current situation of the thermal waters in Galicia. I insist: we'd like to know what the reasons for this sudden emergency are. The Legal Counsel also tells us that the report of the Executive Committee for the Mining Development of the Galician Council of Economics and Competitiveness does not appear in the file, which is referred to in some of the allegations and to which you referred there is a bit in this forum, but of what we have no knowledge. It also indicates to us that the preliminary report of the Galician Economic and Social Council does not appear, which certainly seems rather curious to us. You, when you present the pre-projects given to know, find that the text would be analyzed by that entity. However, at the final stage of the processing, it is decided to amend this formulation and it is recommended that a report be submitted to justify that such a condition is no longer necessary, when the report of the General Legal Counsel of the Council of Galicia itself indicates that it is the competent body to process the preliminary draft on whether or not it is on socio-economic matters directly linked to the economic and social development of Galicia. And you know perfectly well that the Law on the Creation of the Economic and Social Council, in its Article 5.1.1.a) says that, among its functions, it is to issue orders, of a pre-emptive request, that they deal with draft laws which regulate socio-economic matters directly linked to the economic and social development of Galicia. So, Counsellor, please clarify: Does the Galician Council consider thermalism to be a strategic sector or not? Does the Galician Council consider that thermalism in Galicia has no economic implications and has no social implications? I would really like you, when you have your reply, to explain to us why, on the one hand, if it is considered strategic and if it is considered of social importance, and if it is considered of economic importance, and, on the other hand, as they always do, they seek that the Economic and Social Council, which has very determined and very clear functions, simply inform the Government of Galicia of the People's Party. You create organs that then use, as I said, according to suit. Look, more incongruence, Counselor. Law 5/1995 itself, in its Article 23 and 24, establishes the Advisory Board for Mineral Waters, Thermal Waters, Food and Balnear Establishments of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, an advisory board that neither informs nor advises, when it is intended as an advisory body. It's not working? Did they really create it? Or is it something else we've been accustomed to since the Galician board of ads that they advertise, that they write, but that then they don't exist?, that "fan that they do" that I continually remind you of. In 2011 was the Cluster of the Mineral Water and Thermal Water of Galicia, which was driven by the Galician Property Association and the Gallaga Association of Natural Mineral Water Packaging Companies, and which was also supported by the Directorate-General for Industry, Energy and Mines, which you know belongs to the Council of Economics, Employment and Industry, which you chair. It is a non-profit partnership, set up under the philosophy of business clusters, and its objective is to achieve the union, cooperation, integration and support of the conglomerate of companies and agents related to nuclear business activities linked to the mineral and thermal water resource operating in the territory of the Autonomous Community of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u35	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u36	I'm done, Mr. President. Nor does it appear that such an entity was involved in this bill. And neither does the report from the tourism department in Galicia, when, on regulated issues, it should be considered as a relevant element and should lead to the preparation of a study on its future impact. For my part, on this first turn, nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Now we greet the students and students of 1st bachelor's degree from the Liceo La Paz Plurilingual Center in Coruña. It's a large group, and we greet this first group; then another second group will come, but this first group will be welcomed. Also his teachers and escorts. Welcome to Parliament. Now, turn in favour or against the amendments of the non-amendant groups to fix their position. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u38	Good morning. A greeting also to all our visitors, to my fellow citizens of the city of Coruña, and to the rest of the guests. There were two alternatives to this situation in this sector which is already important and can potentially be very important for Galicia. There was the alternative of modifying the existing law of mineral, thermal and spa waters of Galicia to include the regulation of playful uses or to develop a specific law for these last uses. The two options could be valid, but experience, when we analyze laws covering differentiated activities where one has fewer requests, whether health care, technical or quality of services, usually -- and they have developed a single law -- has more to do with the least demands than the contrary. That's why it seems to us that there are two different approaches, precisely so that the situation is not given that within the same law less demanding actions, rather than improving their conditions, damage those of the most demanding facilities. The evas and inadequacies of the development of this bill are evident, and they have already been exposed in a fairly broad way by previous opposition spokesmen, but in the end the En Marea Group decided not to make a whole amendment, and this was done for two reasons. We consider that the immediate development possibilities of this sector are enormous and that from the arrival of the AVE next year, essentially to Ourense, the explosion of installations can be very large and would be very negative that it had been uncontrolled, and because all of this could damage Galicia's thermal supply, which currently enjoys great prestige, and all of its future possibilities. So if we think it's urgent to develop this bill. And with this offer to the Government and the majority group we would like this offer of dialogue, this offer of real participation, which has so far not been given, that had been truly answered with a development of all the procedures for the development of the law really wide and deep, as the bill needs, because it obviously has many evas. There were two alternatives: give it back, ask the Government to start working from scratch, or work here. Let's see if it's true that we can work here and achieve the objectives that are also intended for amendments to the whole, working in a real and participatory way in Parliament. And what do we think should work? Well, first -- it's an obvious theme -- water is that you don't have to put it into any law; thermal water, like all territorial waters, is a public good; you can put it but it would be repetitive. But being a public good is not enough. We must guarantee access to the uses and benefits of these waters to the entire population, regardless of their economic situation. And that's why we have to introduce elements into the law that guarantee this access to all population regardless of their economic potential. Then there is a need to enhance the development of public equipment in the law. Obviously, in the case of public lands or in those where there is no concentration of ownership, the municipalities must not only have the possibility but rather the priority to apply for the enabling title to develop public spaces of direct management by the municipalities themselves. Then much more — because it is too insufficient in law or almost non-existent — is the emphasis on sustainability and the defence of heritage and not focusing solely on tourist values. In addition, it must be made clear that sustainability and defence of heritage are in themselves one of the values most appreciated by people who wish to enjoy this kind of establishment. To also improve the health assurances of these establishments, which seems to us to be insufficiently collected in this law, and which do not end up being hotels with heated pools. This would go against the quality of supply and prestige that deserves our thermal capacity, which is unique in almost all Europe. Do not limit the use of play on perimeters for the protection of bathing facilities, to prevent monopolistic situations in many municipalities. In any case, of course, actions of a public nature should be out of these limitations. This article mentions that only dual use — i.e. the use of spa formats and the use of play uses — can only be — let us say — authorised if the holder is the same. But, Counselor, it's a song of this article; this is to deliver a use of land that can even be public to an existing private entity. Obviously — I think — I don't know how they put this article in the law, because, really, it's very strong!; i.e., to grant a concession to a private company, and in addition to names and surnames, because many of them are already established. I'd rather not qualify what this kind of article seems to me. And besides, of course, I don't think they would resist any legal initiative in their account. It is to limit competition, give concrete private initiatives and determine economic use. We couldn't believe it when we read this article. Then, of course, there is a need to increase municipal competences in the development and implementation of this law. It must be necessary — which are not collected in law — municipal reports qualifying for the socio-laboral impact report submitted by the company that wants access to the concession, so that it is truly suitable for a true socio-economic vertebration of the municipalities. It is clear — and it is now — that the thermal spaces — whether they are bathing or in this case, as this law develops, the play spaces — have an impact on the very strong municipalities, which goes far beyond what tourist services would be. It is not understandable that the municipalities cannot qualify for these reports so that they really help to reverse the social, economic, business and tourist development of these concessions. And I hope that during the process of law they understand that this is absolutely essential, regardless of who governs those councils. And then we also miss initiatives to promote local economy and local pemes and cooperatives. We are missing an economic memory of the development of the law that commits the Galician Union to develop incentives for the just development of this law and prevents these large corporate initiatives from being allowed access. Given the socio-economic importance and the vertebrate potential of the ludic-thermal facilities for the municipalities, the Galician Union should include in its annual budgets — and so should the law — incentives and help to facilitate access to the enabling titles of these facilities to local initiatives for pemes and cooperatives, which should also be private in those socio-economic reports that are needed to obtain the grants. Then, the vigency that marks the law for enabling titles seems totally excessive to us. We believe that normal should be for a period of thirty years, which can be extended to a maximum of fifty if, indeed, the activity is effectively maintained with levels of quality and optimal supply. Otherwise, we arrive at the current situation, in which there are truly inadequate, transnoited installations, without maintenance, but which continue to maintain the concession. We believe that thirty years to amortize the necessary investments is more than just a period of time, and — I say — extendable if, in fact, the operators of this concession do a proper job and that they really contribute prestige and jobs to this sector. This is the summary. There'd be a lot more to bring. So, the only thing we think about and expect with this offer of dialogue is that they don't do an emergency procedure that doesn't accept any kind of claim... No, this is what we're used to, too. [[Murmurs.]] So, let's hope that we don't have to think within a month or two that we're a few little bit of the capacity of dialogue between the People's Parliamentary Group and the Government of Galicia. If we think it's urgent, if we think it needs to be developed, if we think that there are probably a lot of new initiatives already in 2020, if we think this law needs to exist, but a much more perfected law in line with all the matters I've already commented on. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u39	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Romero Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you, ladies and gentlemen. Counselor. Representatives of the sector who are accompanying us from the rostrum, welcome to the Galician Parliament. Counsellor, first of all, I would like to thank you and all your team for the work they have done so that today we can begin the parliamentary process of a bill as demanding as this one, which regulates the playful use of thermal water in Galicia; a pioneering bill in Galicia, but not the first of the councillor, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, because in 2017 this council brought the law of business implementation. The memory is selective. [[Murmurs.]] If Galicia is a thermal reference in the state as a whole, within the community talking about thermalism is to think automatically about Ourense. That's why I would also like to thank my parliamentary group for assigning me the defence of this law; as a Member of the House, it is an honour; an honour because, from all its fields, we have been working for years to value the important heritage linked to the mineral-medicine waters and thermals that we count in our province. And there's the work done, ladies and gentlemen, both by the Council of Galicia and by the Parliament of Ourense, always with the collaboration of the sector, to sustainably take advantage of the thermal wealth of our country. The Plan Ourense, thermal province, with acts like social thermalism or sports thermalism, or the Raia thermal project. Spatial infrastructure already completed — like Cortegada and Caldas de Partavia — and others in the process — such as Punxín, Prexigueiro or Laias —, wine therapy in Leiro, Lobios ecocaladas are some of the examples. But also those appointed by the councillor, such as the performances carried out by the Plan Turismo and thermal health, contributing to the formation and support of the Chair of Medical Hydrology of the University of Santiago de Compostela; the Campus da Water—which so far removed Mrs. Presas saying from the good works being done there, indeed, thanks to the impulse of the Unity of Galicia—; the signage of the thermal villages; and even the first Greek eco-barry that promotes Galician Union also in the Ponte neighborhood of Ourense. The opposition groups come here to disqualify the action of the Government and sit as if they had to do things, but the truth and truth is that the only party that pushes, pushes and pushes thermalism in our country is the People's Party, and there are the facts. [[Applause]] If regulations and regulations were made as are being defended here by the ministers of the opposition — particularly the Left Joint Group and the Galego Nationalist Block — the bathing activity in our country would have no future, ladies and gentlemen. You see, they don't know the investment and the amount of restrictions and standards they have to meet to get a spa ahead; and it's not easy, and yet it's a lot of work done, by both public and private agents in the sector, but it's also a lot of what remains to be done. That's why every initiative aimed at the conservation, management and dynamisation of our thermal heritage is always welcome. And, no doubt, this bill that is before us today, Counselor, is one of those initiatives. Because of the abundance and adequacy of our thermal resources and this position in value by public and private authorities over all these years, there are numerous establishments in Galicia related to the use and fungal use of thermal waters. More and more people are the users of these institutions that trust their legality and the existence of hygienic-health guarantees. That is why it is necessary — and I insist, so requested — a legislative instrument that integrates a complete regulation of a sector as diverse and unique as is that of the playful use of thermal waters. Today, again, the Greek Government meets the demands of sectors that are strategic to Galicia. From this group we support the Government's decision to draw up an own policy project instead of amending the 1995 Bathing Act. We consider it more appropriate to process a specific provision, given the singularity of these ludicrous uses and also because of the innovative nature of this initiative. This text does not amend Law 5/1995, of mineral waters, thermal waters, springs and spas in Galicia, because there is no need to change a perfectly valid regulation for the development of the bathing sector and it has not shown at any time to be obsolete. What is done and demanded is to supplement the autonomous regulation by regulating the playful use of our thermal resources, thus covering the existing legal vacuum. For the first time, a clear difference will be established between the thermal waters intended for therapeutic and preventive purposes and those intended for ludicrous purposes, which will be regulated by this law; a law which, as the advisor said, is part of the fundamental objectives, such as ensuring the health and hygiene of these thermal uses and preventing the degradation of their quality and reducing the flow, and thus ensuring their sustainability, and protecting the heritage integrity of the environment, as well as dynamizing the areas where it flows, because it is inevitable that, if some type of thermal infrastructure is created in a territory, it will become dynamic, it will create jobs and, of course, it will move the economy. Matters such as the administrative procedure to grant the corresponding concessions or authorisations, the rights and obligations of holders of use with an inspection and sanction scheme are regulated. A simplified procedure is laid down for the regularization of pre-existing ludicrous uses, for which a period of one year has been granted since the final adoption of this, apart from the other matters which the adviser has already noted and which we will have time to talk about during the processing of the law. With regard to the drafting of this bill, in addition to the prior public consultation procedure, the hearing procedures were carried out to interested parties and the public information process; three separate procedures, ladies and gentlemen, all of them directed to public participation. Similarly, the report was processed by the Executive Committee on Mine Development of the Galego Competitiveness Council, which exercises, among its specific functions, reports on draft laws and draft regulations affecting the Greek mining sector, which previously corresponded to the Galician Mining Council. This committee is the body for participation and consultation in the specific area of mining and is composed of the Public Administration, the Mining Chamber, the Cluster of Mineral Water and Thermal in Galicia, trade unions and environmental organizations. All parties, ladies and gentlemen, all reported favourably, except for the environmental organisations, who abstained in the vote. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this law had no vote against the sectors involved. Do you think this is a little backup? Do you think that's a little consensus? How can you tell us that the sector is alien and distant to this rule when we have them here, they are following our parliamentary process, if they have made it available to the groups to clarify any doubts we might need? The only votes against which this new regulation is going to count will be those of the opposition groups of this House, an alien and distant opposition to Galician social reality, an opposition that does not think of Galicia, whose only object is to add a handful of votes in order to allow it to form a quadripartite. But why, ladies, for what? To fight between you and paralyze Galicia? For many good intentions they have, after listening to them, this sector would be paralyzed. As long as it's in our hands, we're not going to let anyone interfere with Galicia's progress. This bill is necessary, because there is a legal vacuum on this issue. Instead of working to cover it, they intend to use it to modify other laws, and that's their priority: to amend the 1995 Law and the Bipartite Mines Act itself, of which they are no longer so happy. The sustainable development of thermalism is not a priority. Neither Galicia nor Ourense can afford the luxury of rejecting this bill. That's why we're going to support this group. Finally, a final consideration of the possible ESC intervention. This draft law does not fit within the subjects in which the ESC's ruling is binding, since the fundamental objective of the law is the ludicrous use of thermal waters; it is not regulated from a developmental point of view of a new economic activity, not regulated from that point of view, but from the strictly administrative and management point of view, as I have noted earlier. I'm done, Mr. President. Thermalism is strategic for Galicia, it is strategic for Ourense, from the tourist, cultural, heritage and therapeutic perspective. This law will provide new guarantees for the sector, mainly in Galicia's tourist offer; new guarantees for the thermal spaces that are already running; new guarantees to boost thermal wells and new thermal spaces; and, in addition, guarantees for users, who will be sure that the waters in which they are bathing will be protected at the health level and accessibility and mobility level. For my part, thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Replica, amending groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u42	Well, as a matter of precedent, we shall vote favourably on amendments to the whole of the Joint Group of the Left and the Socialist Group and, of course, we shall keep to the vote our own. Because I insist: since the BNG we haven't even come in to discuss the need to regulate the play and move on that path, but of course what we're not worth is this formula, no matter what we think it was best to harmonise the entire legal framework so as not to generate distortions. The question is that what's offered, what's put on the table, is not the least of its sustainability, neither from a technical or legal point of view, nor from the point of view of the perspective that this country needs for development. Of course it's not this way, and then we'll try to improve it as far as possible through partial amendments, but the fact is that the starting point is quite frankly difficult. In reply to several questions that came out here, for, Mrs. Romero, what I have to tell you is that, as an honourable Member also elected by the constituency of Ourense, what causes me a tremendous sadness is to see what the People's Party offers in this law, see what it offers, because it only offers, once again, to use the interior of this country and the most impoverished areas and the most impoverished areas only as a cliché, only as a headline, because there is neither in this project nor a single budgeted proposal, there is in this project any single proposal with measuring and objective to see whether or not it works or not to help develop those parts of the territory; there is not a single rigorous proposal in that sense, nor a single one. So how will this law help develop the most impoverished areas of this country? By divine inspiration? By a dogma of faith? The same faith dogma we were asked for for the thermal plan? The same dogma of faith that made more than 6,000 people come down from the Urense population census on legislation, more than twenty-six thousand if we look since they got to the government? [[Applause]] It's just that, look, dogmas of faith, air and fresh water don't live alone in this country, gentlemen of the People's Party; we need something else. And the fact is that this law does not actually pass that procedure from the ESC, because it would not. Because what they don't want is to hear what the ESC would have to say. And if they talk so much about this other report, they bring this law processing file. I hope that during partial amendments will arrive. The point is, you lose opportunities in this law. They don't approach cold waters, for example. We don't have mineral-medicine waters in our country that are cold and that could be used for playful uses? Here's one of the issues that demonstrates how little rigour this project has worked on. We're not talking about the industrial aspect. I insist: the People's Party Member spoke about the industrial aspect, the Economic, Employment and Industry Councilman spoke about the industrial aspect, but in the legal framework they forgot that word. I mean, they don't even even put that in the legal text itself as an excuse for self-justification, because they know that this is really a partial project, isolated from a global conception of economic development or the thermalism of this country. The same with regard to heritage, the same with regard to social activity, the same with regard to water as a public good, the same with regard to the right we should give to citizenship and recognize in this legal framework to also use these ludicrous and thermal resources, because I say that it will not be all 100 per cent of private business, which will have to open the way to which this is also guaranteed for the peoples of the territory. I am very proud that in Ourense if you have achieved social consensus — although it seems insufficient — so that there are spas of free use. I think that's a step forward and that's a path we should bet on. We've reached consensus on that, too, although it's frankly difficult with the history of the People's Party, with regard to thermalism in Ourense. But, of course, we have a clear conscience and for me it is a pride to come here to intervene on behalf of the Galego Nationalist Block, because thanks to Greek nationalism, a ball has stopped in the Burgas Garden. That's why we have an asset of cultural interest recognized in the Burgas. [[Applause]] Another thing is that you have the BIC plan of the Burgundy in a drawer or you're waiting for it -- the mayor of Ourense said that they couldn't go on with the PXOM because you had to clean up some balls -- so, well, another thing is that they're now working on another way, but at least we have a relatively shielded frame to deal with these issues. In short, there are many of the issues that we could stop in. We insist that this project should be returned to the Government so that they present something serious, something planned, and that it does not put at risk the thermal map that we have on the table, because we don't want it to end up in a distortion. You yourself are not able to clarify which is the way to harmonise therapeutic uses with ludicrous uses. We can't go to a 100-per-cent divorce model, because, to begin with, many of the fun uses are going to be in exploits that are already therapeutic. This looks like a workaround, but the truth is that that's the reality we have. We are very concerned and will do our best in the process of partial amendments so that this law, instead of assuming a step forward, instead of assuming clarification, may take a step back. And, of course, we understand that at the moment our country cannot afford more risks or more steps behind, or in particular in the matter of thermalism, but generally not in any aspect of economic development. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Joint Left Group, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u44	I think Einstein was right when he said: If you understand the theory of relativity, you can explain it to a child or a 5-year-old. I think so. We speak clearly, we speak clearly of our vision of this law. This law is little part of it, it has little legal security, it is unnecessary. We argue, explain why. There are no relevant reports on the impact on the economy, employability or the same tourist development. They rejected 90% of the suggestions; yes, from the university; yes, from associations; yes, from municipalities, such as Cuntis or the Council of Ourense itself; yes, they accepted one of Ourenses in the Common, who spoke precisely of the need for health control; that was correct. But they eliminate the priorities of the demands for bathing. We insist again on the key to the matter: one cannot speak of playful use, one cannot; one can not use water in playful establishments or other institutions. This is a vital nuance. On the other hand, Counselor, I would like to speak of four things a short time ago, but you spoke of concessions. Reports from six or more advisors are required to grant authorisations. All right, there's a lot of cross-section, of the municipalities themselves, reports are binding and not. But just at compatibility level it is not indicated how compatibility is to be performed or even how compatibility is to be demanded. Errors to many. If we met the definitions — we are from Ourense three of the rapporteurs of this law — according to the definitions, neither The Burges, nor The Painter nor the Prayer would enter into this definition; a new mistake. Sorry, I can't help it. With respect to the ecobarrio, it's unfortunate to talk about the ecobarrio. Why? Because in March 2018 the mayor of Ourense — who was also a councilman in this Parliament, mayor of the only seven major cities in Greece who could not approve the budgets, in four years he was unable to present the budgets — announced to President Feijóo the project of the bridge eco-barrio, which would be ready — he said — in 2020, after an investment of 20 million euros. Today, we're working on budgets, they've charged 140,000 euros autonomics for this project. Do you think, in that pact of the devil that they made with the mayor of Ourense to maintain the deputy, the Council of Ourense will bring the rest of the million for this project to go ahead? And, speaking of ecobarry, we're sure everything will stay in greenwashing — sorry, they're French, I'm sure I say it horrible, but, translated, it's a green-faced wash. This is intolerable, that the ecobarium is brought here, as a model of what, and Ourense's opposition doesn't even have that project. We seem to know from the press that there will be state and European funding. They announced in May the opening of an office to advise the neighbors and the adjudicatory was Energylab. Well, it's not open. So, sorry, Counselor, but he talks about concessions, and there are contradictions. We're talking about ecobarry, and it doesn't make sense. We're talking about compatibility, and the requirements are missing. We're talking about definitions, and there's no definition. You can't talk about fun water use, you can't. You can talk about taking advantage of water in playful establishments, and that's obvious. We could say more things, but we don't have much time. Of course the exclusion of the municipalities, the exclusion of cooperativeism projects, the exclusion of projects that can dynamize the city and promote the well-being of citizenship, are absent. We insist that the public benefit of a public good must be linked to a serious, rigorous and really necessary project, and this is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Now we also welcome what would be the second group of pupils and students from the Liceo La Paz Plurilingual Center in the Coruña, who are visiting Parliament today. And now you have the floor, by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. I also want to take this opportunity to greet all the people who accompany us today in this plenary session. I insist, Mrs. Romero: it's the first bill dealt with by the Council. What you allude to was treated as a bill by the People's Party. So I ratify myself in my words. [[Applause]] In fact, we are already used to getting Members of the People's Party to go out to this forum to applaud the advertising and propaganda announcements that we have been accustomed to by the Government of Galicia. The Councillor and the honourable Member of the People's Party leave this forum to highlight the economic and social importance of Galician thermalism and at the same time justify the absence of a report from the Galician Economic and Social Council, among which fundamental functions is to report precisely on the preliminary draft laws which are of economic and social importance in Galicia. Those are always their own inconsistencies. By the way, Mrs. Romero, you also announce here reports that do appear, as if it were an extra. The truth is, why doesn't he refer to what we referred to the opposition, who are the ones that don't appear and who had to appear on this file? Because that's the ejaculation. That those who have to show up aren't extras, that's what they've had to do since then in Galicia. And finally, too, Mrs. Romero, you talk about the sectors involved as if they were just the owners of the spas. No, there are many more actors involved here. Look, I'm going to continue with my initial exhibition, which didn't give me time, and I also told you that there isn't a report from the Tourism Department, but that there isn't a plan for tourism related to mineral and thermal water that takes into account the sector, the different administrations (local and autonomic) and users. And by the way, Mr. Counsellor, explain to me why, if a pincha on the website of the Galician Union, a plan of thermal tourism appears in Galicia, but really in the disengageable, though such pictures appear, what appears is a plan referring to the province of Ourense and drawn up by the Provincial Deputation of Ourense. You mean the Galician Union doesn't have its own plan? I'd like to know, and if you don't, I'd also like to know what the reasons are and if you think at some point about this subject, that you initially said it was very important, but that the truth we see that demonstrations are not so important for your advice. Counsellor, there is also no report by the Galician Waters, with direct powers and fully related to this bill. We'd also like you to answer us. You see, you vote on a bill that has been handed over to fifty-six entities, and paradoxically they haven't sent it to the provincial deputies, when, in addition, the House of Ourense expresses its keen interest in this project. A little curious. You'll also have a chance to answer me. And it's also very low on the degree of acceptance of the allegations made. Well, we are going to vote in favour of the other amendments to the whole tabled by the other two opposition political groups, and I am going to insist on those aspects of the amendment we tabled. We believe that this bill reflects a very narrow and narrow vision of a sector that tries to regulate. It does not collect fundamental materials such as tourism, the hydrological dimension, the health framework, the framework for well-being or the drive of the rural environment. They could take advantage, because that can also be a very important strategic sector, for that rural population fixation, which we all worry about, but the Galician Union is only concerned with announcing it, never to put real measures to reverse this situation. It also does not contribute to promoting economic and social development for Galicia, especially in those places where thermal waters are formed, nor does it provide for action measures or programmes in this regard. They did not count on the necessary involvement of Galician spa councils, which are not reflected in the text of their various existing problems and for which no solution is offered. The thermal villages are not taken into account, as if they were taken into account, and if they should be taken into account -- it's not a criticism but just a comparison that they can take into account -- the villages through Santiago's Way. Well, they should also take into account the thermal villages, to help them in collaboration with their economic and social development and, as I said before, for their population fixation. Nor are parameters precisely defined in this bill to guarantee the quality of water as well as the means to control it. And finally, tell him it contains a controversial regulation on concessions. Well, we're waiting for partial amendments. We, as always, our group will make amendments that will be with the idea of building for you to take that tending hand and improve this legal text, because it will benefit all the men and women of Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Debate on the proposal for a law, on a popular initiative, on measures for the new management of hydroelectric leaps and uses in the Autonomous Community of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u48	They accompany Mr. White Parga, who comes now. [[Mr. White Parga goes up to the panel of speakers.]] For the presentation and defense of the bill, you have the word Mr. Carlos Fernando Branco Parga, for a time of fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u49	Good morning, everyone, ladies and gentlemen. Three years ago, the union organization that I represent here today, the IGC, introduced an ILP to this very Greek Parliament that had to do with energy; it was in May 2016 and it was taken into consideration. That ILP has the sad record of being the ILP that most of the time it had been processed in this Parliament; it even changed from lawmaking in its processing; what came out of that ILP had nothing to do with what it came in here and what it proposed to the Glaga Inter-union Confederation. In any case, that ILP was literally talking about the participation of the Galician board directly through joint ventures for the public use of all energy resources as well as all existing production, distribution and transport facilities in Galicia. Products and work today again we're here presenting a popular legislative initiative, but there's a difference in May 2016, when we introduce it, today. So in the debate, in a long process, as I said, it was said that in the state there could be no different electric tariffs, we had to have a single electric tariff, as that gentleman said they were going to move now in 1951. But there's a difference: in this month where we're going, in this receipt that comes to us, we're going to pay the most expensive light in the whole state, through what are called tariff territorial supplements. Then, if there could be different rates; in fact, there would be. [[Applause]] And what does that different rate mean for Galicia, because often in the media we see quantifications of average bill estimates. Let's go to the global data, which is what matters. Galicia this year will have to pay, the difference between other autonomous communities, 38 million euros more, and Euskadi, zero; we, 38 million, and Basquedi, zero. Madrid, State capital, 2.4 million euros. Then there are different rates. But what IGC proposed is totally contrary: they penalize the one who produces, the one who exports and has the consequences of that production settled in the country. That's why it's done today more than ever before. As it is preceptive, thirteen thousand signatures were collected and widely complied with Galicia's popular initiative law. In ILP's explanatory statement we understand that it is perfectly clear, meridianly clear, what we propose. And, curiously, this debate, purely by chance, has something to do with the debate you had, ladies and gentlemen, in the previous debate, about the thermal waters of Galicia, it has to do with the use of water as a public use. And here we find the first important element of this initiative. The difference in other situations, I'm going to put one, in particular, which is very pedagogical, from our point of view: the theme of the AP-9 motorway, which, after many social claims, many political and social debates, here in Parliament, is definitely assumed unanimously that one day AP-9 has to be from the Greeks and the Greeks and not from Audasa. It wasn't timeless, it wasn't timeless, neither was it jobless. However, in the matter of water, which is a public good, it is not socialized in the public opinion that everything that is done in a river is public. In general, when we talk about the Pearls, let's put a name on it: The Pearls of... turnaround company. Bellesar from... shift company. No, no, that's not it. The Pearls, Bellesar and the rest are from the Greeks and the Greeks. And that's not internalized or socialized. Everything you do in a river is public. And if you keep the mistake, it's because, in fact — and then we'll talk about it — there are concessions from the 19th century without getting back. Of course, if we keep it in time, we end up believing that the Pearls are from Naturgy; if we follow this way, if we never act, because we believe that the surname is true; it has a surname and it's from Naturgy, but that's not so. The first thing we would have to address is the knowledge of concessions, which is certainly chaotic, and, curiously, in the two Greek organisms that have to do with the subject, not always coincidentally. We have, for example, concessions from the 1895 hydropower plant; Feixa I, of 1898; Almofrei, of 1898; Bridge do Inferno, of 1899; and small hydraulics and large hydraulics: Tambre I, of 1927; Sequeiros, of 1952, etc., etc., etc. etc. Prolonged concessions in time that make them socially think they're private companies, and that's the big mistake. These concessions, the difference between wind farms which are administrative authorisations, are a procedure which is investment-concession. I mean, the public administration can do an act, by setting an example, the coffee shop of this parliament, and it leads to a concession, but the work has been done by Parliament. The process of hydraulics is investment-concession; it's given to a private company, which is the one making the investment, and it's given a time to recover that investment and some benefits. So where does the problem lie? That he never recovers. Galicia has no hydraulic power station recovered today, and I just read the power stations of 1895, 1898 and ahead. In addition, with no less curiosity at all this time: Galicia has one hundred sixty-six hydraulic power stations, forty-five of them large hydraulic power plants, the other mini-hydraulic ones, mostly for the production of electricity; but while the concession remains the same over time, the electric market has changed, and has changed a lot. When concessions were made, the remuneration of hydroelectric production was fixed in what was then called "the stable legal framework", which differentiated energy sources, and they all had different costs. It didn't pay the same water as coal, or fuel, or nuclear. Each had a pay fixed by the Government. In 1997, the first major law in the current electricity sector was adopted — we now have one of 2013 but it maintains the same criteria — and it is in 1997 when the big change is made, that all sources of electricity are charged equal in the same time band but at the price of the highest cost that is being entered into the system at that time, which is called the "marginalist market" or "pool". That is, from 1997 onwards, the production of water covers as much as natural gas, or as much as coal, or as any other source, but the costs of production are totally different, which is what we call "heap benefits from the sky." It means there are some technologies, including hydraulics, which are being over-retrieved as the most expensive technology at the moment. From there, hydraulics are beginning to have unabated benefits. It's better to have a hydraulic than to play a lottery for you! But they don't change concessions, we follow the same concessions, and what took the concession, hyperbenefits. That one day I'd have to change! It's not a minor topic for Galicia. Galicia has almost four thousand megawatts, 3,700 megawatts of installed power; it's no smaller. It's a higher production, it's 23 percent of the state, almost a quarter of the hydraulic production in a normal year -- although hydraulic production varies according to the hydrological years. An approximate calculation of production in recent decades states that 23 percent — almost twenty-four percent — of state hydraulic production is Greek. He has no smaller weight. What IGC proposes, the Galega Inter-union Confederation, is clear in the explanatory statement, is clear in the text. We also want you to see that we're not saying things that come from Mars. In the Spanish State, in the Perineos, four hydraulic power stations were rescued by which she was the president of the Ebro Hydrographic Conca: the Pueyo de Jaca; the Barrosa, in Bielsa, the Field Assistant and the Lucky-Cinqueta. But not only were they rescued — that soon they were paralyzed, or were rescued, or they did not continue to rescue because there was a change in the government of the state and paralyzed these actions; it was not clear to the Government of the State what they wanted to do — but there was one thing in the concessionary clauses that had never been used: 25 percent of production was for the state — from its source — and never had been used. I don't know if that exists in the Greek concessionary clauses, because it's very difficult to know how the theme of the Greek concessions is administratively: with paper of calculus, something that doesn't appear, without scanning, etc. A little chaos! That 25%, which had never been used, demanded, won sentences, and Ebro's Hydrographic Conca won the electricity millions of euros of recovery they never paid. That 25% of production, in strategic reserve for the state, was at cost. And they not only rescue, but they make agreements with the surrounding municipalities, with Panticosa, Bielsa and others, so that they have a differentiated and cheaper tariff price. So there may be different rates, what we have to have is political will. And I don't know if you ever spoke of Andorra la Vella in this plenary session, Mr. President, who is the oldest in the house — yesterday I was with another Member who was the oldest in this house and I would like to remind you... Mr. Rego. [[The President said words that were not understood.]] There would be a lot of talk here about Andorra la Vella. [[Murmurs.]] Everyone knows it: tourism, commerce and, some less, the subject of banks. The story of Andorra la Vella, if it goes a hundred years ago, is as follows: five thousand inhabitants, forgotten territory, two principalities, that of France — they have now progressed and have a republic — and that of His own Urgell, with the princes. It was an abandoned territory and a foreign company came to set up a hydraulic power plant. What are you asking of the Andorrans? Price for the Andorrans: light at cost and making roads, which they didn't have. Yes, indeed! They understand that at that time -- what we see today from Andorra is trade, it's tourism, and that five thousand inhabitants and today it goes from eighty thousand; by the way, a lot of Greek communities, because in the constructions of that center worked a lot of Greek labor, that one day they would also have to study Welsh emigration in many places -- their development is born from that hydraulic center, because, even if they give it the price of cost, there were five thousand inhabitants and they had almost no appliances to consume. For them the singular was to make the roads, to give life to the territory. If you go there today, that hydraulic power station is public, you've been rescued. So they were surpluses, and today they're tremendously undernourished, they buy energy in France and in the Spanish state, for economic development. This is Galicia and the hydroelectric installations in Galicia: in blue, the large hydraulic and green, the mini-hydraulic. [[Mr. White Parga shows the House a map of Galician hydroelectric installations.]] If we add wind parks, thermal parks, gas lines and evacuation lines to this plan, we'll see that a very significant part of the territory of Galicia is marked by electrical production. Benefit to Galicia, for now, zero. What do you understand about this initiative? To review the concessions one by one, to know why if they were given extensions, to know how they are... and there is no need to expropriate anything, nothing to break! It ends the concession and we already have the instrument created, which is a public enterprise, the power to be a needy Greek public enterprise, or mixed - that is what you will decide in Parliament - a company that rescues these properties, which must be delivered in a perfect state of use, which is what the regulations say, and which reverses energy for the use of the Greek people and for their benefit. At this particular moment: electrointensive and thermal closure. The German Government has the possibility of having a tool in time that is not immediate. We have to wait until concessions are completed; some are already finished, by the way. It creates that instrument and puts energy, or a public good like water, renewable, into the service of the economy of the Greek people. It's simple! It doesn't break anything, it doesn't force anything, it doesn't go against ideological positions that they don't want to expropriate. It's going back to the public what's always been public. It is in your hands, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u50	Thank you, Mr. White Parga. You can accompany us from that scene. Take him to that bench, please. We turn around the parliamentary groups. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u51	Good morning to all and to all. Thanks to the IGC spokesperson, who made the presentation of this proposal for a popular initiative law. Obviously, we are going to vote in favour of taking this proposal into consideration because, for three years now, In Marea has been presenting repeatedly non-law proposals, initiatives of all kinds, interpellations to develop these processes of reversal to the public of expired hydroelectric power stations or about to expire. So even though our proposals in many cases go far beyond those included in this bill, during the debate of the law you could incorporate everything we've been defending for a long time. In Galicia, of the one hundred and forty-eight farms currently in service, there are around fifteen already expired or in an immediate expiry period, and most of them are mini-centres. There was a case of a large power station whose exploitation expired in 2009, but the Socialist Government, Mr. Zapatero, decided to extend the concession for another 50 years, based on the strategy that is taking most of the companies in the electric oligopolie to achieve expansion of the maximum concession periods. This simply consists of making small changes in farms, and with that argument asking for huge increases; in the case of the Pearls, for example, 50 years old. The tactic is always the same: a central center of about 200 megawatts is being improved, or a third, fourth or fifth group, at best of 10 megawatts, and with that small investment, which often does not reach five percent of the installed power of the power plant, they are asked for another thirty, fifty or even seventy-five years more of exploitation. This is totally intolerable. That's why it's essential to develop legal elements and reverse procedures that make it clear that these types of situations will not happen and that the centrals, when they arrive at their expiry, must pass on to exploitation by the public; especially to reverse the areas where they are established, those disadvantages and all those who have to suffer the expropriation of land, the flood of valleys, etc., in order to get real economic and social development out in the areas involved. There are already power stations — specifically, in Galicia there are nine now — which have already expired; some of them obviously from the Mino-Sil Confederation, such as Enviande, Castro Caldelas, Castadón-Hervideiro, Vilachán and Cabo. But also in Galicia-Costa, with exclusive competence of the Galician Union, such as the Fervenzas, the Beso River, the Güimil River, the Lamb, and the Castile Hydraulic Central, the Mandeo River. They are small mini-hydraulics, but, for example, that of Güimil, a 3.5 megawatt power plant, with an average annual capacity of about 4,000-5,000 hours of use, the production of this power plant would give to supply electricity, through a comarcal entity managing that energy, the whole county and all the neighbouring municipalities. We are talking about approximately fifteen thousand megawatts/hours per year, between 10,000 and 15,000 depending on the years, which would serve as a basis for the creation of a local energy cooperative; that could have participation of the Galician Union, participation of the council and participation, even of cooperatives, companies and local electricity traders, mainly public. And this is one of the little ones! The point that we need to be prepared not to arrive at the day — as is happening in many parts of Galicia and also in the rest of the state — is that if there is not all legislation, because there is not a whole series of administrative arrangements to take over the management of these plants, the concessionary companies continue to exploit them indefinitely, benefiting from millionaire income. I say, you must be prepared, and especially because in 2024 a new milestone as it was on the day of the Pearls. And besides this is a strategic and extraordinary milestone for the development of the energy transition in Galicia, as is the expiring entry of the great central Conchas. In addition, it is a central that will be the lower glass of the largest pumping plant in the entire territory of the Spanish State, in which there will have to be very important performances; also medium-environmental, due to the nefarious situation of the presence of cyanobacteria in the Conchas reservoir, where the environment will not know whether or not it will be done, but you should see the photos of the last week of the Conchas reservoir to see the situation you are in. When it becomes transvated, all of this would be transmitted to the top glass basin at the center of the hall. Why do I say you have to start working now? Because these procedures, even though the law suggests that they have to be developed in 18 months, they've usually been years, precisely because they don't have the instruments developed. The presence of public management in the Conchas center, and a proportional participation in the pumping of Conchas-Salas, could be crucial for better management of wind farms of cooperative exploitation, of exploitation by the municipalities; that is, it could be an essential part of the management of the energy transition in Galicia. That's why it's absolutely essential to develop what the ILP is proposing and a lot more. I mean, you have to fully develop the tools for the management of these packages to become... in the case of the big ones, of course, you will have to participate in the Galician Union, but the mini and microhydraulics could be directly exploited. They are fully automated power stations — many of them — and with a minimum need for exploitation, so it could be developed by small retailers and local producers. On the other day, when we presented this same matter to the Committee on Industry and Energy, the representative of the waters of Galicia who came to answer came to us and said: How? Do you want to take over the management of the Cochas plant? But do you know what the management of a power plant is like? Well, you see, the lady who came here on behalf of the waters of Galicia — which I don't remember her name, I apologize — didn't read my resume. Obviously, the management of this type of power plant is complex. But not because it's complex is more effective -- let's say -- the management they're doing right now is private companies than what could be done from the public. Endesa has managed nuclear power plants, thermal power plants and hydraulic power plants being a public company with much more efficiency for the public than it is currently having as a private company. Well, this is evidence and that's why, I say, we're going to vote in favour of the ILP. And we hope that this key issue will be given the opportunity for the management of the energy transition in Galicia to be welcomed in a positive way by all groups and we can start talking about what is needed. Because we'll probably talk about the bridge problem during the morning too. Bridge problems are also being solved with initiatives like this, with initiatives that allow the development of an ecological transition and an energy transition that has been piloted from the public. That's the future. The future is not what the People's Party proposes tomorrow, for example: that a power plant which is one of Europe's 20 most contaminants and which provides 30% of the CO2 it emits in Galicia will continue to exist until 2045. These are unrealistic proposals. The reality is this, the reality is the ecological transition, the energy transition. And water management, which is a public good, is the first step to be ready for this whole transition, which has to start now, I don't say today, but it had to start ten years or twelve years ago, when the Meirama and the Bridge mines were finished. We're late, but at least we don't put any obstacle to further progress on this path. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Casal. You have the floor for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u53	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all, and also to the people who accompany us. First of all, I would like to thank on behalf of the Galego Nationalist Block at the Interunion Confederation for the momentum of this initiative and its strong defence of the rights of the working class in Galicia and this country; a defence which, as it is shown today, is not only reactive, when needed, but also proactive, by placing in the public debate and also in the political debate fundamental issues and alternatives. [[Applause]] Since the BNG we have fully subscribed to the intervention of the White Companion and also to the statement of reasons for this initiative. And we shall vote in favour for a number of reasons. We share to 100 percent that we must understand water and also energy as a basic asset, as a public right, as a public service, and not as a speculative good in which state policies, both of the People's Party and of the Socialist Party, have transformed it into an increasingly luxurious product every day. We have, or we should have, all and all of us here elected by the Greek people the responsibility of turning this energy generation into an impetus to economic and social development; and more so at a time when our country is going through a lot of uncertainties, where we have companies closing down for the price of light, or 2 out of every 3 Greeks at risk of social exclusion and having the bill of light as a challenge. In addition, we share the last thought we have to have instruments. We bet Galicia has instruments, it has voices, it has votes and even vetoes in the design of the energy model of Galicia of the 21st century. And what it's about now is itself, in the inevitable power model change that we're going to have to face all of us, we're going to get out winning or we're going to get out again losing. That is why we must act on proposals like this — which we invite the Government of Greece and the Members of the People's Party to approve. Because the paralysis of this last decade has already seen what led us to this industrial downturn, that demographic downturn and a constant loss of opportunity. You have to turn it around, and for that it is essential that the Administration assume a leadership role. I know they would like to rule a neighboring association more than a country, but you have the responsibility to rule this country, and therefore we invite them to act and to try something new. We understand that today we can push an initiative that, without assuming "the assault on the winter palace", could assume a very important step forward. We understand that it would also help to remedy a debt to our country, a debt to the present and to the future, but also a historical debt. I'd like to think about it, because it's not indifferent to how we got to this point, how we came to this preponderance of the hydraulic sector in our country. And the truth is, we've been debating here many times about how Galicia's role as the state's energy reserve was an imposed role, a role on which the Greek public authorities had no chance to decide. The truth is it has led us to a model that is contrary to our interests, both in class and in country, and we have to turn it around. I want to reflect on how this producer role has not only been imposed on hydraulics — although, as it has already been here in the debate, it is the hen of the golden eggs and today it has more than proven benefits — but it must be taken into account that we have been with power stations for more than a hundred years. Some of them came out here. We could also talk about Ezarus — before 1910 — that today is the subject of repeated speculation to put the whole Coast of Death in check. We could talk about a lot more that they get private profits today from something that was born as a public. But the truth is that we must bear in mind that the trigger of Galicia as a hydraulic producer was precisely during franchise; that is, it is no longer just a model of colonial exploitation, but a dictatorial one. This must also be remembered in all its letters, because, of the 45 large hydraulic power stations in our country, more than 70% are children of a dictatorship. And this was neither compensated nor chosen by the Greek people nor, of course, repaired. And we must remember. I would like to remind you, for example — as a paradigmatic example — of what happened with Belesar's encouragement. It was Mr. Barrie de la Maza, future count of Fenosa and also the winner of the palace of Meirás, who announced his construction in a speech in Vigo in 1949. In that speech he pointed out that, when Mr. Francisco Franco came to spend his summers in Galicia, "when he comes to the Peace of Meirás to rest, his first question is about how Galicia's hydroelectric works are going, I pay attention to everything that means progress and well-being." Selective progress and well-being for the oligarchies of the regime, but of course not for the Greek people, neither yesterday nor today. [[Applause]] What happened in Bellesar with the flood of entire populations of Portomarín, Taboada, Chantada, Savinjao, Paramo, Guntín, etc., is what happened in so many other coronations of our country. It was against popular will and in exchange for unreasonable claims and ridiculous compensation. And we could talk about many other parts of the territory, like Castrelo de Mine, for example, of that which Otero Pedrayo nicknamed as "hydroelectric feudalism." Or we could also talk, in more recent times, but with collections of franchise, of how the neighbors and neighbors of Acredo in the 1990s saw how they were separated from their houses to build the charm of Lindoso and give benefits also to Portugal, something that remained, for those we do not have so many years, portrayed in The drowned Days, in that fantastic documentary by Caesar Souto and Luís Avilés. This is our story. And we think it's fair to remember her here today. Because giving this ILP forward would be an exercise of economic responsibility, it would be an exercise of responsibility with water management, it would be an exercise of social responsibility, but it would also be an exercise of just democratic memory and a debt with our past. But it's, above all, something that has a responsibility for the future. He said it at first and I keep insisting that we have to get out of the paralysis of the last decade, and even more so when that review of the energy model, which comes to us, will bring a lot of problems to our country. Even more so when we've lived the consequences that the government of Nuñez Feijóo had renounced public participation in key sectors like wind, which cost us more than three million in compensations since the public era and which also cost us the paralysis of the sector. Even more so, when all the paths they took us, they assume a retreat. It came out here as it was manipulated and if it perverted that law by a Welsh electric tariff, which you only approved by electoral strategy, and that today we have this €38 million tariff that we are going to pay for the Greeks and the Greeks precisely because the People's Party is thinking about managing a community of neighbors and not a country. So this is not a new theme. In this respect we have competences, we have possibilities and we have the ability to do something different. And today we invite the People's Party to take a step forward in this direction. Because the truth is that this subject is not new, this subject is not new, but what would be new is that the People's Party had done something more than look at the air. Because already in June 2016 the BNG asked in this Parliament about this issue to Galician Waters, and already at the last plenary session of the previous legislation was adopted an initiative on this matter. In this legislation we repeat it again. The only constant we have is that concessions have expired during this time. We can set examples, such as Bridge Hell, Portochao, Date, Güimil, Castellana, Fervenzas, etc. And we don't know what the Galician Union does. Besides looking into the air, he says it's all very complicated and you have to go on a case-by-case basis. Now, let's go on a case by case, but let's go on a final horizon, not the horizon of waiting for time to pass, and that the electricians, who then our colleagues go to, are saved and have these benefits maintained and maintained in time. That is why we are going to vote in favour of this proposal for a popular legislative initiative that brings the Glaga Inter-union Confederation. We appreciate the maturation of this legal text, which is not random, which is not improvised, which has a strong job behind it. We also appreciate all the intense work done in the collection of signatures, which has been done to make this a social priority as well. We are convinced from the BNG that, regardless of what happens today in the vote, sooner or later, they will have to assume — as they assume in so many other matters, from the land bank to other aspects — that Greek nationalism was right and that it was right to place this issue as a priority in the debate. [[Applause]] We're convinced, but it's really a road that's not easy. And we have to learn from other examples, such as that of Aragon, who was leaving here. The one of Aragon is now judicialized because, oh, surprise!, Dad State wanted to absorb for himself all the benefits and there was a government — the one of Aragon — that seemed not fair to him. We already know that if you weren't in Madrid, they'd sign that deal. It must be taken advantage of that they are not now, that they have moments of almost independence, so to ask that please in this matter be anticipated, that they do not trust the central government randomly and that they bet on the Galicia-Costa, yes on the Galicia-Costa, but also on the basins that are in more than 75% in our territory and that their management corresponds to Madrid; therefore, so that they find here a way that we are immediately convinced that it would bring many possibilities to our country. [[Applause]] I'm done, ladies. I ask you to vote in favour of this initiative, because voting against, of course, would be against the interests of the Greek people, the working class of Galician...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u54	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u55	...and one step back at a time when we can't afford to continue to be condemned to waste time. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u56	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. You have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group on the Left, Mr Sánchez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u57	Good morning. First of all, I want to greet the promoters of the ILP and the members of the IGC. Thank you for this very necessary initiative. I wanted to start by telling Mr. White that unfortunately not everyone here thinks AP-9 should be from Galicia and not from Audasa. Those who privatized her don't think so. Those who privatized Audasa after being cured with public money were those who privatized Endesa too, were those who privatized Inespal. [[Applause]] And everything has the same objective: the looting of the public, the looting of the common good, by minority interests other than the Greek people. [[Murmurs.]] And all the policies that the People's Party has developed were guided by that goal, and so many of the situations that this country is facing today are understood. [[Murmurs.]] The ILP that reaches the German Parliament today is an initiative designed to defend the general interest, therefore contrary to the energy policies developed in the Spanish State and Galicia for decades, characterized by the development of laws that have sought to indecently enrich the electric oligopolie against the general interest. Galicia, which specializes in Spanish centralist design and in the European context, in the production of cheap raw materials, has been especially polished in this field. The history of our country could well be the one that told Eduardo Galeano in the open veins of Latin America, or the one previously described by Castelao when he moved and moved the cow from Madrid, condemned by our own wealth. For example, the strength of the river Xallas and its coronations served to get Villarir to build the Spanish Tower in Madrid, or to give Villarir loans for 120 million euros, the black hole of the Madrid oligarchy. And the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, of accomplices from the institutions that should look after the interests of all. That story cannot be given without those necessary native accomplices, that in India's history would be the necessary sypaians, collaborators of the police. Thus, valleys were occupied, thousands of people were expelled from their villages so that some might profit from the natural resources of the Greeks and the wages fixed by the Government, which, in theory at that time, paid the investments made more a reasonable profit. In this case franchise was hard with Galicia, but what came into democracy was even more looting. Because with the law of the electricity sector, from Aznar—disk to liberalise the sector—the benefits of those companies that started to gain indecent benefits at the expense of that bill that they promised to go down with the liberalisation of the electricity market. And the Greeks and the Greeks, who bear the impacts — including the breaches of the law on the part of these companies —, what did we get? The most expensive electricity in a state that has one of the most expensive prices in Europe. The Feijóo People's Party remains faithful to the history of its party and continues to give the same companies, or similar companies, to the Greek wind in the same way as before and its predecessors had done with the rivers or lignite. Yesterday we met a car from the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia announcing the provisional annulment of the Agreement of the Council of the Council of the adoption of the draft super-municipal impact of the wind farm of the Iribio mountain, a more cicada that sought to pass over our natural and cultural heritage to help the private benefits of friendly companies, a friendly company, specifically very close to the People's Party — is the circular economy of the People's Party: favors from the governments to close the circle with the financing of the party or with positions on the board of directors. So get rid of the looting network, get back what's all about. Galicia, as already mentioned, is the second producer of the hydraulic energy of the Spanish State, with 3,700 megawatts of hydraulic power installed. And because we have very rich natural resources, instead, production exceeds installed capacity, because we have a lot of water and we produce 23% of the hydraulic energy produced in the Spanish state. The construction of these hydraulic power stations responds to the developmental model of investment and water supply, in which farms of a minimum duration of seventy-five years were granted to promoters. Of the 17,000 megawatts installed in the Spanish State, about 10,000 are concentrated in Galicia, Castile and Extremadura; a real job for concessionary companies, which have seen, as I said before, that under the law of the electricity sector the fallen benefits of the sky fell in the form of millions: nothing more and nothing less than 22 billion euros for hydroelectric and nuclear; of which 4,846 million euros extra are for companies with hydroelectric concessions. Millions have fallen from heaven. As Mariano Rajoy would say, "this is like water, that falls from heaven without knowing exactly why" [[Murmurs.]] And who pays the bill? Well, the usual, the Greek citizenship. Because by diluting or in the middle of drought, with wind or quiet chick, in recent years we have paid higher and higher light prices. They've grown 85% in the last 15 years. Mr. Aznar's electric sector law also adds to Mr. Rajoy's 2013 reform, which led to the payment — as has been said here — of the territorial supplement, and curiously penalizing the country where more impacts occur for the production of electricity while other areas that do not produce any megawatts have the cheapest receipt. So they'll tell us later that, with the closure of the thermals, we'll become energy-dependent! If in the Spanish state that's beneficial! If there's no difference! The bill of light is still the same or cheaper — as in this case — than in countries where the impacts are borne. A country like Galicia exports 33% of electricity. It only exports 33% of the electricity it produces!, from which a very important percentage comes from these hydroelectric power plants. I mean, we give 33 percent of the electricity we produce, a gift that's going to stop by the hands of a few. We see that you, gentlemen of the People's Party don't care to evict the country. We've seen that for you this is a sacrifice territory where you squirt, do business with which you're all in, strip, etc. But since they say they are very Spanish, and very Spanish, they must know that the 1,500 million businesses that are made with the energy of Galicia fall almost entirely into foreign hands, that the only Spanish are the names of former ministers, former presidents and former leaders of the People's Party and the Socialist Party sitting on the boards of administration of Iberdrola, Endesa or Naturgy; for Endesa is Italian property, in the case of Iberdrola the majority capital is cataric, etc. And those are the ones that benefit from the impacts that most of us have. We therefore believe that we must recover the hydroelectric power plants for the common good, that the benefits generated in our country will have an impact. We want to abandon this developmental model and follow the indications of this popular legislative initiative, which essentially coincides with the statement by the Sustainability Observatory in its report on the recovery of hydroelectric concessions, in which a call is made to comply with the recast text of the Water Law and to reverse these uses once the concession period has ended. For there is no reason not to do so given the full amortization of these uses. Therefore, we want to recover the hydroelectric uses, to analyse in detail the priorityization of the use of water in the rest of the uses, both water and supply, in relation to the hydroelectric uses, especially in periods of drought or periods prior to the drought, and especially in an ongoing climate change scenario; to create a public enterprise or public enterprises on different scales so that the encouragements they have to continue producing produce for all and for all, and to end with that parasitic economy of those who are said to be liberal and live to manage governments in the shadow, to make adequate laws for later even incompliant; to put the hydroelectric resource together with the wind and so many others working to reverse the abandonment of rural, so punished by these infrastructures, and to generate economic conditions for people who live there and want to live, for the general interest, for the common good. We must begin with transparency, which is scarce in the state departments and the Greeks that handle these matters, and then we must continue with the political will to turn to the public everything legally possible. He's already got his privileges and he's already been a cop! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. You have the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, Mr. Blanco and other authors of the popular legislative initiative. Good morning, too, Counselor of Infrastructure and Mobility. As we know, in Spain the production of hydroelectric energy, which in 2017 was around 21 gigavatios per hour, is largely — or at a very high percentage, better said — produced at the hydroelectric plants of our autonomous community — about 20%-21%, according to the sources used. And as in the rest of the state, we all know that these hydroelectric power stations are in concession systems; concessions or concessions — as has already been said here — that in any case have their origin as early as the 19th century. Most of them are from the 20th century, especially from the thirty years ahead — with greater intensity in the 40s. These concessions were made on the need at that time to have these power generation infrastructures. But we also know all of us here that these concessions — like all of them — have a limit, and we all also know that this is what happens — or should happen, better said — when that concessional period ends. Thus, the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2001 of the Water Act establishes clearly in its article 53 that the termination of the right to private use ends with the end of the concession period. And he proposes only one or two exceptions to that end, and it's when the destination given to the waters granted was the water or supply of the population, so the holder can obtain a new concession for the same destination. And it is also established with absolute clarity that, when the concessional right period is extinguished, they will return to the competent administration free of charge — free of charge and free of charge — how many works were constructed within the hydraulic public domain for the exploitation of the exploitation of the exploitation. And also that same legislative text clearly states, as far as the deadlines are concerned, that the period of concession for the construction of the holding may not exceed in any case of seventy-five years. Well, this is the reality -- let's say -- legally. But also — and agreeing in addition to what the Observatory for Sustainability publishes in its 2018 report — these facilities, most of them, to which we are referring, are sufficiently amortized. And we believe that there is objectively no reason not to comply with the Water Law and to return to the public sector. We don't think those power companies can claim that these installations haven't been depreciated. As Mr Casal has said, of course, there are — let us say it colloquially — three-year-olds to extend the concessional period by means of small investments at the cost of, of course, obtaining enormous benefits. So extending that deadline seems unreasonable. And the above is because, if we look at the high prices of electricity — in which record prices have been reached for ten years — we see that it is a sector that has very high benefits, which means, as parallel reality, that the electricity that pays the Spaniards — and the Greeks too — is the most expensive in Europe; and in Galicia, within the state, it is the most expensive. This turns out to be, firstly, a strong obstacle to the competitiveness of businesses and a serious problem — unfortunately — for increasingly wide layers of the population, which in many cases cannot even warm up their homes in winter. And this is contrary to goal 7 -- which is the energy accessible to all people -- of the goals for the sustainable development of this famous agreement signed on September 25, 2015, in which world leaders adopted a set of global goals to eradicate poverty, protect the planet and ensure the prosperity of all as part of a new sustainable development agenda. And we forget permanently that those targets must be achieved in the year 2030, and that's within ten years. It is therefore relevant to this kind of initiative that we are discussing today. In the case of Galicia, a very important part of these concessions will expire between the 1930s and 2040s. While it is true that there is some opacity — especially in some periods of Spanish government —, opacity with respect to the concessional period. And there's a lot of trouble to know when they're going to end the concessions of the eight hundred facilities that work in Spain. All of this points to the need to move forward in the design of a new frame in a context where battles will surely be waged for the most traditional renewable energies, whose production requires the use of a public domain asset: water from watersheds. I also insist — as everyone who preceded me — that it is a public good. And, therefore, what is proposed in this initiative that we are discussing is something where there are already some progress in Spain, which has also been referred to. The Socialist Parliamentary Group, in the Government of the Autonomous Community of Aragon, asked the Hydrographic Confederation of the Ebro to return to the state in the territories affected by hydroelectric jumps and to be the first beneficiaries of these uses, to move on to be managed closely, at that time, directly or indirectly by the Ministry. And the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation, through the publication of Royal Decree 129 of the year 2014, approves the hydrological plan of the Spanish part of the Ebro Hydrographic Demarcation, which states in its Article 96 that the performance obtained by the conca agency from the exploitation of hydroelectric uses or energy reserves will be destined for the economic and social restoration of the territory it generates, as well as the environmental restoration and the modernization and efficiency of irrigation and energy requirements of the public water management services of the basin. And it is true that in the case of this autonomous community, over the next ten years, they can reverse — if this trend does not change, and we hope that it does not — up to 11 important jumps in the Ebro basin. And also, and to what has already been referred here — I believe it was Mr Casal — there is a reserve of 25% of the electricity that is produced, for the state, or for the public administration, ultimately at a taxed price and corresponding to covering expenses exclusively. Finally, it seems to us, in respect of this popular legislative initiative, that its philosophy is correct, because it is in line to promote the public and direct management of the uses and socio-economic and environmental aspects of the territory in which they are located. We also understand how correct it is for the text to pretend that the conditions of use must be compatible and comply with the provisions of the prevailing hydrological plans at every moment, and that they must adapt to them in any case. And that's why this initiative proposes to amend the State Water Law and, indirectly and consequently, also development regulations. We also find it relevant that the Ministry of Ecological Transition, in advance of that new law of ecological transition, is working on clear guidelines on how to deal with the extinction of hydroelectric uses and that this new law introduces aspects that are reflected in this initiative. But we also understand at the same time that the administrations in general are lacking means, and this should entail an important budgetary allocation so that all of us, I insist, all of us concerned with this popular legislative initiative, from autonomous communities to local or supra-municipal administrations, Members, can face the instruments necessary to exploit these uses, which in this text sets out that the deadline is one year since the issue of termination of the concession began. For example, it is worth strengthening this argument that in these days we are dealing with the Supply Guarantees Act and there is a coincidence, I think, that generally, in which many municipalities at present have difficulty in managing the water cycle — understood as supply, sanitation and purification — due to lack of means. And it's possible that that same difficulty is also given when you make them take part in the management of these hydroelectric infrastructures. So, possibly, it's going to be necessary to look for a space of broad solutions, rather than those that propose the text itself. You can consider multiple combinations or modalities of participation in this management. In any case, this parliamentary group will support the consideration of this popular legislative initiative because we understand, firstly, that we are talking about the energy generated from public good. And, therefore, at the end of that concession period, they must revert free of charge, absolutely free of charge and in a perfect state of operation, those infrastructures for them to be operated from a public point of view, which is quite certain that they will necessarily have a more consideration in favour of making energy an element accessible to all citizens than any electrical company can have. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez. For the People's Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to Mrs. New Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u61	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. First of all, I would like to welcome the proposals of the IGC and also you, Mr Branco Parga, who was once again a Member of the Nationalist Block of Wales in this Parliament and we had the opportunity to discuss the ILP of the Greek electricity tariff. At this moment, ladies and gentlemen, if I would like to highlight the law that the People's Group approved in this Parliament on popular legislative initiatives, because that law allows you to be here today two fulls that the Electoral Council ratified the signatures; not as it had happened with another government, with the government biparty, which put the ILPs in a box — those who did not like — in the first place. The ones he liked treated them, and the ones he didn't, he kept them in a drawer. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Casal, if we trust your curriculum, it is better, of course — I'm sorry — not to take over the management of the power stations. As for your resume, you have to be a little careful with him. Look, Mrs Presas, in my neighborhood community — which is small, very small, because there are four floors — live more neighbours than Members have the Nationalist Block of Galicia, so a respect for the governments of the People's Party, Your Honor, a little respect. [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Sánchez, I know that today you're excited about the sentence you came out yesterday. The sentence says "precautionary suspension", not "annullation", Your Honor. The cancellation would be when there's a result... is that you're already acting as a judge. The judge who had thrown him out, Your Honor. Then don't judge here, Mr. Sánchez. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, Mr. Álvarez, the truth is, it's incredible that he's here and now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u62	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u63	...when they had the first chance to return to the state a large hydraulic power station, that of the Peares -- in my province -- which occupied two provinces, theirs and mine. Hey, 50 years of extension! So that's the engagement? And you, Mrs. Presas, applauded Mr. Zapatero in Madrid. Look, ladies, it's demagogy, zero! [[Applause]] Look, with regard to the ILP, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to focus on the matter, I'm going to demean the negative position — as soon as possible — as regards the reversal of the hydroelectric leaps of the autonomous community or the state based on technical criteria and not on its demagoxy. If I'd like to talk about that here it was said that there were 148 hydraulic power stations. It is true that 75 belong to the Mino-Sil Hydrographic Confederation, which are State competence and which are large centrals — all of them include 2,200 megawatts of power. And on the other hand, the Galicia-Costa demarcation has 73 hydraulic power stations, much smaller, of which 64 are holdings of less than 10 megawatts — in total they would put together 520 megawatts, compared to 2,200 of the Confederation. From Galicia-Costa's competition, as they've already come forward here, there are some lapses, and those that are close to expiring were about 30 megawatts of power. Of the Confederation there are three deaths, and they're not the largest. Yes, it's true that others will expire, but it won't be now either, it's going to be longer. Therefore, this group, ladies and gentlemen, believes that a public company created today to manage power stations in Galicia-Costa and the State — which is unconstitutional, is illegal, because we cannot manage them today as the law does — because it would not be viable with this scarce potential. Because what's expired is little, and what's going to expire is little, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the commitment of the Galician Union, in accordance with the current law and based on the corresponding technical studies developed for the purpose, is that it will promote management from the perspective of general interest so that these uses are an economic asset to our autonomous community. The Government of Galicia will seek the optimal formula by valuing all aspects at stake so that the exploitation of the profits will return directly to the public interest. This is our model. Each concession has some particularities, it's in a different location context and that's why there's no concrete and unique formula, and much less by creating a public energy company in the first place. Secondly, Mr. Branco Parga, although you did not break the law that you presented here for nothing, but entered the usual demagogy, we thought we should enter to break the initiative. So I'm going to cite some examples of the amendment of the State Water Law that you wanted with this law. I'm going to give you some notes, because we think what you want to change is already covered by that law: 1. The Spanish Constitution states that the Spanish State has exclusive powers in the legislation, management and provision of water-use resources when water runs across more than one autonomous community and in the authorisation of electrical installations when its use affects another community or the transport of energy from its territorial scope. 2. In Law 39/2015, in Chapter 2, the different types of initiation of proceedings are established: on their own initiative, at the request of the party, by higher order, at the request of other bodies... 3. Article 164 of the Regulation on the hydraulic public domain already provides that the record of the termination of the concessional right over the period of the concession may commence three years before the expiry of its validity, on its own initiative or on its part. 4. The sixth additional provision of the recast text of the Water Law already sets out the deadlines for resolving and notifying resolutions on procedures for the granting of hydraulic public domain. 5. Article 89.4 of the Regulation provides that when the concessional right is extinguished, they shall return to the State free of charge and free of charge as many works as are constructed. And it continues to stipulate that at that time the hydraulic administration will consider whether it is possible or convenient to continue the use and that it may demand its reversal or demolition of the building. And so it could go on with many other aspects that you wanted to change with this popular legislative initiative and which are already covered by the current legislation. As for the claim you cited in your law — and what you haven't talked about here — to give Parliament a detailed report on the situation of hydroelectric concessions, I insist, these files are public. Any citizen who wishes to do so can consult them. Grants are subject to publication in the corresponding official bulletins, free access for any interested person. And, of course, on the Galician Waters page is collected all the ratio of hydroelectric uses implanted in the Galicia-Costa Demarcation, in which it speaks of the end of the concessional deadline and of course they still have the coordinates for the geographic situation of each use. And, finally, ladies and gentlemen, if we speak of ideology, which is what you devoted to your intervention, Mr. Branco Parga, your intention is to create a public energy company dependent on the Galician Union. It has to be public. That's right, it's not worth being efficient or not, or it's working well or not, it's public. That's what's important though we invade state competences as well. That's part of his ideology. The public entity would manage the hydroelectric jumps and use them to lower the city hall's electric bill. The municipalities, Your Honor, who are lucky to have a hydraulic power station, or mini-hydraulic — like many of them — could have the cheapest bill. And the rest of Galicia, which doesn't count on power stations, or much less, because it'll have to pay the bill more expensive. That, Your Honor, is the ideology... that, Your Honor, is the ideology of the Block... [[Strong murmurers.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u64	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u65	...that you share here. The truth is, for us, it's a little unusual that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u66	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, because of ideology, you carry in your DNA the Greek tariff, even if it is not profitable for Galicia or even try to convince us that there is a Basque tariff or also try to convince us that there is now a fee derived from a supplement, a supplement by an environmental canon — so the Galician Union has brought a resource — which they know is an environmental canon and will cause...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u68	Please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u69	...to be paid for a year, for a mistake of a law, 15 euros on average for the bill of all the Greeks. Then they continue with that demagogy. This group doesn't think so. Ladies and gentlemen, the autonomous administration will decide on the future of each of the uses in accordance with the provisions of the applicable legislation, and of course on the basis of the corresponding technical studies — which will have to be prepared for the purpose — economic studies and analyses, lordships, profitability, assessment of technical, environmental, legal and public interest aspects. This management has no doubt that it will be performed by a model which reverts to the public interest. We insist, the expiry of hydroelectric concessions is a complex issue. Each is different and you cannot talk about a general solution for all cases. Decisions in this regard in all concessions will be guided, I insist, by general interest and in each case taking into account their social, heritage and cultural profitability. For all the above, Mr. Branco Parga, this group will vote against your initiative. And, for my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. The reply of the person appointed by the committee — in this case Mr. Branco Parga — for a period of five minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u71	First of all, I would like to thank you for the positive vote of the groups of En Marea, BNG, Common Left and PSOE. We almost got it. We missed the majority vote. They'll vote against it, but they won't stop history. This is going to fall like gravity, it's going to fall. You're slowing down events that are going to happen. [[Applause]] Well, it's political decisions. But I'm going to tell you one thing, Madam. I don't come to this Parliament to laugh at or insult me. Yes, yes, demagogic, demagogic! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And your intervention, as you qualify? Of course! Please! Please, demagogic! [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And in the absence of rigour, what do we call it? Territorial supplements are a one-year mistake! Law of the electric sector — and memory quote —, Law 24/2013. Read articles 16.4 and 17.6 — I quote them by memory — about the territorial supplements that are in the law, rulings for the Government of the State. I mean, I'm demagogic and you're strict. Oh, my God! Oh, my God! Technical criteria? And we don't know who, it's a mystery. In other words, political decisions cannot be made now because there are technical criteria and each concession is different. Of course, every concession is different! We found the gunpowder! What we're saying is that as soon as they're done, they're passed by public hands. And each concession has its own conditions, you have to look at them. That has nothing to do with the final outcome — at least the common divider. There are things you can join: the final result. You obviously don't want to accept it here. And it says, it's 30 megawatts, it's less, it's more... do you know how much it costs to produce a hydroelectric megawatt? Approximately, depending on the degree of depreciation, 3, 4 or 5 euros per megawatt. Do you know when a normal day is returned today? I don't know how the system is today, but about 50 euros. Do you know any business that produces 5 and sells to 50 everything that produces day by day, year by year? And the water falls us from the sky! The water falls to us from the sky. [[Applause]] That's what they're denying you voting for the Greek people. But, I'm telling you, it's okay. You stop the story. I always hear a voice from the People's Party, a qualified voice from the People's Party, which when there are criticisms always says: We have great stability. For blessed instability! Because we're at the bottom of every index in this country, in pensions, in wages, everything, and we're paying more electricity for territorial supplements. Someday blessed be instability, to see if, by remitting something, we'll get something better. Because so far I'm a brake. [[Applause]] I believe that his intervention, that attitude of rebirth to all, to come here to rebirth to all, is of a bad conscience, is of a bad conscience. They know what they're doing. The human being is a political animal. We know what he's doing. You cheat on the lonely here none! So they know they're acting perversely for Galicia's interests. Then we can talk. It's been talked about turning doors, the interests of the electricians... that's untouchable, that's untouchable. The two Pearls have a name — Naturgy. Belesar's has a name. And this has to stay that way, we're not going to touch those interests, that ours are secondary. Then we have the topic of electrointensives, the subject of what's happening now in thermals. And I remind you that this Parliament agreed in 2016 to bring here the concession relationship and its state. It hasn't been done yet. And if we look at Galician waters and if we look at the Inega, there are no concessions, and if we look at files, the situation in which they are is entrepreneurial. I'm going to tell you a central and get me the file: New Mill -- Eume -- He said the information was public. Get me the New Mill file, Eume River. Get me. He's lost, and he recognizes the administration himself. And we're on an energy transition theme. Actually, they're from the IGC and they're from the Bridges. And here we also ask justice for our country, we ask that our country also have a fair transition. We produce electricity to send the state and now the state makes decisions against us, and we won't distinguish whether it's better Dad Together or Mom State. [[Applause]] We're orphaned. We're orphans. I'm talking to the whole Parliament. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We're orphans. If we produce electricity, if we benefit at another economic time from other points of the state, we want there to be fair dealings with our neighborhoods. And not for tomorrow or last morning, for cheerleading! Because the consequences already have them today. And this ILP was on the line of being able to have decisive capacity in the electricity sector. You're the one who renounces it. You're the one who renounces it. They deal with being a great provincial deputy, a very great provincial deputy. But they refuse to rule this country. Don't worry, stop the time, but don't stop the story. He'll go on. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u72	Thank you, Mr. White Parga. Mr. Branco Parga, you have been a Member of Parliament, in addition to an ordinary Member, who has been here for a long time. I asked the vice president — because I wasn't in the debate — but he suggested that there were no insults. This is a demagogy. But you know that the word "demagogy" here is used daily. Yes, but he confirmed that there was no insult. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If you feel insulted, I'll take it back. [[Mr. White Parga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] That's right, got it. Subject finished. Thank you very much for your presence here. [[Applause]] Continue Debate taken into account by the G.P. of the Left Joint Group, amending Law 14/1985 of 23 October, regulating games and bets in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u73	For the presentation of the bill, Mrs Solla has the floor, by the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u74	Thank you, President. Do you know what this map is? It's the box of gambling and gambling houses that are currently in Spain. [[Mrs. Solla Fernández shows a role from the rostrum.]] And Galicia is a "zero zone" in the implementation of betting houses. It's a zero area of the implantation of betting houses and gambling houses as happened unfortunately in the 1980s with the penetration of drugs in our country. We have to do this, this comparison, because, precisely at a time when youth is suffering from precarious employment and the process of deindustrialization in the country, as also happened in the 1980s, just now the Government remains impatient at the penetration of play and play in our country. One in four boys and girls from 12 to 17 years of age in Galicia have already wagered. And at this point we have 10,000 underage children tied to the game in Galicia, 10,000 underage!, a very high figure that should put the hairs on top of any government. And from the memory that this country has of drug trafficking, of drug penetration, of the problem that I have faced for generations of our youth, we must act not from today but from the very beginning. Because what has happened so far is that the Government of the People's Party has dedicated itself to facilitating implementation, increasing the number of licences in our country — either by decree or also by amending the accompanying laws. It remained impassable and it was not until now — which began social mobilization in the framework of protests in the various districts of Galicia by the establishment of gambling and betting houses — that it seems to have decided to take some kind of measure; some sort of absolutely insufficient measure which, from then on, comes late and comes worryingly from the hands of the gambling sector. You can't get the wolf looking after the sheep. Look, the story of this bill that we present here today is part of a point that has given us a lot of concern. It was the gambling sector that met with parliamentary groups about two years ago, to announce to us that they were working with the People's Party Government a law, a rule, to modify the current regulation in Galicia. We have, the Members and Members of a House, to find out from a lobby that there will be regulation; it is absolutely thrilling news. The months have passed, the Government has done absolutely nothing and we have done a job gathering together with associations, professional colleges and collectives to bring this text to this House. It is humbly the proposal we can make from the Joint Left Group, understanding that this problem is extremely serious, that it is growing and that drastic solutions must be taken, of course,. It's not worth the patches and it's not worth assuming that a vice president of a government, like Mr. Rueda, may be at that meeting of the employer and the lobby of the game to be held in Santiago de Compostela again tomorrow. We put the wolf in the care of the sheep when our sons and daughters, when our nephews and nephews, when the grandchildren and grandchildren of the Greeks and the Greeks, are, of course, in danger because nothing is done to relieve that danger which means addiction, play, play. The game is not a fun for our youth, we don't want betting houses within the neighborhoods of our country's villages, but we don't want any betting from the machines installed at the hostel. We have a problem, I insist, which is growing. That a quarter of Galician teenagers had already wagered is sometimes a problem. I'm underage and nothing's going on at all. We don't want to see family images again — as happened in the 1980s to mothers against drugs — protesting. And we have to see now... and don't protest, Mrs. Paula Prado. [[Mrs. Solla Fernández shows a picture from the gallery.]] Cannot fry with this theme. I suppose you're going to intervene and it's a serious enough topic to get you to take it seriously. The People's Party failed the families of Galicia, they failed them in the 1980s. You have to take steps not to fail them again, so that the young and young people in this country, so that the children and children in this country, don't have a government that gives them back but regulations that protect them and that stop the proliferation of Ludomania in our country. [[Applause]] Galicia has remaining powers in the field of autonomy. I do not hope to hear any kind of intervention from the different groups, but especially from the People's Group, which has already used it in some committee debate, claiming that there is no competence in some area. I warn you because it's not true, and we're tired of hearing this pier to avoid regulating a sector that gets rich at the expense of our youth. Seventy-five million euros won in the last year, in one year, in Galicia; 75 million euros at the cost of the future and the money of the working youth. This is what happens in our country. Of course, many adults are also involved, but we are concerned about the future of that youth because we had problems in the past and we don't want to repeat that situation again. Today we bring here a proposal, which is simple, to change the current law, and which is based on principles that we consider absolutely essential to prevent us from having a drama with addictions again — by the way, very concerned the People's Party is not with addictions when the Welsh Strategy of Addictions has expired two years; two years without controlling the rise of alcoholism, two years without controlling the rise of Ludomania and two years without controlling the situation of drug addictions in our country. This initiative that we bring here today, I insist, has been fruited from work with many people in our country and from reflection, and has been waiting for the People's Party Government to do something, to fix something! And we decided to register it in this Parliament in the absence of a proposal after the gambling industry had announced to us that they were the ones working with the People's Party a new rule. There are five measures -- they have more, but there are five simple things -- Advertising ban, all advertising! We can't be suffering every day in the media, in the press, on the radio, on television, the constant bombing of betting houses that call betting girls and boys on the online game. Out of the advertising that calls to enter the game world! There are powers, and they must be exercised in this matter. [[Applause]] We can't have sports teams that sponsor the game. How is sport — which is the antithesis of betting — able to accommodate in its patronage companies that make it easier for people to engage in something like gambling and betting? That can't fit in our autonomous community. We've got to get rid of this now. Second, ban on the sale of alcohol in gambling and gambling houses. The betting houses aren't bars, they won't socialize with the betting houses. We're creating a pathological form of leisure between our youth. You're not going to talk there, there's other leisure spaces to do it. In addition, alcohol consumption with betting must be avoided, because it's a problem for people who already have multiple addictions. And, of course, it reduces the perception of the risk of betting. Third, playrooms and betting away from minors, away from associations of former addicts, away from health centers; but not 300 meters, not 150, or cross the street and see them face, 1 kilometer, so that they don't settle in the same working and working quarters, in all neighbourhoods of Galicia, which are being a plague in our country the same betting houses! Not only away from schools, but away from schools, from sports centers, from health centers, away from associations of addicted people. We must protect the most vulnerable, and the People's Party and the Government of Galicia are not acting that way. Fourth, control at the hostel. We have a clear pattern in our country. It's true that you're increasing access to betting houses, to playrooms. But most of the minors still don't bet, most of the minors bet on going to a hostel. Twenty-five percent of teenagers in our country bet, 25 percent, a quarter! But only 9% -- against what it may look like -- does it online. The rest go to the bar machines, which are also traditional in our country. And we have to put on some kind of mechanism to control that minors can't bet on. This is not leisure, this is a risk to public health. And the Government has the ability and the obligation to control it. Therefore, control elements by the way you want. Associations propose that control by DNI be introduced into betting machines, and besides — an element that is important to us — out of the sight of minors. If you can't smoke in places, why bet? If there are no ads, if there is no advertising of alcohol, drugs, tobacco, why can you bet on a minor? Bets out of sight of minors! Ludomania cannot be facilitated in this country. Fifth, derogating and removing licences — retroactive character — those who do not comply with the law are not licensed. In this country this is a free bar, there are 3,600 licenses. In 2017 the Vice-President authorized to pass, by decree, 2,000 to 3,600 betting machine licenses in our country. And there's no retreat. And they don't withdraw licenses from betting houses if they don't comply with the law. And you're coming to announce now, I don't know what modification -- I meant "accompaniment law" -- for bingos. For what? Is it a facewash? We offer you this hand-held proposal to dialogue. They haven't done well until now. They facilitated the installation, they facilitated the increase in licenses, they acted against the rights of minors in our country, they unprotected the Greek families, they unprotected the Greek families just as they did in the 1980s. But today we have the right hand here to tell the rest of the parliamentary groups that, if they are to accept this proposal — which is certainly better and there are many aspects that all groups will be able to facilitate — we will have that hand in order to dialogue. Because we can't wait for them to decide to work another text that never gets enough. We have on the table the most important aspects, which are consistent with the associations, which are consistent with the collectives. And today I also want to welcome the people who are in the public and who are attending this debate, because there are many neighborhoods in Galicia that are pending what you are going to do with this issue to prevent it from continuing the implementation or extension of this scourge, this public health problem. It's a public health problem. And the day we asked questions on this subject, to prepare for it and to see how the debate within the framework of this law was going, in Commission 5th the Director of Public Health shook his voice and assumed that the measures that the Government was working were not enough. And the reality is, it's pretty simple what to do. I insist: to ban advertising, ban the sale of alcohol in betting houses, playrooms away from minors and addicted people, control at the hostess of machines — outside the access of minors — and revoke licences they do not comply with. The goal cannot be to facilitate implementation, the goal in our country must be to make it difficult, to eliminate them from our neighborhoods, because -- I insist -- this is not a form of leisure for the working class. You have the opportunity today to change the attitude you've had in the past few months and, above all, in the last few years, and not repeat a problem again — so you have to leave this country's working class, the families, protesting, as they did against drugs in the 1980s — because the government, which should protect them, is not doing so. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u76	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Go forward that from In Marea we will support this bill, which, on the other hand, appears also signed by me and therefore out of all doubt that circumstance. Well, I'd like to make it clear, in case Mr. Pazos had any doubts. [[Murmurs.]] Look, this law arises because of a necessity, a need of a social character and a need of a pressing social character, in the best of cases — let's formulate the hypothesis of "in the best of cases" — to a leave of the functions of a government that is not paying attention to a social reality that is out there; which calls very high for addressing especially vulnerable collectives in a notorious situation lacking by a current drafting of the Galician Game Law that does not respond to anything that is happening out there. We must therefore address this situation of social purpose, which is the protection of minors, of unemployed persons, of persons in a situation of particular vulnerability as a result of regulation of a sector that is promoting that enters their lives, that enters their homes, that enters their privacy without any kind of public control. We're talking about the implementation of betting houses in neighbourhoods of working people, people beaten by the dictatorship of work precariousness, people emboldened by the false illusion that they're going to improve their economy as a result of participating in any of these betting modalities, such as a way of overcoming the lack of opportunities and job expectations that are currently being offered to them on the one hand, particularly the public authorities, and the lack of opportunities in general both job expectations and social expectations. Yes, we are faced with a perfect storm caused by an explosion of a sector that is not properly regulated in new forms of advertising, in new forms of play, in new forms of presentation in relation, specifically, to minors and young people in general. And secondly, by neglecting that changing social reality and the way of interaction with these collectives, also linked to a special situation of lack of personal, labor and social expectations. It looks at this, therefore, secondly, to a changing social reality not covered by the norm. There are new forms of play that are more intimate on the telematics, in the sense that they can be done with total normality from home, from the mobile phone. And although there are modalities that are perfectly socialized in betting houses, with their pathology associated with that form of socialization, there are also from an area of privacy, which has no control unless it is regulating advertising space — in this case, as it defends the norm and we support, through its prohibition — so that this total accessibility, that invasive accessibility, that fully decarnated accessibility has an end to the protection of higher goods. There's a lot better than freedom of business, there's a lot better than advertising and licit trade. And that greater good is the protection of minors and the protection of individuals in particular situations of social vulnerability. Therefore, given that conflict of interest which must be resolved in favour of the greater good, the greater good in this case can only be the protection of those people. This bill responds to that current situation that we all know about an advertising that is aggressive, which is also repeatedly starred by people of social prestige in entertainment space, in sports space, in play space. People who are well-respected and who in principle are instinctively supposed not to convey any dangerous messages or messages to which we should pay special attention. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, that is precisely part of the deception, of the deception enough to put a situation of disadvantage, of the descent of the guard, of the inability to react critically to what is coming to us by the media. And we must say so clearly, because the regulation of advertising and the way it has been used in recent years and in recent decades has given rise to numerous public debates. And we think this must be one of those debates; some debates this Parliament has already brought to the collective of workers and workers almost two years ago, when in the Marea Group we had a meeting with the collective of workers, which gave us a serious and clear warning that all this was happening. We were also told that, in view of that hypothesis of the new regulation of the law of the game, workers and workers had to have representation, not just the employer. They had to be the workers themselves directly, through their representatives, those who were there to have a direct opinion about what was going on and how it was changing that way of organizing the playing systems. We were already told at that time — almost two years ago, in February 2018, that it is when we held this meeting — that there was a gradual decline of workers in betting houses, and that this, in the first place, prevented them from properly controlling access so that minors, who cannot enter, did not do so; or people who, as a result of being in the process of disinhabiting certain habits, could not also access those houses. And that the massive redundancies that are taking place in the sector — it's part of precautioning working conditions or sending unemployed people who were functions that were required under the Game Law — were having the effect not secondary but primarily of carrying out permissiveness in relation to prohibitions, which were not being respected. We were also called attention at that time to the fact that the tax level was not properly controlling the changing way in which bets were being produced. So the slot machines, or the betting machines, which are in the hotel premises — in cafes, bars, etc. — paid a fixed rate even though the profits were increasing because the turnover they were moving was increasing. I make an incision and draw attention to the fact that in the forecast of the budget memory for 2020, the Government of Greece considers that there is a decrease in income as a result of these rates. Well, you have the opportunity, through this proposal for legal amendment, to introduce regulatory reforms. If they don't want to do this here, they also have the Administrative Measures Act, which they're already using to regulate and to introduce changes in this sector. They can do it to prevent a drop in collection and, on the other hand, to increase in collection. And this not only as a manifestation of wealth but also, as the Constitutional Court has said, as a desire to demonstrate a parafiscal purpose; that is, in this case, the disincentive to play certain collectives. You can do it, you have the tools, it's the time and this own bill would also be useful to vehicularize it autonomously during your processing. They would only have to be brave in order to take a step forward and accept it. This was something that the workers and the workers were moving us, as their willingness to be present not only in the processing of the law but also, in general, in the regulation through the Galician Game Commission. In addition, we understand, in particular, that this rule meets most of the needs that are being addressed here, and of those that are being echoed — as you can see — in recent times. First of all, effective protection against Ludomania by means of zero advertising. Zero advertising is a way of regulating the advertising of a sector, it's one of the possible ways. Zero shape is a possible way of regulating advertising. So we bet on that zero form of advertising also online. The protection of children, adolescents, minors, young people and girls is much better suited when there is no close geographical and physical connection. And, therefore, within the uses and within the distribution of urban space, the distance between the centres where these activities are produced and the educational centres must be sufficiently widened. Similarly, as Mrs Solla has also explained, the ban on the sale of alcohol in these houses has helped to facilitate the idea that we are not facing a space of socialization. If the Government is interested in making spaces for socialization, which fosters youth's houses, which fosters youth meeting spaces, which fosters basic sport. But, of course, this doesn't seem like a good idea for us to do it, and therefore it's an opportunity to put a point aside in this sense. And finally, I also welcome the representation of workers and workers in the next regulation in the permanent forum that needs to be followed up by this whole sector. Ladies and gentlemen, you have before you a bill that is a consequence of your inaction. The advertised and caking bill of the game takes a long time to arrive and, in the meantime, reality must be attended to, and it must be attended to by now. And for that reason the opposition, which has more initiative in this regard than the Government itself, is taking a step forward for this regulation. You could do it and take it now. We would start the parliamentary process, and we would be able to address these difficulties more rapidly than the one you are seeing in writing by the Government of Galicia, which, on the other hand, needs the People's Group to insist that things are included in this process despite the fact that it is the very group that supports the Government of Galicia. They could vote in favour, but they will surely vote against it, because self-criticism, zero — something that is certainly very improved —. And it's a situation of regret as a result also of the special sensitivity, the particular vulnerability, the collectives we refer to and the ones we need to give an answer that has to be agile and has to be already. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u77	Thank you, Mr. Villares. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u78	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all, and good morning also to the people who accompany us at the guest banquet. Go ahead, we, from the BNG, will also support the consideration of the bill. We do so as a vote in favour also of the necessary legislative change that we have been defending in the last plenary, in which this question has been debated, which has been claimed — as Mrs Solla said — by the neighbouring groups, associations, political organizations and various entities working with the people in a situation of Ludomania, who are demanding this necessary legal change. We keep insisting -- we said 15 days ago -- that what is urgent is also bringing this bill that Galician board has drafted to start changing things. And we support it in two ways, or with two objectives, basically. The first is the need to update a policy framework surpassed by the current reality, especially with regard to online betting, also cutting off the proliferation and massification of betting houses and machines in our country. And secondly, but more importantly — or so we believe the nationalists — intervene decisively on what is already a public health problem in this country, such as Ludomania, in addition to intervening in the advertising market and in other commercial communication techniques that promote betting as a way to read more. It's not a game, I think the first thing to change is the title of the law. It's not a game. In Galicia we have seen over the past few years how the appearance of houses and betting machines has been fired, as well as the number of people — mostly men — who recognize to bet with assiduousness. Only between January and May 2019 — as soon as this moratorium is approved, five months this year — 23 betting houses were allowed more in our country, up to a total of 159, located mostly — although not only — in the Coruña and Vigo. Similarly, the number of betting terminals at hostel sites amounts to 3.171. And then we must remember that the People's Party changed in 2017 the regulation that fixed a maximum of 2,000 terminals for the whole country. Things don't appear alone. That bets have become an important and lucrative business is seen not only in the proliferation of houses and betting halls as well as terminals, but also in the generalization of online betting and also in the amount of money destined for this activity. I'm not going to enter very ragous data, but simply, as an example, in the Spanish state as a whole, between 2013 and 2018, the amount of money waged at random throughout the territory increased from 5,600 million euros to 17,300, representing an increase in only six years of 210%. It's more than the budget that drives the Galician Union for an entire economic exercise. In the case of our country, in Galicia, it was 1,700 million euros, mainly in type B machines — the slots, to understand us — installed in bars and other lodging sites. I insist that the PP authorized in 2017 from 2,000 terminals to 3,600. In fact, in our country this is the main way in which betting takes place. Recently, a study published by the Agalure association, in collaboration with the Deputation of the Crown, described the Ludoman person profile in Galicia — through the people who attend its entity — as a 36-year-old man with studies, mostly with a fixed job and with slot machines as an initial cause of his entry into the bets — by the way, by the age of 19. All groups, associations or entities that work with ludoman people have been warning for years of the prejudices that involve the addiction to betting, but, above all, they are warning of the increasing tendency to incorporate younger people into this activity and of what is already a problem — I insist — of public health, but also an ingent and lucrative business for a small group of businesses. Luckia, Cirsa, Comar, Codere, Sportium and Reta are some companies — also associated with them — that mainly copy the map of our country with shops, salons and betting machines. They are companies that have become giants in the hands of the state's main sports teams in recent years. Of the 20 teams competing in the Spanish professional football league, 19 have exclusive sponsors and official betting providers. In other words, the Royal Society is the only football team that doesn't count on this. They have become giants, they concentrate enormous amounts of power, but not only by sponsoring the great and powerful football teams, but also by gradually incorporating ex-ministers into their boards of administration; rotational doors that demonstrate the growing power of this sector, as the electric sector already has. Take an example of one of the major companies operating here in Galicia: Codere. It is a Spanish-sponsored company in Real Madrid that has two former ministers of the People's Party: Pío Cabanillas, member of the board of directors, and Rafael Catalá, who entered the payroll in July 2019 as legal and policy advisor. It had already become part of the board of directors between 2005 and 2011, before the entry of the government of Mariano Rajoy. [[Applause]] Politics, football and bets. Here was the sport, a close relationship between politics, football and betting, which is also given here in Galicia, where the Galician Football Federation, chaired by the distinguished member of the People's Party, Mr. Rafael Louzán, signed in July 2018 — and brought graphical proof of the subject so that they don't think I'm inventing anything, you can go to the original source, which is the website of the Royal Galician Football Federation — an agreement with the company Lucky to promote betting between the Greek teams. The Game is born, the first exclusive wager of the Greek football. In the bet the first, second, and second B teams come in, but the project also extends to the third and preferred teams, with the distribution of 2,000 euros per team. Imagine who goes to those football games. Luckia is, by the way, being investigated in the Oikos operation by a alleged case of magnets — one of many —. Luckily, there are brave voices, too, like the doorman Dani Giménez, who said, "They're powerful, they have a power that they're gaining because of the people who move this. No one likes to have betting houses in the working neighborhoods and to take advantage of those who have less resources. But they end up sponsoring teams, sponsoring competitions, opening the door for them. And let's hope it's not too late when we realize it shouldn't be like that. Galicia has powers to curb this and to begin to intervene on the growing incorporation of youth into gambling and in the prevention of Ludomania, but we cannot with the current framework, as much as nationalists weigh us down, intervene on online betting, nor on advertising on the network, where the most growing is the number of girls and especially young people — 85% are men —. This is so far the exclusive competence of the State. We are open, in any case, to what is part of the national sovereignty of this country, but the fact is that the Spanish Government has since 2015 a real decree to regulate advertising in this matter put in a drawer, since 2015! We have to put an end to the normality and nature with which bets are promoted in the media, and especially in the network, with extremely aggressive advertising techniques that we have not seen... I am a student and licensed in advertising, and I thought those advertising and commercial communication strategies were absolutely banished, but we see they recover. Eight, eight, eight! Bet, bet, bet! Win, win, win! Remember? I'm absolutely convinced that all the people who are here have seen that announcement, and they can say -- don't say it, it's not necessary -- which person is the protagonist. It's not casual to be remembered, it's not casual to be identified, because it's part of a perfectly designed persuasive communication strategy. It would be unthinkable, it would be unthinkable! to see today in prime time an announcement of these characteristics that promote tobacco consumption or alcohol consumption. Since the BNG we have - and with this end, President - supported the consideration of this proposal. But we insist that the process of pre-project processing of the new law should begin as soon as possible and that this should be a useful instrument — as many groups, many entities and associations in this country are demanding — which goes beyond establishing a moratorium and which has already intervened to prevent what, we insist, is a public health problem. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u80	Thank you, President. Good morning, or almost late in these ambiguous hours now. From our group we will support the consideration of this proposal, without a doubt, and we will do so by asking two questions that we believe are essential. First, we do so even though we would debate something concrete. But we believe that essentially and to a good extent the proposals made through this bill are quite accurate. Our differences could be some shade things. Some of me will explain, but they're smaller things. Secondly, we believe — and I believe that it was basically also expressed by the various spokesmen who preceded me — that this new law is necessary, but it is important that, since there is no — and I will stop to explain a little what our position on this is — this proposal is very interesting and very appropriate. Some examples have been cited here — from our point of view it was also important to do a little bit of fine-tuning on this issue — and some mainly related to sports. Probably, or without any doubt, we all know that this is the scope where betting space is most focused. There are some clearly negative examples. It is true that if we go to this world of football, the first division is practically full of equipment -- the Royal Society too, because it indirectly charges the quinnies. So, I mean, everyone, all teams, are involved in a certain way. Although some -- and that also has to do with social tolerance -- seem to be less offensive than others; that they certainly are somehow, but in fact there is a social implantation that generates a lot of economic volume. And so in the face of economic power it's very difficult often to brake, you have to stand on the wall and you have to pose this. There are some positive examples. We've met some. I know that probably many of those who are here know them. At the women's basketball in Vigo, Celta Zorka Recalvi has just renounced a home sponsorship because he considers that from his point of view it is not the space of sport the ideal for promotional. And it's an example that I think we have to say, too. It's in the female basketball, therefore, and it's not less, it's not less, because there's a much greater presence of men than women in betting, they're much more implanted in men than women. Maybe there's a greater awareness in women than in men. That's a great example, and we should also be aware of it, that many of us are proud that it is also a Greek example. And — let me add to the parenthesis — in the female basketball — that the economic contribution that these clubs have is very scarce — almost any contribution is miraculous to them, and they have just given up. I think it's important to point it out. In any case, we said that there are two issues that we want to highlight on this bill. First of all, we have some nuances. No, it is not the day to enter the specific nuances of the law, because we support the consideration precisely because we believe it is appropriate to be able to deal with them. If we believe that there is one — and we have already made progress — both for this one, if it has been dealt with — let me have some difficult expectation that it would be approved, but I hope that it will be so, but also for that new law, if at any time it comes to this Parliament after so much notice, that it is the lack of responsibility that it assumes for itself the Autonomous Community. In a way, we are moving — it also occurs in other legislations, such as legislation aimed at the prevention of alcohol consumption in minors — that every responsibility is external to the administration. I mean, all control goes through the hosts, that, in the case of alcohol consumption, they have to ask all clients, one by one, and in this case they should be responsible for controlling the access of minors to betting machines at bars. It passes through the municipalities, which have especially to monitor the licenses; often the municipalities, which are against the implementation of some betting houses, do not have the legal mechanism enough and when they want to use the superior administration — which is the Galician board — at the Galician board no one opens the door; it passes lately, for example, in some municipality what it might be like in Round it. The truth is that we demand that the Administration do indeed notoriously assume many of the responsibilities that it now does not assume, that it clears out. And we therefore believe that it is important to introduce that aspect. Yes, it does in this case — and we think it's a good example too — the so-called Tobacco Law. Everything that had to be heard from the Tobacco Law! Fewer than the country was going to end the Tobacco Law, and what ended — not at all — was with a lot of public health problems due to tobacco consumption. A law now applauded, even — and it must also be said — not for everyone but for some members of this Government of Galicia, as the Director General of Public Health, who recognized it, the third time he was asked — not for the first or the second, which is very difficult to recognize something to a socialist government — because of the effect of the Tobacco Law. A good effect that, in fact, has contributed to a good extent to that reduction, not at all, I'm sure with defects, but it has contributed. And that's a good model, because it certainly transfers responsibility to its own administrations and does it in a powerful way. These laws probably seem powerful at first, but they are essential. And secondly, we said that it is very important for us to take into account the need for this new law. There is a delay, already little justified or hardly justified, with regard to the importance of the need for a new Law on gambling and betting in Galicia. And, actually, if for a long time you announce a law that is going to be theoretically limiting or that you're going to be investigating the ability to implement certain businesses, but there's still a lot to implement and it's also being warned that it's not going to be retroactive, what's going to happen? What's going on: that, since it's announced that the law will start until the end of time, that space of time produces an increase in the volume of the presence of betting houses in Galicia huge. If, in addition, we added the legal amendments that were requested here for the installation of betting machines in bars, much worse. A law is announced to limit a sector, but it remains so long that that period is used to speed up the implementation of betting houses. And we probably have that in the period since the law was announced until it implanted — by the way, those who first met it were the employer of the sector, curiously — it creates a huge volume and inflation of betting houses and machine implantation in bars. So what are we doing? It seems — and that shouldn't be the goal and we hope it isn't — that was first warned: be careful that we're going to do it, go and mount it now, so that at the end, when we can put the law, we're limiting something that's not going to happen anymore because it's happened before. We're warning them to start first because then they won't be able. And the question is not to warn to favor the sector that is soon to be implemented, the question is to dictate that it cannot be implemented. And so that space of time is contributing to the sector's hyper-aggressive implementation, also with advertising, as mentioned here. So that delay is actually not being productive, but rather on the contrary, it's being a huge problem that we took so long to apply a law that was so long advised and that it will also hardly have retroactive character, that we would expect it to be in many of the measures, but we fear that it will not be the intention, because the preliminary draft no longer contemplates it; and, therefore, we are making it easier for them to land; to see whether it's going to be a law not to limit but to warn them of when they had to be implemented, and that should always be a problem if we see it. And, of course, there are some inadequate or improved legislative techniques -- some things that are usually said in this House -- because if you could already see the draft budget law, something legal about games and bets is even changed. A law will be introduced soon, but some issues relating to licenses are changed in the Budget Act, which someone can explain at some point where the logic and where the need is. And also -- it's true -- they could explain why this amendment, which, in fact, is quite curious and, indeed, it is probably quite applauded by the employer. In any case, it gives the feeling — and this is an obvious conclusion — that the People's Party is looking for an impossible balance: it seems to legislate against it but facilitates its implementation; it seems hard, to be soft. And this is an impossible balance — as Ivan Ferreiro sings —; the question is not about looking, it's about being, and we're not being so hard. Let me -- let me finish -- point to one thing, because of professional deformation. This model of addiction is based basically on what experts know about what is called the echo model: expectation, cost and opportunity. It's very difficult to intervene at the cost, because the cost of bet is basically marked by companies, which are the ones who do everything that takes away the prices, and it's because the benefit is huge; therefore, it's very difficult to intervene, unless we limit that one can't bet more than X or less, but it's very difficult to intervene in that sense, let's be serious! But if it is possible to intervene in expectation and opportunity. The expectation is what betters expect to get. If you ask them mostly children or boys -- mostly boys, who are not younger but almost sound -- most of them will tell them they control the game and they have a friend who earned a lot of money. And that's the problem, the expectation is very high, because hyperaggressive advertising -- Mrs. Rodil said very correctly -- is telling them that they're going to make a lot of money, which is unreal. If there's a sector that earns money, it's the game, mathematically. So we're creating an impossible expectation. That's why we have to go there to expect and fight advertising. And thirdly, the opportunity, we're giving the opportunity: the opportunity to deploy machines in bars, the opportunity to deploy many more betting houses. If we give it a chance, there's a very low cost and the expectation we're allowing it to be high, this is a disaster. And so we have to fight what we can: that there is no advertising that feeds the expectation and that there is no opportunity, there is no implementation in the territory, which is what is done through the establishments and the machines. And, therefore, that's where we have to go. And also, within that opportunity, social tolerance. We allow too much bets, we are too tolerant. And let me give you a data: two-thirds of the minors in Galicia who have been wager sometimes claim to know that it's illegal and that their parents know that they are betting and they know it's illegal. We have a huge problem and therefore we need that law now. And if it's not going to be now, at least we're going to support this consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u81	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u82	Thank you, President. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party presented itself to the elections of the year 2016 with an electoral program in which we incorporated a commitment to modify the Game Law, which was 1985. All that trouble you're seeing right now we've already warned you in 2016, and we're the only group that's introduced to those elections with that electoral commitment. This commitment is included in no electoral program they've talked about here today. [[Applause]] But beyond that, in Commission 1 we presented an initiative, in February 2018, to amend the 1985 Law. It was a way to push what was the real commitment of the House's groups. The only one who voted in favour was the Galician Nationalist Block. The Socialist Party abstained, surprisingly. But the most surprising thing was the Group — then — in Marea, before AGE, now Common Left... well, Mrs Solla, you. You voted against. And why did they vote against it? Because this amendment of the 1985 Law didn't seem important to you, because it was a proposal from the People's Party election program and we're not going to vote in favour. I was very worried here today. What is it, that in February 2018 there was no such problem, Mrs Solla? Or because it was a People's Party proposal because we're going to partisanism. It doesn't contain with us to partisanize with this social drama that we're living in Galicia, and that's not today. Welcome, Mrs Solla, to the Greek social reality! But do you know why you see this social reality? Because whoever put this debate on the table was the People's Party. It was the People's Party that said that the law should be changed. And it was the People's Party that began proceedings since the Government of Galicia to amend the 1985 Law. You were neither the Socialist Party nor the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Solla. [[Applause]] Look, they've changed their voices, normal! 'cause the voice of that day was talking about the number of betting houses in Madrid, talking about statements from the Belgian minister, talking about the need to include in the law the regulation of loot boxes and video games; I don't know why today they don't include it in their modification. Because I invite her to see the intervention of her companion in that 1st commission, I invite her, because the truth is they've changed a lot since that one until today; it's recorded and therefore there's no problem. But today the same group that brings this bill to debate with a content, with concrete proposals, well, for they seem to have studied a little more and they know what the powers are, although in any case — as Mrs Rodil said — there are no powers. You said here: don't tell me that you have no competence! No, of course there are issues where there is no competence. We cannot regulate the online game or the online advertising, as you do in your proposal, which in Article 5(2) says the online advertising is regulated. I ask you a little more rigor. But, well, what is your model in the state?, what is your model? Well, your model I'll tell you. Look, this document is signed by Union Podemos and the Socialist Party when it was Mr. Pedro Sánchez' motion of censure, and this was the social model they wanted for the country a year and a half ago. [[Mr. Prado del Río shows a document.]] And you know that was what they wanted for the country, Mrs. Solla? Yeah, look, you probably didn't read it, but in point 13, in online gambling and gambling, you know what you say, the Socialist Party and the United Nations, we can? "Initiate and strengthen the involvement and support of gambling operators in the development of information, prevention, awareness-raising and repair actions." They leave prevention in the hands of gaming companies. That's what it's like to make the wolf look after the sheep, Mrs. Solla! Game companies doing prevention! [[Applause]] Look, you're the ones who hurt families, because you signed this document. And the Socialist Party was even further, because then it presented three hundred proposals for these elections on November 10, where it insists on the same subject. It goes on to say that it is the companies operators of the game who have to do it. Look, you said we don't get into competitions that aren't ours, even you say it in your own proposition! It says: in the field of lottery, ONCE and state betting will be provided for in the Law on the regulation of the game. Of course, we can't regulate that, Mrs. Solla, just like we can't regulate online bets and we can't regulate online advertising. And, look, we're going to vote against it, but you know why? Because that job is already being done. The Galician Union is already working. It's just that you guys come here as if nothing was done. But, look, someone said that there is no such thing, that this document doesn't exist; of course, as Mr. Villares said the other day here that he was hidden and that we only knew him by PP. Well, no, the preliminary draft was exposed to public consultation before March 19, 2018 until May 19, 2018 — for those who say it does not exist. This project was on public display from March 29, 2019 to June 2019. And he says: oh! well, but as he said it didn't exist, so, of course, you can come up here and say what he likes to say that he doesn't exist and has him on the stage. You have to get rid of it to come here and say there's no draft law and you have it on the scene! Indeed, Mr. Torrado, you have just done your political portrait right now. For this preliminary project aims to adjust the rules to the subject matter of current reality, introducing greater controls on access to the game and by minors, greater restrictions on advertising and face-to-face play, updating the sanctioning regime, planning measures for the establishment of the game, recreational machines and betting, and how to collect the principles governing the game and the policies of the responsible game. And all these changes, Mrs Solla, are not occurrences of the People's Party or of the Galician Union. There is a commission on which the ANPAs, consumer associations, associations of people with ludopathies are involved; and all that, the people who are on that commission plus the contributions of the ANPAs, consumer associations and educational associations, you now want to get shot at the edge, because you say we only do it with the gaming companies; well, you and Mr. Torrado, who also said the same thing. But look, in a newspaper today. Game Entrepreneurs: The future Game Law must change because it strangles the traditional game sector. [[Mr. Prado del Río shows a document.]] It seems you don't like the game sector very much the law that is being dealt with from the Galician Union; it seems that businessmen are not as happy as you say, Mrs. Solla; it seems that it's not the entrepreneurs who are doing the game law, they say that the sector is outlawing. So the law won't be so good for the gambling industry, and if you think more about families, minors and vulnerable people, which is what we're doing. [[Applause]] So, I wonder, Mrs Solla, what do you want? What do you want with this document? Does it include contributions from ANPAs, regardless of contributions from consumer associations, regardless of contributions from associations of people with ludopathies? Look, if you came here with this project to talk about the families and the good ones that you are, who care a lot about families, and play with the drama that means having a person with ludopathy in a family, with us it doesn't contain; we're not going to party with the drama of people who are suffering from Ludomania; no. That pre-project is in progress and it's going to continue, it's pending the corresponding reports, which you, I see, want to jump, but we don't; we want it to have all the reports. If you leave Parliament, you know there are reports that you don't have to ask for. And you say the board didn't do anything. It's absolutely false. I think, as you said here that there was no law and you had it on the bench, I'm sure you have Decree 72/2019, of July, which limits the installations of gambling halls and betting shops. So, if we fight the opportunity, we do expect that if the law doesn't come into force now, it comes into force later and it's not retroactive, there are no issues that cannot be resolved. Why? Because precisely for that reason, precisely for that reason, the law of measures regulates itself, in order to prevent a legal void, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, that's what those decrees are for. But as we saw here and say that they don't exist and then we have them on the scene, because it's very difficult for you to have some credibility, very difficult, ladies and gentlemen. Well, the draft law, which says it doesn't exist and which then has on the stage, because, indeed, it has principles of action in the field of play, such as the principle of protection for minors, for people who have reduced their abilities, for people with problems of gambling addiction. A principle of transparency in the development of games, the guarantee of payment of prizes and the prevention of fraud, the prevention of prejudice to third parties, the administration's control intervention, with regard to the basic rules of a responsible gambling policy, legal security, the promotion of stable and quality employment. But, Your Honor, we of course present here an initiative to include the Game Observatory, and it will include the Game Observatory. As far as advertising is concerned, you said here that we don't do anything, the director of Galician Television came to the commission and said he had an offer from a betting company to broadcast on the TVG, funded from that money from a betting company, the America Cup, and said he refused it. And you come here to set an example of basketball players, which I think is very good, and I don't know that and I don't know what else. Why don't you tell the truth? Why don't they say Galician TV also refused funding from the Americas Cup by betting companies? It doesn't matter, because it's better to say that the People's Party does nothing and that the People's Party is not sensitive to this subject. No, ladies and gentlemen, we're not going to allow it, because this debate has been put on the table by the People's Party, even though it weighs them down and even if they bring here today an initiative so that it looks like the only ones...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u83	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u84	...careful are you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u85	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u86	Yes, I'm done, Mr. President. We cannot vote in favour, because, among other things, this proposal is short. The preliminary draft law is much broader and covers many more things than you bring here today, a paripé for a facewash, because you voted against in February 2018 to amend the Game Law. And we vote in favour, we take it to the electoral program and we're meeting with the Welsh and the Welsh, and that draft bill that you say doesn't exist and they have on the scene will see the light and it will be the work of the People's Party. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u87	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Replica from the author group of the bill, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u88	Thank you, President. First of all, I want to thank the opposition groups for their support for this process. Honestly, Mrs. Paula Prado, I know they'll call me in order, but you seem to me like a (...). [[(Expression taken from the Journal of Sessions by order of the President in the light of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure)]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u89	If you know, why...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u90	Yes, yes, yes. What you can't, what you can't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u91	Here's something. I think that's part of an incorrect expression in becoming a parliamentarian, in parliamentary discussion. Then I beg you to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u92	It's my perception, not my withdrawal, it's my perception.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u93	Then I take it back, I take it away, and I call it by order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u94	What you can't come here is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u95	He's retired.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u96	...assuming others to make use of a subject and you don't have a single argument to vote against this initiative, moving the People's Party to carry it in their program. [[Murmurs.]] If you carried it in your program, why didn't you present any bill in this House? It seems a lie to a Member to ask what we are trying to do. We want to legislate, because I am a Member, I don't know you, Mrs Prado, I don't know you. That the Executive has to come here to legislate because you have no capacity to present any legislative initiative, Mrs. Prado. It's a cynicism, a cynicism, using this theme... you were better off, because you have no idea......no idea of the concern... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u97	Mr. Peace, Mr. Peace, silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u98	...of the concern we may have for others, whether we have family members or not we have family ludopaths, because you don't know; as you don't know, sometimes she's quieter, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u99	Quiet. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u100	In Venezuela? Do you think...?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u101	No, not in the dialogue, it's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u102	It looks like it's cynical, looks like it's frivolous about the subject. It's all right. It's a big concern. It's a big worry. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Who is this who comes out in this photograph? Who's next to this photograph? [[Mrs. Solla Fernández shows a photograph.]] Why is this photograph given again tomorrow? Why does the vice president work with the game entrepreneurs? Why?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u103	Mr. Pazos, Mr. Pazos, I have to call you to order. Please, it's just... Man, I think it's all right. Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u104	You know what Mr. Rueda said? If the game is good, Galicia is good too. That's important, because the industrial sector, the gambling business sector, it's very important, public health doesn't matter. That's the reality. [[Murmurs.]] And you know what the president of Galician board said when you increased a number of machine licenses in 2016 from 2,000 to 3,600, Mrs. Prado? Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo said that he was responding to a demand from the sector, that the number of licences remained low. What happens now? What's going on? You guys tried to work on a text with the entrepreneurs. What happened was that there was social response in the neighborhoods and by the people affected, they got them out of their ears; of course there was a project; it was so bad that the collectives took them out of their ears. It was so bad that the university took them out of their ears and you had to modify that text because it was absolutely condescending to the sector, making it easier for the implementation of betting houses to spread. Welcome to your concern now. They are now modifying the parallisation of the bingo installation. When? When they've just given a license in Vigo, they're already asking for jobs. The logo is on the front of Laxe's shopping center. You facilitate the deployment and spread of Ludomania in our country. You don't care what cuts you bring, don't you, Mrs. Prado. The reality is that for all these years you have worked against the health of the Galicians and the Greeks and the families of Galicia, and instead of having the tending hand that we offered them here today and accepting this bill, because if yours is going to be so good, we'll see its processing, but we need to stop the implantation, we need to stop advertising. There is competition, Mrs Prado, we can discuss competences in online matters, because there may be some page that is located here, we can discuss these competencies, Mrs Prado. But advertising skills go beyond Galician Radio and Television, they go beyond. Are they still giving public subsidies to any media? Don't you have any capacity to legislate about advertising about sports? Or do you already dismiss the possibility of exercising Galician self-government? Do you want to see the families protest again? You act cynically and we get angry. I get angry, because the reality is that you didn't have any argument against it and you could just move that they preferred to wait, but you preferred to talk about other things and not about the bill; you preferred to talk about other things because the reality is that they're between the sword and the wall, because what they want is to favor the sector, but now they have the social fabric against it. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Debate taken into account by the G.P. Joint, regulation reform... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What happened? Sorry, what happened, Mr. Torrado? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I mean, I don't know. It's just that I'm a little helpless here. Tell me, what happened? [[Laughter]] What's the matter?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u106	Yes, I wanted, by article 76.1...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u107	Sorry, the article?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u108	Or 76.1.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u109	Let me read, let me read for a moment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u110	For inaccurateness...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u111	I'll read it for a moment. I'll read it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u112	I think you know him, which means...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u113	I'm going to read it, wait, let me read it, because I don't have to know them all by heart. I'll read it. [[Pause.]] What is the inaccuracy or judgment of value that you think occurred in the debate?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u114	It's about some question that had to do with my intervention and about issues that I didn't do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u115	And which one is exactly, which one is it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u116	It's been said here about my...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u117	No, tell me exactly what inaccurateness is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u118	It was mentioned here that I quoted that there was no draft law on the subject.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u119	There may have been some confusion, I think you referred to Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u120	Yes, I wanted to clarify it, if I may.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u121	Yes, it was Mr. Villares, yes, I understand, perfect, but it was a part of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u122	Yes, but if I may do it to myself, since you've talked about me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u123	That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u124	like four or five times.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u125	That's it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u126	Since you seem to be aware but you didn't cut it at the moment, I wanted to explain that this had nothing to do with me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u127	Thank you. You got it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u128	In fact, I'm sure it was a mess...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u129	You got it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u130	...because it is surprising that the spokeswoman, Mrs. Prado, accused me of that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u131	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u132	...when she and I have talked about this project several times.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u133	I understand, Mr. Torrado. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u134	So it would be too cynical to be real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u135	Well, let's go back to what we were talking about, which is the next debate. Debate taken into account by the G.P. Joint reform of the Galician Parliament Regulation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u136	For the presentation of the bill, you have the floor to Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u137	Well, what I've been trying to say -- bad, sure -- is that all people have the right to communication, and we wanted to mean it with this proposal, which, among other things, points out that the language of signs should be official in this Parliament, because what we want to note is that in this House inclusion cannot be something anecdotal that happens when someone, a person with functional diversity, accesses, adapts to reality, but by itself is the norm, that inclusion is the norm in this House. First of all, we want to greet all the people who are here today representing various groups of functional diversity in Galicia, different as they are. See if I don't forget any. It is Cermi, Cogami, Vigalicia, Aspace, Fegadace, Fademga and Autism Galicia, less. We wanted to bring forward this proposal because it was an approach that made us several people and collectives to all groups of this House and we wanted to vehicularize it as this proposal for a reform law of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. First, as we have always pointed out, the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which was adopted as early as December 2006 and ratified by the Spanish State in 2007, recognizes that discrimination against anyone for the sake of his disability constitutes a violation of the dignity and inherent value of the human being and notes that persons with disabilities continue to find barriers to equal participation in other conditions with others in social life and that they continue to violate their human rights in all parts of the world. Article 19 of this convention makes it very clear that persons with functional diversity or disability have the equal right to live in the human community who freely choose according to their preferences, motivations and interests, with options equal to those of other citizens, to enjoy their full inclusion and participation in the community. It is a right to participate in the community, for example, to be elected to be a Member or a Member. If a person with functional diversity is a Member or a Member in this House, he would not have the same rights as any of us. And then we'll move on to it. Little has changed in more than a decade since the ratification of this convention, because, despite the laws passed for the inclusion of people with diversity, the reality is far from guaranteeing the capacity for autonomy for all. Not everyone can enjoy full citizenship yet. We can talk about how the Accessibility Act, which should in theory guarantee, since 2017, that basic conditions of accessibility and non-discrimination have been achieved in products, services, areas and in a series of assumptions, is systematically unfulfilled. In this very building of Parliament - as we have already pointed out several times - we find barriers, both architectural and sensory, and in this way universal accessibility is not guaranteed. We can talk about Law 7/2010, about audiovisual communication, and there is no obligation, even in the public media, to have a minimum percentage of subtitles and interpretation in sign language. Nor does the job reserve guarantee be met in most companies, both public and private. Yes, of all colors, also in the case of public administrations. Or we could talk about non-fulfillment of periods of valuation, both disability and dependence. Laws like the ones I just cited, without budgets, without a clear political will, become of what they are now: rights but paper. With the proposal that we bring today, the fact is that our law is indeed those laws that do not require major budgetary changes, beyond what is necessary for the adequacy of the means and services of the House to the new committees we propose, but advances in the provisions of the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2013, so the recast text of the General Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which in Article 59 lays down obligations for public authorities in relation to social awareness of the promotion of equal opportunities and non-discrimination. So, as you know, the main object of our bill is a claim that, as I said, if you moved us into this legislation, and it is the need for this Parliament to establish that the Disability Commission is equal to the rest. I mean, we have a permanent disability commission with government control and legislative impulse functions. Today we have a non-permanent disability commission which is set up for the drafting of new proposals for the integration of persons with disabilities. It is really a continuation of the work that had been created in the previous legislation, which has an irregular session regime that has been corrected lately, but the truth is, following the pace of this commission, it would not allow us, if we did not give it a boost, to finish successfully the objectives of the workplan marked in this legislation. What we propose is that, both this commission and that of equality - which is also non-permanent - become permanent. It must be remembered that in the disability commission, in non-permanently, that work plan was not set up until May 18, 2017; we did not, it is a collective mistake. We didn't look at it as Parliament until seven months after the House was set up. For this reason, we note that the House's commitment to functional diversity deserves another institutional impulse. In addition, we propose a final provision in this reform proposal which provides that the new permanent committees we propose, namely those of disability, equality of women's rights, as well as that of employment - but substantially these two - be believed to be permanent once the existing committees are completed, that these dictates and recommendations be made. In any case, we set a time horizon, which is before the end of the first half of 2020. What about disability issues today? They are regularly dealt with in Commission 5a, which includes - you know the honourable Members who are part of it - a number of areas, from health, social policy, employment, which also includes issues of equality and which it celebrates for this very reason, because it has so much amplitude, three sessions a month, in front of the two of the rest of the committees. We believe it would be more efficient and effective to reduce the 5th to 2nd a month and leave it as Health and Social Policy, and thus create these specific disability, employment and equality sessions. We do not believe that it has had an excessive impact on the increase in work in the House, insofar as, in more specific matters, they would not have to have two sessions a month. But if we believe that with a minimum of ten annual sessions, and with the commitment to be permanent legislative commissions, all these axes, which are transversal and which must impregnate all policies, would have a greater presence in the House, with the addition that there would be this government control function. It would be more than justified in the case of disability, by having a country with a high percentage of the population with disabilities, with an increasing trend. According to the 2018 disability census -- we're talking about people with disabilities rated -- 11.7% of the population, and surely this commission, nothing more will be created, would have a series of urgent challenges and needs to be addressed, which will reach us as demands continuously. In these budgets it will be tonic, we will have to talk about ending the KPD of Ourense, that its management is public, dignifying the service of personal assistant, correcting the lack of attention in early therapy - we are seeing the problem in the HULA -, expanding the community network of early attention, addressing the necessary guarantee - as I said - of compliance with the Accessibility Law in all contexts, of improving access to orthopatics, which is a topic we are dealing with in the Disability Commission. Finally, we could start with a business battery just by creating this commission on a permanent basis. In addition, we could talk about employment and disability in a country where the rate of activity of people with disabilities continues to be the lowest in the state and that 80% of their employment is temporary. On the other hand, our proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of this House wanted to make it more inclusive - more inclusive as a rule, not as an exception - with the explicit recognition of the officiality of the languages of Greek and Spanish Signs in this Parliament. Today, as you know, Article 1 is the official languages of the House, the English and Spanish. In addition, the Law of 2007, which recognises the languages of Spanish signs, states that it will be official the language of Spanish signs and Catalan in its linguistic field. This law does not yet recognize the German language of signs, therefore progressing in that recognition in this House would not only repair inequality with respect to people who use sign languages, but would also advance in the normalization of the Greek language. Another amendment that we propose, which is simple but has a great symbolic burden, is the explicit recognition that personal assistants of Members or Members with functional diversity, or even officials with this support figure, can access the Session Hall. It is currently regulated that we can access this Chamber which we have as either a Member or a Member, the officials and officials, and who esteems the Presidency. Obviously, there was no presidency to deny access to a personal assistant, but we consider it to be explicitly dignified, to visualize this figure in which, on the other hand, this Parliament has agreed to move forward twice. So, we also want to highlight a reality. Today, if a person with functional diversity in a degree where he needed a wheelchair to move, he would have access to an act of honourable Member, first of all, there would be that stuttered entry that should already be removed; some doors that could not be opened without the help of other people; he could not have a dispatch like any of us on the ground floor, he could not have access to most of the toilets, he could not use most of the toilets of this Parliament; the committee rooms would have to adapt tremendously, we saw him at the last disability commission, which could not be in the usual room. Anyway, here in this Chamber you see how they'd have to adapt to access. This we consider to be not an anecdote, it is symptomatic that, in order to advance in inclusion, institutions like this, which is the representation of Greek citizenship, should understand inclusion as a norm, not as anecdote; that is, not only adapt when the circumstance is given, but also make institutions inclusive of themselves. Finally, we believe that the creation of these three new committees: equality - fully justified because it is a transversal matter which, of course, deserves the same rank as any other kind of commission that exists in Parliament -, because of the precarious nature of employment in this country, is a structural issue - and disability, because it is a structural element that deserves the same rank as any of the other committees, it would be fully feasible, would not add much work, insofar as there are already two non-permanent committees, and there is also no rule requiring parliamentary committees to respect the structure of the Government. In fact, they no longer strictly accommodate this one. We see it as fully viable, and it would be a warning to society that in its maximum chamber of representation of the citizenship of Galicia we focus on that disability must be a cross-cutting axis to achieve full inclusion. So the question of adapting this regulation to make explicit recognition of sign language, as well as visualizing the figure of the personal assistant, also seems to us of tremendous symbolic burden, and not only symbolic, in the case of sign languages. I would also like to point out in the proposals that the laws or rules, such as those of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, have to be changed. When we put forward this proposal, Union is obliged to make a gender impact report, and it tells us yes, that we adapted to inclusive language in our modification. What's going on? That the basic standard does not adapt, the rights and duties remain of the Members. Here we also have another element to fix. Finally, it will certainly be the subject of another reform proposal. Bringing here all these people who made this proposal to us, we wanted to highlight the commitment or ask the House, ask Members and Members, a firm acknowledgement of the rights of all people, whatever their body. That the difference and the body do not mark inequality and that the House emphasizes the commitment to the right of everyone to have full autonomy in their lives and to be able to enjoy full citizenship, which includes being able to be a Member or a Member in this House like all others.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u138	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez Verao. You have the floor for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará Torres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u139	Good afternoon. We're already in the afternoon. I would also like to begin by welcoming and greeting the people representatives of disability institutions who accompany us in this House, in this plenary session. And I would like to announce, first of all, the BNG's vote for the admission of this proposal, so much so that it represents the proposal itself, which is focused on expanding the number of non-permanent committees of Parliament, as well as on the rights of persons with disabilities, which is essentially focused on the recognition and officiality of sign language. I take advantage of this to make a public appeal here to the demand that the language of German signs be officially recognized, which is not officially recognized at this time. But it is also true that there is no need to change Parliament's regulation so that we have a more accessible Parliament for people with various types of disabilities. Basically, will, political will and budgetary will are needed to adapt the building and make it more accessible. In that sense, we insist and call again to continue to take steps - some have already taken themselves - so that this Parliament will gradually remove the physical barriers, sensory barriers and communication barriers from this building. We also understand that the debate on this proposal for reform of the regulation is of interest and useful to open the debate on the regulation itself, on the shortcomings that this regulation has; a document of the past century, which is obsolete, which is beyond reality and which requires a more proper view of these times, of a 21st-century parliament, as they have done in many parliaments of the State. We think a reform of more silence is needed, which we understand must be based on the following criteria. First of all, it must meet a general principle of democratization, of fostering pluralism, of social diversity and of ideological diversity in society, of the rights of minorities. This debate is also about the rights of minorities. Finally, to make an open parliament in front of a closed parliament, a bunker parliament, a parliament often seen as a fortress that prevents people from accessing. Secondly, we believe it is essential to work and enhance the principle of transparency and access to information by facilitating effective control of the Government and ensuring the exercise of the rights of Members and Members, for example, of access to information through Article 9. And it is not to be remembered here how many petitions and demands have been viewed by this article that are systematically outdated or that are not answered by the Government; or the follow-up reports of parliamentary agreements, which are not being made by the Government, when there is a law, the Transparency Act, which obliges the Government to make these reports annually. We also find it necessary to address, in the reform of the regulation, the principle of guarantee of real participation in order to end certain authoritarian ICTs that we are used to seeing in this House, for example, in the rigidities that are established with regard to people's access to and assistance to this Parliament, the debates and censorship we are also used to seeing. As we have said on other occasions, it seems that we must watch this Parliament shut up, come here to shut up, not to be able to speak. That is why we understand that social participation in parliamentary life must be promoted. First of all, by not preventing, not waving, the channels that already have to be involved; because the fact is, in the regulation, there are channels of participation that are being systematically vetoed, such as those that have to do with the hearing process in the debates in tabling the laws. In addition, we have to open up new ways of participation. There are other parliaments that have already taken this step, for example, by creating citizen participation committees, by encouraging the appearances in Parliament, in committees or even in other areas, of people who are not citizens representatives. This can be done and done in other parliaments, through participation in the legislative process or even through questions of citizen initiative that could be brought to Parliament, even to the debates of the whole, as they exist in other chambers, and this could allow us, for example, that the collectives present today brought directly, with live voice, and not through anyone, their demands, their claims, not only in symbolic matters, but also in matters that have to do with their daily life, which is full of all kinds of pitfalls. We also consider it necessary to open up the debate on the agility of parliamentary procedures, because, indeed, we are faced with a process of processing which is too slow and far-sighted in all sorts of parliamentary initiatives, and although there is a forecast of urgent processing, it is only an exception for questions. We also see how the creation of permanent commissions on equality, disability or employment is claimed here, and there are many commissions that are not permanent, but are non-permanent, which carry entire legislation - in some cases - without reaching any conclusion or practical outcome that we are used to mark policies for the future. We agree with the creation of these new committees. In any case, as in other parliaments' regulations, the regulation could provide for formulae for the creation of these standing committees during legislation. Not to mention the endless processing — when they end, which often do not even end — of the investigation committees. Finally, what is involved in this debate is essentially to promote and facilitate the accessibility of both society and collectives and people to this Parliament, and in particular the accessibility of access and participation of people with disabilities, with functional diversity. The Joint Group's proposal is therefore going to be supported by this group. In any case, we think that it might be a good opportunity to open up the debate on other issues that we are talking about here, and that they could be dealt with, if you accept them from the other groups. We are not going to have any obstacle to this proposal if it is accepted by the majority group, by the People's Group, to take the procedure to enter the debate on all these issues. So let us open the door to a deep debate on these issues, on these needs, which are social needs and concerns, which would also enable this parliament to be updated and, ultimately, democratized and opened it up to society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u140	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. The Parliamentary Group on the Left has the floor of Mrs Santos Queiruga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u141	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of our group we want to welcome representatives of associations of people with functional diversity to accompany us here today. Of course, we want to make it clear that we are going to support this initiative. It couldn't be otherwise that we supported these kinds of initiatives, because every little advance towards universal accessibility deserves not only to move forward, but also to be visible. In any case, we must also have a critical view of how far we are from universal accessibility, but not only in this Parliament or in our institutional work, but in all sectors, and much more when there was a challenge that was marking us forward and when we are also making an effort from this House to be able, at least, to debate and to have knowledge not only from the personal situations that each one of us can have — and then I will sink, not only myself — but every one of the Members and Members in this House. Of course, the collectives and associations have the fundamental role of driving them and that they come here from society, apart from the work we have as Members and Members in this Chamber. Precisely, thanks to the struggle of the collectives of people with diversity and disabilities, such as those accompanying us here today, in 2003 in the Spanish State, a basic, applicable and enforceable legislation has been passed throughout the territory of the State, which, in short, established obligations of accessibility and non-discrimination, so that all the new ones from that date would have to be necessarily accessible. All constructions and everything that had been done since that date would have to be universally accessible. And for the pre-existing who didn't gather those parameters, such as this House and so many other public administrations, public buildings, etc., they set wide time limits to make them accessible, whenever they were susceptible to reasonable adjustments; that is, their construction allowed these adjustments. But that was no excuse not to do so, of course, the priority was to make reforms and adaptations. These time limits came at first until 2019. It was subsequently modified by a legal change operated by the Government of the Spanish State in 2011 because of the need to give a faster boost to these adaptations, and I experienced a reduction of two years, until 2017. That date has already expired, but the reality is that the promises have not been fulfilled, so people with different functional diversity — among which I find myself — continue with many problems in order to develop our lives in a normal way. We continue to be unable to enjoy access, use or enjoy the whole of the borders, goods, products and services that society offers in all its areas. So we are going very, very late in this Parliament too. Something has already been explained, but I don't want to stop. Later on, I will speak of some specific case and example that I think should be mentioned. But what we are dealing with here, which is this bill — better said, this reform of the regulation — presented by the Joint Group, gives the keys to developing in that non-permanent commission in which we have already participated, and in which I myself participate, improvements in policies on functional diversity and disability, and proposes that it be permanent to continue working on it immediately, not temporarily. We have stated, as Paula Verao said, that we support the demand of the collectives and associations for this commission to be of a permanent nature, so we agree with the proposal to convert permanent legislation, proposed committees and so on. We already have a good excuse, thanks to this initiative, to try to go on a first mission for each of them. We want to propose that the Disability Commission formulate a cross-cutting reform of the Regulation to this Parliament in order to adapt to the challenge of universal accessibility with realistic but ambitious deadlines of compliance, and we also want to propose that the Equal Commission address the issue of double discrimination against women with functional diversity. We have cross-cutting challenges — as we said — as regards accessibility. It's not just that people with some kind of disability have full access to these physical, virtual, political and social spaces, since we all have barriers already to our own limitations, whether physical, cognitive or social. We're all diverse. People who have glasses, who have glasses and can't read or can't see at a certain distance if they lack these glasses, can't make a normal life and can't do their activity in a normal way. That's why I say, and we say from our group, that attention to the functional diversity of all kinds, putting emphasis on the most serious, must be a priority, without any excuse. We have limitations for our diversity and we have limitations of gender or social class, and when they come together, the barriers are exponentially applied. If women have problems mostly of reconciliation, when we add a physical, cognitive or psychic limitation, we find that every barrier or increase of time we have to spend on each task is a mountain that costs us a lot of success. Conciliation measures — as well as this proposal — are to be able to plan our activities, for example, parliamentary activity. Today, without going further, this full is not compatible with the personal life of anyone. Planning the schedule of commissions, of course, is a step too in order to be able to vote telematically, or so that instead of a person can do it to his personal assistant, who will obviously be able to accompany him in all his duties associated with the task. These are actions that we will have to assume and normalize before or after, and we must start with our own house. We will have to normalize, after all, the presence of people with functional diversity as we are, ladies and gentlemen, all that we are here, as well as I said, and we have to do it in all areas. We therefore insist on the line of work that opens with this initiative in this Parliament. I am sorry that Mr Santalices is not present, because I know that since the presidency of this Parliament, concrete demands for accessibility have been taken into account, for example, by myself, and I thank Mr Santalices in particular. But I also know you're aware that it's not enough. And he was also aware that the proposal I made to him must not go away from this Member, but should start from this Chamber. Just as it is not enough, in this sense, to respond to a specific request from a Member in relation to the reserved squares to park people with reduced mobility, because spaces have to be adapted in advance to facilitate access to anyone and that, at some point, they can make use of their rights if they need it. For example, I've been in this Parliament for three years and two parking lots have been opened - I repeat - thanks to the Presidency for a few months. But even in this one needs to be improved by the distances from the access doors and the width of the squares, because they don't serve, for example, today, for people with wheelchairs. And I say this in a constructive way, because this is not a question that I ask for, that this honourable Member, because it affects me, that I am also, because I am the one who defends and will always defend that rights must be demanded and must be exercised, but the important thing is that there is a regulation for the adaptation of public buildings to be complied with, so that they will meet the minimums of accessibility within a time limit that ended in December 2018 and that I have made a great effort on the part of the political leaders and the managers so-called adaptation, with works including, as was the case, for example, of the CSIC Marine Research Institute, where I come from, who has done this in an exemplary way with an old and difficult to adapt building. We therefore insist on the need for initiatives in the field of universal accessibility and insist on the need for a real commitment to it, and what shows of greater commitment can we have to support this initiative and start with the house itself, by this house, which is the Parliament of Galicia? That is why I urge the People's Party's lordships to work on this comprehensive reform of the Rules of Procedure in this area, to collect the proposals of the groups that are present here and of those who have been fighting for decades for the improvement of the rights of people with functional diversity. We value the cross-sectional work of commissions such as disability or equality. Let's give him legislative capacity and permanent vigilance. We reformed the foundation of the institution according to the times and the real citizens' demands, shows a reality of the 21st century. To finish, I just want to say that I understand that we will have an agreement, because just as there was a great deal of willingness for Parliament's Bureau, at its meeting on 9 September 2019, in the light of the provisions of Article 30.1 of the Rules of Procedure, and the agreement was adopted to approve the criteria for institutional parliamentary use of Parliament's chambers because they were very concerned about the decoration and parliamentary order in our home, the house of all the Greeks and the Greeks, we imagine - I have here - which is recent - that with much more reason they will have the same will, at least, to do so today in these matters, which are so fundamental and that they are the least expected of us as representatives of the most disadvantaged Greeks and groups, that we have rights that we have and we want to exercise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u142	Thank you very much, Mrs. Santos. Mr Otero Rodríguez has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u143	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. From the Socialist Group we also want to welcome and welcome the representatives of the various functional diversity groups who are accompanying us today and also thank them for their work, which, among other things, allows us to be dealing with such important matters in this House today. [[Applause]] It goes on that this group is in favour of eradicating the barriers that people with functional diversity find themselves in their daily lives to participate in social life on an equal basis of conditions, barriers which have been outlined here. We are going to support the consideration of this bill to reform the House regulation which, among other things, talked about setting up these three permanent committees: that of employment, that of equality and that of disability; or that we have a timetable with dates known in advance enough to be able to know when we have committees and plenarys; or that of recognizing also the language of signs in this Parliament. As far as the Equality Commission is concerned, one of the issues that is also dealt with in this bill, for the Socialist Group there is no greater reason to maintain a commission such as that of Studies for Equality and the rights of women than the data they show us every day. Social perception of women's inequality with respect to men remains worrying. According to data from the follow-up annual report of the Greek Law, 72.5 percent of the population shows some degree according to claims that women can often lose good jobs due to sexual discrimination, while 44.5% of the population shows some degree according to statements such as: "At the bottom, feminist women want women to have more power than men." And more data. 30% still agree with the claim that it is difficult to work for a boss who is a woman. About 15% of the population still think that if a woman is sexually harassed at work, she had to do something to provoke it. And 25% believe that it's normal harassment at work, or that it's a fruit of exaggeration or inventions of women who denounce them. Another claim that 37% of the population agrees with is that almost all kinds of sexual harassment at work would end up if the woman simply told the man that she stopped, this idea is very, very dangerous because of its implications on sexual harassment tolerance: responsibility is the victim, not the stalker. It's with these implications what they do in real life. This is a single example from day to day for women, who face all these ideas in this society rooted in a masquerading education that lacks equal values, which blames them, punishes and holds them responsible even for the violence and discrimination they suffer. If you lose a job, it's because you chose the moment of pregnancy wrong; if you're harassed, it's because you've tolerated it or because you've provoked it; if you miss it, it's because you don't know how to drive. This reason and another even more categorical, as is what the 72 women mortal victims are up to last year in Galicia, and the 5th that we've been taking this year 2019, alarm us and clues that we have to keep working, and, in this sense, we have to do it with all our senses and addiction. And I say we have to do it with all our senses and addiction because in the last three years, only 2 of the 14 fatal victims have filed a complaint against their aggressor. Only 2 out of 14! --repeat -- a percentage even worse than an average of 80 percent of cases across Spain, demonstrating the imperative need to continue working on awareness-raising and information to victims. Of course, we, this group, are concerned about the disruption of the ultra-right in our country's institutions, an ultra-right, VOX, which questions the rights achieved by women's struggle. But if we are concerned about the disruption of these political forces, we are more concerned that they entered the public institutions under the hands of the People's Party. A People's Party that doesn't hesitate to deal with VOX, a xenophobic party that discriminates against women, in order to govern certain institutions. [[Applause]] The People's Party prefers to govern certain municipalities and autonomous communities by the hand of VOX and to put aside the policies of fighting against male violence. The People's Party doesn't hesitate to take a picture of itself anymore, but it introduces it to different public administrations. VOX, a party that seeks to break down the laws of gender-based violence, which seeks to pass an intra-family violence law, confusing -- and not the Socialist Party, but experts -- gender-based violence with domestic violence. A party that doubts the data of the State Attorney General's Office, since the leader himself of the ultra-right party says that false complaints affected thousands of Spaniards, and yet the State Attorney General's report points out that false allegations of gender violence represent only 0.01% of the total. Or more assertions by Mr. Abascal, in which he mixes his machist part with his racist aspect: "In Spain women are mostly murdered by the hands of foreigners," another statement that also fails the truth. Yes, this is the travelling companion of the People's Party, so the Socialist Group believes that we must continue to work in the field of equality and do so with all our senses and addiction, and of course we consider it very important to maintain this study commission. But, look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they must either stand by the side of VOX, or by the side of women victims of gender-based violence. On the non-permanent Commission for the follow-up to disability policies, say that in this legislature this commission has only met eleven times, and that from September 2018 until today it has only met three times: 21 September 2018 and 28 March and 15 October of this year; almost seven months without meeting. Our Parliamentary Group believes that there is a dictate on this committee before this legislation is brought to an end. But we also agree with the proposed group that, with the cadence in which they are called and if they have these commissions, it will be very difficult to achieve the objective of the work plan marked at the beginning of this tenth legislation. This little importance that has been attached to this follow-up commission since the People's Parliamentary Group is consistent with the policies that have been carried out since the Government of Galicia; for example, those more than thirty months to be evaluated and to be able to obtain the disability certificate issued to the Council of Galicia, a situation on which the People's Valedora had already warned, which had alerted the last year of the growing number of claims for the expectations that people with disabilities have to bear in Galicia to be valued; it should be noted that it is mandatory to access the certificate that believes a disability and that, therefore, it gives them the right to access certain services and benefits. Also another abandonment by the Government of Galician Union is that complaint made by the Official College of Social Workers of Galicia for several irregularities in the assessment of disability in our autonomous community. So, as I have already pointed out, it is necessary to give you the importance that this commission should have, as well as get that dictation before the legislation ends. With regard to the Employment Commission, it is crucial to equip and give greater importance to it, given the data of our autonomous community: 54,000 jobs less in the ten years of the Government of Nuñez Feijóo, where temporary contracts are the general rule. In a community where the high rate of partiality prevails, it is necessary, of course, that employment has a greater space, and we all know that the Commission, in addition to employment, also includes social policy and health, has a huge workload. We also consider it important, as reflected in this proposal, that the schedule of committees be known in advance enough to allow for good planning. And by the way, we believe it would be desirable if the committees corresponded to the structure of the Government, for a greater relationship between committees and councils, in order to be able to perform a better parliamentary control work. And finished as it began, that we would support the consideration of this bill. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u145	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. We should also welcome the representatives of the social institutions who accompany us today, because we will be able to explain exactly what this joint Parliamentary Group proposal consists of, because some of the groups seem to have confused what is a reform of the regulation with a rally in an electoral campaign. So we think it's something very serious and we should explain what it is. [[Applause]] In the last ten years, two reforms of the Galician Parliament's regulation have been carried out, two reforms: a reform in 2012, to allow the delegation or telematic vote of Members in cases of pregnancy, maternity or paternity; and a reform in 2015, through a proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which was translated into the amendment of 19 articles that enabled not only the functioning of the House, but also to extend the rights of parliamentary groups. For example, the creation of a transparency portal in which tax information is published, Members' perceptions, attendance at parliamentary sessions or group accounting. For example, more committees of inquiry. First, only a committee of inquiry could be set up on a proposal from the Bureau, the Bureau, two parliamentary groups or the fifth of the Members of the House, whenever the plenary so agreed. After this reform, an investigation commission can be set up automatically if one third of the Members of the same group or two fifths of the Members of the House request it. With the extension of the session period from September to December, and from January 15 to July; with the audience of groups in the bills, which establishes a process of representatives of the social groups affected during the processing of a bill; with the reduction of time for inclusion of initiatives in plenary or Commission, the questions went from 7 to 4 days, and the interpellations from 15 to 7 days. With regard to the information on the application for membership — of which Mr Bará was speaking — you can now convert into an oral question in the Commission. Today the Joint Group presents a non-law proposal to reform the Rules of the House which it proposes to amend five articles. Article 1 on the language of Spanish and Galician signs; Article 45 on the creation of three new permanent commissions, not only on disability, but also on equality and other employment; Articles 54 and 70 on access to the sessions of committees and the plenary sessions of persons with functional diversity — because it seems that up to now they have not been able to access the plenary session room — and Article 68 on a schedule for plenary and committee sessions. This debate says the BNG should be quieter. In the Joint Group's proposal it turns out that these issues are mixed up, which have nothing to do with each other, but the Nationalist Block in Wales seems to have little time for this reform. Well, with regard to Article 1 you want to amend, on the official languages of the Galician Parliament, you say that German and Spanish will be the official languages of Parliament, as well as their respective sign languages. The declaration — as you know — of official languages that collects Parliament's Rules of Procedure comes from Article 5 of the Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia and 3.2 of the Spanish Constitution. The Spanish Sign Language was legally recognized in Law 27/2007. With regard to the language of German Signs — when you speak the language of Greek Signs — two Members of En Marea in February this year called for measures at the Congress of Members to recognize and promote a language of German Signs — the Group of En Marea to which Mrs Vázquez Verao previously belonged, who is now in the Joint Group and who presents this proposal. Well, what did the Association of Day People Federation say? I quote literally: "There is no social demand for a Galician sign language. Since the Federation we have always defended the languages of signs that are officially recognized at this time at the state level." Sign language in the Galician Parliament is already used in plenary meetings, and recently Parliament's website has just included new content with sign language interpretation. In addition, in drawing up the Director of Works Plan for the renovation of the building, in order to make it accessible, it is under way, something which seems to be unknown to the honourable Members. With regard to the amendment to Article 45, on the establishment of these three permanent legislative committees: disability, equality of women's rights and employment, two non-permanent committees are currently in operation in this House, which seems not to be mentioned, which is the special non-permanent commission for the follow-up of disability policies, the development of new proposals and the integration of persons with disabilities, and the non-permanent Commission for the study of equality for women's rights. Well, what is the importance of this committee? For us it's a lot, for you it seems that they complain right now because they're irregular. I would like to remind you that in this Committee there is not only the People's Group, we are represented in this committee all the groups; that is, in the Bureau, with the chairman of the committee — who I am now — is represented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Joint Parliamentary Group on the Left. Never, ever since this Commission was created, no Member of this House or parliamentary group has spoken to the chairman of the committee to tell you that it was necessary to extend the timetable of the disability committees. On the other hand, some Members complained that there were many committees, which were mixed between Commission 5a and the Disability Commission. So if we are really committed to disability is a matter of political will, and political will must also have it in working on a non-permanent disability policy commission. That is why we consider, like you, that there must be a review of the standing committees, especially those in the social field, because we have to open a debate on the current composition. The example you set, the 5th Commission, where social policy, health, equality, employment are concerned, but we are also in favour of completing the work of the non-permanent Commission on disability, and making those conclusions, because there are differences... You see, in this non-permanent committee, not only are representatives of social entities, but they are experts in the field, they are attending official schools. And in the permanent commission that you intend to set up, these social institutions would not be directly represented; you would speak to social entities, asking questions to the Government of the Union or presenting initiatives, but local entities and social entities would not be directly represented in that commission. With regard to the final disposition of this proposal, you are talking about the need to finish the work before July 2020 and create that commission after the work. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the next legislation; and in the next legislation, we are actually open, as you say, to review the composition of permanent commissions because they do not agree with the councils and delegations of the Council of Galicia. Indeed, Commission 5th is overburdened, and it would be more effective to follow the structure of government: social policies, equality policies, employment policies or youth policies. With regard to Articles 57 and 70, which you also intend to modify, about access to the plenary room and the commission of persons who act as assistants to people with functional diversity, I wonder, Mr. President, when was it banned or when the entry into this parliament of a personal assistant to a person with functional diversity was not accepted? When you didn't accept the entry into this plenary and this parliament of a blind person coming with your guide dog? When was it not easy to enter a disabled person who uses wheelchairs to come to a commission? When? If not, if it is always allowed!, why is it necessary to amend the Rules of Procedure? Because then we shouldn't change it just to put personal assistants, we would have to make that article inclusive and talk about blind people with a dog of assistance, people with functional diversity who come with personal assistance, people who come with wheelchairs, sign-language interpreters, etc. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And finally, the golden brooch of this very important initiative to amend the regulation is that we need to have a schedule of plenarys and committees in sufficient time in advance so that Members can make our agenda. Now, look, at the beginning of each session, a reference is made to the Agreement of the Committee Chairs meeting and the schedule of committees to the Spokesman Meeting, plenary meetings. And in the committees of this legislation, the meetings of committee chairs are being held in the middle of the month, which allows us to have, for example, the schedule of committees of November 15th. We therefore consider it necessary to adapt the standing committees to the departments of the Galician Union; but, of course, we do not think it is appropriate for a whole revolutionum to make an amendment to the regulation of the Galician Parliament where you mix various subjects that have nothing to do with each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Replica from the author group of the bill, Mrs. Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u147	First of all, it seems that we agree with the groups on the need to restructure these committees, so let us move forward with this procedure. You have most of the time, and if it doesn't seem right to you, for example, that this is a whole revolutionum - which it is not - you can formulate, for example, exclusively the creation of this disability commission once you have finished your work. We always note it, it is necessary to finish the work that is under way to do the dictates with the conclusions reached by all these expert and collective people who have appeared in the committees. We hold on to that, we will give you forward to the process and we will be able to deepen the reform, adding also those inclusive aspects that the People's Party and the Joint Left Group have signaled. We don't understand, then, why don't you do it. See if I don't forget all the points we wanted to deal with. We have already said, firstly, that it was a collective mistake for all groups to delay seven months since the constitution of the House the adoption of the work plan of the Disability Commission, which, on the other hand, came from the previous legislation, which should have already been completed, but which, of course, is the majority group. I wanted to start pointing out what we had noted here. First of all, I should like to thank the office of the Presidency — which I have forgotten before — for the facilities so that the people who accompany us could be here. Indeed, access to this Parliament should be changed in the sense that Mr Bará has signaled it, and that the presence of people in the rostrum does not impose a number of limitations. We agree with the Galego Nationalist Block that reforming the regulation would require many more changes of silence for its obsolescence to ensure inclusion, greater citizen participation, agility in debate, greater control of the Government, inclusive language — as we have said — that is not collected in this norm; or even the fact that the use of electronic devices to take photos and videos is banned in the 21st century, because we are in 2019! And we also agree with the Joint Left Group on the importance of visibility. The object of some of the proposals of our reform was visibility to contribute to inclusion. We do not say that the Presidency has ever sought access, to people with functional diversity, to support mechanisms, or to support people they have, to this House, but what we want is that there is a recognized right, based on the standard, and that does not depend on the Presidency's decision, although, of course, no presidency would deny the access of a personal assistant to the Chamber. We thank all the groups for their support. He used the socialist voicer "to eradicate the barriers". We agree with the radicality of that word: the barriers must be eradicated. And we humbly wanted to contribute to this proposal, which is one more reform — as the popular spokesman has already pointed out — to make this House a more inclusive place. You cited the web as an example of inclusiveness. Try to tell any citizen or citizen to seek a debate from this Parliament on the web. It's a galimatia! In 2019, you can't have the website we have and brag that it's an example of accessibility! I really believe that we need a thorough debate on what universal accessibility is in this Parliament. We believe that this reform proposal would give us a framework for discussion. I don't know if the PP voicer has just told us that the legislation will end before time. Because we're the deadline we set for the completion of the committees was July 2020, this legislation. Well, during the session, okay. [[Murmurs.]] In any case, if they are open to this reform, which all groups have expressed the need to restructure the committees, which they do have to do with, because Commission 5a is a revolutionary package. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We would reduce one session of it to the month, and we would not only have to locate disability, but also employment and equality; that, as all the voices and voices have already pointed out, it is essential, and it is not understandable that they are not of a permanent nature. Finally, we continue to keep this proposal. We regret that you have not travelled and hope that if you approve the next legislation it will be with a different composition from this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u148	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u149	We shall proceed to the vote on the legislative texts. In this case, we begin by voting on the amendments to the whole refund presented to the Bill on the regulation of the playful use of thermal waters. We started by voting on the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting the amendment to the whole, return, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, to the Bill on the Regulation of the Ludical Use of the Thermal Waters of Galicia. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 28; votes against, 39; abstentions, 4. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u150	We are now voting on the amendment of the Left Joint Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting the amendment to the whole, return, G.P. of the Joint Left Group, to the Bill on the Regulation of the Ludicum Use of the Thermal Waters of Galicia. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 28; votes against, 39; abstentions, 4. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u151	And we voted for the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting the amendment to the whole, return, G.P. of the Galician Socialists, to the draft law regulating the ludic use of the spa waters of Galicia. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 28; votes against, 39; abstentions, 4. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u152	So denied these amendments to the whole, this bill continues the parliamentary process. We are now voting on measures for the new management of hydroelectric leaps and uses in the Autonomous Community of Galicia. We vote. Voting the adoption of measures for the new management of hydroelectric leaps and uses in the Autonomous Community of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This consideration is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u153	We now vote to take account of the Bill, the Parliamentary Group of the Left Joint Group, which amends Law 14/85 of 23 October 1985, which regulates games and bets in Galicia. We vote. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. in the Joint Left Group, amending Law 14/1985 of 23 October, regulating games and betting in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This consideration is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u154	Voting on the legislative proposal from the Joint Parliamentary Group to reform the Galician Parliament's Rules of Procedure. We vote. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. Joint reform of the Galician Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This consideration is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u155	I forgot to vote, but on the march I've already settled the matter. We're not gonna waste time on this. [[Murmurs.]] I've arranged for the march. The votes were finished. You can open the doors, please. Point 4 of the agenda. The opinion of Mrs. Counsellor for Education, University and Vocational Training, on his own request, to inform the beginning of the course 2019-2020 in non-university education in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u156	In order to formulate this appearance, Mrs. Carmen Pomar Tojo has the floor of the Councillor for Education, University and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u157	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. As is customary in recent years, once a reasonable time has elapsed since the start of the school course, in this case after almost a month of academic activity, the Education Council informs this House of the situation experienced at the beginning of each course in non-university education in Galicia. My predecessors in office met this obligation to render accounts and today I also do so convinced that the whole of Galician society has to recognize what it means to guarantee a differentiated and innovative educational model that has to constantly adapt and meet increasingly demanding needs and demands. Each school course involves attending a large number of people and enabling sufficient human and material resources. It's a responsibility and an obligation to achieve the best for our boys and girls. Every school course has to deal with ordinary situations that can be planned, but also with unforeseen circumstances. There lies the government task. We're beginning to draw a quantitative and qualitative vision of the reality of teaching in Greek in this course 2019-2020. In Galicia the student, in the education system in Galicia, remained practically unchanged, so the number of pupils and pupils of childhood education, special, primary, secondary, bachelor's degree, artistic and sports teachings amounts to 345,044, 0.2% less than in the course 2018-2019. In addition, still with unclosed data, Welsh vocational training continues to grow and the different modalities of these teachings have 52,764 students, 3.3% more than in the previous course. So one more month of September, all available resources were activated so that from the first day of the class, efforts were made to meet the educational needs of some 400,000 pupils and students of different non-university educational levels at different points in the Galician geography. One more course, the Council met its obligation to plan, regulate and administer regular education throughout its scope, levels, degrees, modalities and specialties. One more course, organizing the activity of educational centres, taking into account pedagogical, demographic, geographic and resource management criteria. What's the result? We can say that this course started the activity normally, except for some point-incidence that was attended when it occurred. At each start of the course, it is the mission of the Educational Administration to facilitate adapted and suitable facilities to meet the needs of the educational community as a whole. I have to admit that the works carried out marked this start of the course in Galicia and I have to recognize that the team of the Education Council, on which it depends on its competences and in the fulfilment of its legality, did everything within its reach to make it compatible the need for improvements in various educational facilities in Galicia and in the development of the educational activity at the start of the course. There was concern among some families, even though they decided not to send their children to class and there were many criticisms of the opposition. It is appropriate to answer the following question: what was and what is the reality? The reality is that the public network of educational centres in Galicia is composed of more than 1,000 facilities and that the incidences were limited to less than half a dozen schools. This represents 0.0055% of the total number of centres, just in the first days of educational activity. The reality is that the centers, both those who needed works and those who didn't have them, are operating on an ordinary basis, and the Council follows closely the progress of the activity to meet any situation that might happen, which may arise. In the first days of the course there was a difference of opinion about the state of some centers, mainly in the province of Lugo, but they were clarified and resolved within a few days. Only in the case of the Multilingual CEIP Santa Maria, of the Foundy, although the work is of integral rehabilitation and was almost finished inside the center, the Territorial Chiefship of Lugo took the decision to transfer the classes to the facilities of the Multilingual IES Fontem Albei, which is located very close to the school and which has always shared the dining service on two shifts. The Council is acting and ensuring the proper functioning of the educational activity, as has happened recently when it was necessary to react to the effects of the rains and primary students of the ICC Cova Terreña, of Baiona, were housed in the CEIP Fontes-Baína, a decision from which were participated to the territorial chiefship, the direction of the center, the ANPA and the municipality. The Council reacts both at the beginning of the course and throughout the course all school years with and without works. I will no doubt listen to what they have to say since the opposition today, but in this part of the audience I want to emphasize the planning and the important effort of bidding and hiring carried out by this council so that in this course 2019-2020 the most senior schools would carry out their educational activity in the best conditions. The Education Council, as far as its competences are concerned, has fulfilled its commitment to having all the works listed within the educational centres so that classes could be started normally. In some cases, in many of them for reasons other than the Council, the works abroad had to be compatible -- and still have to be compatible -- with the educational activity over these months. In any case, they're under maximum security conditions. I must recognize at this point the maximum collaboration of some of the municipalities where these centres are located in works, and these are of different political colors. It must be remembered that the fact that the Central Government did not approach the surplus funds delayed the execution of a total of 22 works and forced the Board to make an advance treasury so that it could have funds to bid and assist the work, which was done in a record time. It is precisely these works that continue to be carried out outside the centres. It is worth noting that 2019 was the summer with a greater volume of work being carried out in educational centers. Within the educational infrastructure allocation plan for this year, a total of 54 large works have been implemented or implemented, amounting to more than EUR 50 million and over 200 small works from the RAM budget — reform, expansion and improvement — by more than EUR 6 million. It would only be that since the opposition they have recognized the work done by the Education Council, as do most of these educational communities. It would not be too much to recognize that the works have a duration, in the case of the projects we are talking about, of three months of execution, and that the educational activity in educational centres also takes a concrete time during the course. The Council is responsible for the ambition in programming the number of works to be executed and for much of the administrative processing, but it cannot guarantee other variables that are foreign to it. And I'm thinking, do you think it would have been better not to have done these works? But this start of course, in addition to acting in the improvement of educational facilities since the Welsh Educational Administration, we also face the coordination of a totally free school transport for approximately 88,054 pupils and students of 776 public centers in this course 2019-2020. In addition, the Council agreed with 13 entities to facilitate the transport service to 314 pupils with special educational needs with the support of 62 assistants. We have a school dining room based on family income payment. In the course of 2019-2020, with still unclosed data, it is estimated that the school dining service will have 76,987 meals, adding the 434 dining rooms managed by the Council, the 130 ANPA and the 52 city halls. The Welsh Educational Administration will serve some 62,092 users through the 300 indirect management dining rooms and the 134 direct management. And also the free solidarity for textbooks, which we estimate that for the course 2019-2020 involves some more than 29,000 help in the acquisition of textbooks and 102,158 help in the acquisition of school materials. In addition, the solidarity fund of textbooks will allow manual distribution between about 119,278 students and students. We have a network in Galicia of over 1,300 educational centres supported by public funds. Most centres hold 100 percent of the public, in particular 1,083 centres. That is, around 8 out of 10 are totally public; and they are centers that offer 70 percent of the student enrolled in our community. As a result of a state rule driven on its day by the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, the network of public-funded centres also includes the concerted centres. In this course 2019-2020 there are a total of 3,954 concerted units, 25 more than in the previous course, as a result of the progressive increase in agreed educational levels. Thus, concerted education responds to around 28% of the need for school squares in Galicia. On the other hand, the College of Education, University and Vocational Training reviewed how every year the enrolment of public schools in the levels of primary and special education for the course 2019-2020; a normal process that, like every year, takes place before the start of each course in order to match the number of units to that of students and students enrolled in each educational center. According to the final enrolment data, in this school, six unit schools were no longer served because of the low level of pupils in these centers; four belonged to the province of Coruña and two to Pontevedra. It must be noted that the Council maintains the same criterion for abolishing them for one more year; that is, it contains five or fewer pupils or students. The German Government is making every effort from all the councils to maintain and encourage rural life. This includes the maintenance of schools with six pupils and students, when at other times ten pupils or students were closed. Like each course, we also faced the reorganization of units within the educational centres themselves, which, as usual, was carried out depending on the increase or decrease of the student. Even so, units — eight in total — have been enabled to perform so-called classes when there is a timely or circumstantial increase in the number of students or students. At this point, I would like to point out that a unit in Negueira de Muñiz, province of Lugo, has been enabled to have enough students and students. As you know, this is a particular situation in a municipality where there is no open school and where there is a lot of distance from the nearest school; so the emergence of a group of students has motivated this decision. I also want to mention the case of the child's unit of Work, also in the province of Lugo, where it was evident that the Town Hall has nurtured unrealistic expectations. Even so, when their six minimum students were registered in the registration, the Education Council fulfilled its commitment to maintaining the CEP child unit Multilingual Celso Curras. But by finding that the actual enrolment was only four students, it changed the decision, because it violates the criterion, and keeping this class open was a comparative aggravating for the rest of Galicia's education system. It must be made clear that the Union guarantees the educational service to these four students in the centre itself through the relevant educational groupings. In any case, one more course the Council organized the activity of educational institutions through efficient but also efficient use of resources and always taking into account the educational needs of the student. As a complement to this so far, I would like to reiterate in this Parliament our gratitude and our conviction regarding the fundamental role of teachers working in the Greek education system, as they are active, participatory and innovative agents of their student's life. That's how I see it myself in the visits I make, week by week, to different places of the Galician geography, which is the best way to get to know what is done in our schools and in our schools. We understand that the needs of the education system are once again covered by another school course, since Galicia has professional and committed teachers, to whom we are, in addition, very grateful for their surrender and their efforts. One more course, the Council has a teaching staff framework which not only respects the post catalogue set by the Bipartite in 2007 but which is signed with all trade unions but exceeds the minimum requirements laid down in that agreement. One more course is available from a teaching staff in public education that exceeds 30,100 professionals and is in any case adjusted to the real demands that appear at the start of the course. Since this House I want to make sure that in this course the Council will remain committed to the job stability of teachers, with ongoing public employment offers and enabling Galicia to have the lowest rate of state interinternity, with the highest pay improvements that began in October 2018 and will continue gradually until 2021, the result of a wage agreement signed last year with the unions and with the permanent training of the teacher, because for the initial training we continue without news of the central government in functions. Once the data on pupils, about schools and teachers are offered, it seems appropriate to present the situation of the educational model launched in Galicia over the past few years; in particular, as one more course, the programs promoted by the Council are counting on the participation and involvement of the educational community. The German student will receive another course of modern training adapted to the present times, as a result of the progressive expansion of initiatives and policies launched in the last decade. Multilingual education is increasingly at levels and teaching, so the student-Greek, in addition to the acquisition of skills in Spanish and in Greek, faces an integral learning of a foreign language, mostly English. In 2008-2009 there were only bilingual sections and there were around 12,500 students and beneficiaries. After the various initiatives launched by this government in the field of multilingualism, the number of pupils and pupils involved in language learning in the course 2019-2020 is around 110,000, including pupils and students in multilingual centres, centres with multi-child star and multi-Bach and bilingual sections. This data represents 31.87% of the student enrolled in the teaching centres in Greece. The network of multilingual centres began in 2010-2011, with a total of 58 schools -58 schools - with primary and secondary education in those in which only bilingual sections existed in the previous stage. In the course 2019-2020 it already has 377 centers, more than six times that 58; that is, sextuplicate those that had. They are centers with classical plurilingual implantation, centers with primary and secondary English implantation. But in recent years the Council has extended the learning of foreign languages to levels of children, bachelors and vocational training. Thus, in this course 2019-2020 the application of EDUlingue Strategy covers 423 centres with multilingualism at different educational levels, 4,647 bilingual sections and 617 auxiliaries of conversation, which increase to 16 hours and will also be trained in language teaching. Galicia is making an unprecedented effort, with different measures that are allowing for a evolution that walks at a good pace in the teaching of foreign languages with, among other measures, the development of English week and EduExchanges, and from this course also a renewed training plan for the teacher who will strengthen work in the classroom of oral competition and who will use specific didactics. This will be the second course in which the possibility of believing the level of language knowledge B1 and B2 in English is enabled, according to the common European language reference framework, so that students who have completed the secondary stage, bachelor's or vocational training by studying in the network of multilingual centres can have accredited that level of language knowledge. The procedure authorized by the Council will consist of totally free tests for families, and in addition to this call, C1 is also introduced so that the student who already has the B2 certificate can certify that level C1. I would like to remind you that, according to a report from the Ministry of Education and also from the British Council, multilingual education is improving the communicative competition in English for Greek students. All you have to do is go through one of the multilingual centers or bilingual sections to have a conversation in English with the boys and girls, from the youngest to the youngest. Both they and their teachers are satisfied with the experience framed in the EDUlingual Strategy. So we will continue to move in this direction. As I have already pointed out in this House, we are working on the real integration of ICTs, new communication technologies, in teaching and learning scientific and technological skills by the student of Greek. As you know, we evaluate as positive the voluntary participation of the centers in the progressive implementation of the Welsh Strategy for Digital Education, Edudigital 2020, with several lines of action. With E-Dixgal, the German teaching has improved content support and updating tools, enabling the digital book to arrive in the current course 2019-2020 to 347 educational centers and 27,000 students. In six school courses it grew in 263 educational centers and in 24,700 students and others. The development of this action has put a great deal of emphasis on promoting and developing ICT competences both in students and teachers, as well as a great effort at the level of organization and at the level of economic proximity. The centers attached to this project have access to the right network and the necessary technology in the classroom, both for the teacher and for the student, and will have access to a virtual learning environment with free content provided by the Join. Let me recall the words that Salman Khan spoke recently, the Princess Asturias Prize for International Cooperation, when he said: If I had to choose between an incredible teacher or teacher and an incredible technology for my children, or for anyone else, I would always choose the incredible teacher or teacher. But what if that free technology could be used to empower these great teachers, these amazing teachers? I use to remember that E-Dixgal, together with the help of textbooks and school materials and with the solidarity fund, is an innovative model with which the Board helps families who need it most to acquire the study support material that the centers require. Another line of Edudigital is the STEM Strategy, with which the skills in science, technology and mathematics are being fostered among the student of Greek. In the 2018-2019 course fifteen centres offered for the first time the Bachelor of Excellence in Science and Technology, known as STEMbach, at the first level of Bachelor of Bachelor of Technology. In this course 2019-2020 will provide this mode of bachelor's degree with a total of 31 centers; therefore, more than twice as many centres, with 560 students and participants. The fifteen centers that started imparting STEMbach last year are still at the second level of bachelor's degree and there are sixteen new educational centers that premiere STEMbach this year in the first year of bachelor's degree. As a matter of fact, there is continuity in the rest of the related activities, such as the Maker Spaces, the science clubs and the STEM Week. Edudigital also promotes robotics, so all high school centers -- still pending to solve the last call -- we think that around 180, will count on the course 2019-2020 with robotic kits provided by the Council, a material that will also be linked to teacher training actions. The objective of this initiative is that the student in Greece has the opportunity to begin with the experience of basic programming, robotics and construction. I myself have checked the magnificent results that you are giving this action in primary last Saturday in a few days about eTwining and Erasmus+ programs, seeing as children from primary quarter of a school near Santiago, specifically the Sigüeiro CEIP, they programmed several mBots to dance a mill with each one going out and each mountain. So there are tangible results in real projects. In addition, the Council offers two free autonomic configuration materials that are specific to this issue: programming, secondary, and robotics in bachelor's degree. Together with the promotion of STEM competences in educational centres, we have also been promoting literacy skills since the Council. That is why I would like to remind you of the important role of school libraries in the formation of the student's key competences and as meeting places for creation and critical thinking. There has been an evolution of the school library improvement plan, which has been integrated into the most ambitious LIA school library plan, for reading, information and learning, and for adding up to other actions and fulfilling the objectives of providing educational centres with useful, stable, sustainable and according to the needs of the 21st century. In the course 2009-2010, a total of 299 centres were integrated into the Plambe, while in the current course 2019-2020 we exceeded 700, and the most important thing is that these centers are fully involved in developing school library projects that seek the dynamization of this space as a resource center for reading, information and learning, while affecting programs for the acquisition of information and media skills of the student. In the context of the LIA Plan, together with Plambe, in this course there will be continuity of the Inclusive Library Program, with the involvement of special education centres or special education communities, and also the centers are developing initiatives such as reading clubs, radio in the library or work with the Escornabots, through the Creative Library Program, among others. A more Galician course defends respect and co-existence in classrooms, betting on a teaching that addresses attention to diversity from legislation and planning measures including equality and educational innovation. We continue to develop, disseminate and consolidate the measures grouped into the Galelic School-Convives Strategy 2015-2020, Educonvives, which meant for the teaching of Greek to have coexistence plans at each centre. The document helps members of the educational community — especially students — to develop social competences and civic competences. We have in force the Act of coexistence and participation of the educational community of 2011, which resulted in the publication of the protocol for the prevention, detection and intervention in harassment and cyber-acoustics in 2013; Decree 8/2015, which develops this Act of 2011, in which important organizational and operational measures are established to apply in educational centres and guidance on coexistence plans to be developed by each centre in 2017. In this school, we continue to develop diagnostic actions, school organization, training of students, families, teachers and management teams for conflict prevention; dissemination of successful experiences and good practice; homogenization of documents in the establishment of standard models to speed up conflict management; empowerment of conciliation and mediation as means of conflict resolution, in addition to coordination of actions with other entities and institutions that work to improve coexistence. We're still analyzing the data from the macro-inquisition on coexistence conducted in 2019. There are many of the items that are being consulted between the entire education community in Galicia, but I want to provide a data that encourages us to continue to work for the improvement of living in the classrooms. The results of 2015 noted that the satisfaction rate of families with educational centers was 81.1%. The results of 2019 show that the satisfaction of families reaches 84.2%. Furthermore, as a novelty on this occasion, we also know that the satisfaction of the student with the educational centres in which they are educated is 76% and that the satisfaction of the teacher with his center is 89%. This perception is a result of the joint work of the Council and the educational community, and it is, as it said, of data that encourage further progress in the educational policies that are being implemented. The same is true in the case of educational inclusion, we must continue to move forward. Today, we can claim that the Greek education system is the most inclusive of all Spain. According to the latest statistics of the Ministry, Galicia is the autonomous community with the highest percentage of pupils with special educational needs integrated into regular centres. We are talking about 92.7% of the student with integrated special educational needs, which favours equal opportunities. You mean this thing that's all solved? No, no, no, no. There can always be a new case of a student or student who needs attention. If we were to say it's all settled, the truth is, it wouldn't make much sense to be here today, neither would I and you. The fact is, when this case is detected with psychopedagogic criteria, the Council acts and pays attention. One thing is to solve individual cases at the moment they appear and another is to act preventively. So, I want to highlight the educational protocols that are available to educational communities and that are guidance and guidance documents in intervention in cases of such diverse areas as the prevention and control of school absenteeism in Galicia, gender equality and identity, the educational treatment of students with autistic spectrum disorder, the care of students with cognitive disabilities and several more. We believe that the educational protocols fulfill their guiding role, their facilitating function, so we want to equip teachers and families with more protocols. We are about to present the instrument of action and intervention in the field of dyslexia and other specific learning difficulties. All this was possible thanks to Decree 229/2011, so attention is regulated to the diversity of the student. Without a doubt it was a model regulation in its time, because it meant involving everyone in the development of the potentials of each student and in the promotion of an inclusive school. This decree allowed us to count on the collaboration of entities that work for attention to diversity precisely as a reinforcement measure to it. The Council will encourage collaboration with 46 entities to reach 1,031 centres and help 7,729 students. We have an important way in which to go, but today's society is demanding new steps. On the other hand, in the current educational context, orientation is seen as inherent in education itself, as it seeks to contribute to the comprehensive training of students — regardless of their abilities, regardless of their needs — in order to empower them for an autonomous learning and an active, critical and transformative participation of society throughout their lives, and the involvement and counseling of parents and mothers and the rest of the educational community. The departments and educational guidance teams are called upon to update their training and unify the framework of action. In addition, this course in the Council is incorporating a second guide into the twenty educational centres with the highest number of pupils in Galicia and we are also defining an integral plan of vocational and vocational guidance. Education is a cross-cutting area, so when we talk about coexistence, when we talk about attention to diversity, we also have to talk about equal integration. In this context, we must not forget that pupils, families, teachers and management teams have at their disposal, as guide and instrument of action and intervention, the educational protocol to ensure equality, non-discrimination and freedom of gender identity and the guide of sexual identity. In addition, the Council of Education, University and Vocational Training we have a commitment to equality and co-education that guarantees an educational model based on respect and freedom. Aware that we are faced with a complex, non-simplistic, non-unifactorial issue that needs a comprehensive approach, the Council collaborates with the General Secretariat of Equality in the progressive implementation of the I Plan of Action for Equality in the Education Centres of Galicia 2016-2020; a document which provides for different measures and which has a progressive and gradual implementation in the expected time horizon. Educational communities have different materials that serve as a guide for prevention and action to promote equality, as well as to avoid situations of discrimination by sexual identity and to prevent gender violence, because, undoubtedly, this is a joint work, all of them, is a joint work of educational and social agents, and none of them can be profiled or derived responsibilities. The student and the teacher are already seeing their training on equality of men and women, non-discrimination by sexual identity and the need to refuse and combat gender-based violence without discussion. Thus, there is specific training with the module called "Equality, coexistence and inclusion", activities within the Project Plan and other actions such as the Maleta of Equality, the awards for equality and so forth. The result of the collaboration between the General Secretariat of Equality and the Education Council was the development of a co-educational guide that contributes to the dissemination, extension, of the principles of equal education, in order to reduce the impact of gender stereotypes and masculine violence. Together with these broad areas of action aimed at responding to some of the main challenges of current society, the Education Council is involved in strengthening educational innovation to improve the excellence and academic and professional performance of students, but also to promote and promote educational synergies. One more course, we make it easier for educational centres, involving students and teachers, to participate and assume as their own educational initiatives such as the program contracts, with a new call for the 2019-2020 course that presents news, as they reinforce the lines aimed at promoting equality, coexistence in classes and educational inclusion. In this way, the number of action lines goes from seven to nine, with the integration of two new ones: Live and Include, and the reformulation of the equality line, which is called Igualate. On the other hand, line 1 of reinforcement, orientation and support is reworded, which is called Reforzate. In addition, in the face of previous calls, where the reinforcement could be provided by teachers from the centre or external primary teachers hired by the Council, in the course of 2019-2020 will only be developed with external teaching. The Project Plan promotes activities, in collaboration with various departments of the Union, aimed at promoting educational innovation in the centres through educational programs that develop key competences, such as the axis of the curriculum, and the cross-cutting elements, in which education is included in values. The so-called SEMGal project, which is the evolution of an earlier program called Piteas and which now becomes entirely assumed by the board, therefore exclusively public funding. We will continue with the training and mentoring experiences for the development of talent in the classrooms, under the SEM methodology. As you see, we are addressing with responsibility and technical approach the needs of living together in the classrooms, from equal care and with inclusive and innovative teaching. In this course, in order to meet a recent mandate announced by the President of the Union in the debate on the state of autonomy in this same chamber, we are drawing up a plan of shock against school harassment that will have a preventive character. We are promoting the creation of a working group of experts to define the content of the plan from a technical perspective to current needs and future needs. On the other hand, to ensure the proper functioning of the education system in Galicia, we believe it is important to encourage teachers and management teams to be up to date to respond to the needs, demands and challenges faced by the student, and we believe that the management portal is being useful in fulfilling this task. But it is also essential that families receive information and advice on how the education system works, to be more proactive in learning their children and their children. To improve the communication and connection of families to the education system, starting on Wednesday, 23rd, the Family Portal will be active. To finish this first intervention, I would like to remind you that, after a course, the offer of vocational training qualifications in Galicia has earned in prestige and also helped to meet the job integration expectations of the student. One more course, Galicia was able to offer attractive vocational training, adapted to the socio-productive fabric and which fosters entrepreneurship, while taking significant steps to consolidate dual vocational training. The cycle offer for the 2019-2020 course was wide, and, even with the provisional data, the Welsh FP continues to grow course after course. In this sense, students are expected to reach 52,764, 3,3% more than in the previous course. As we have promised, the main developments in this course are increased by 58.7 % of the offer of dual FP cycles in relation to the current course. In this way, in this academic course, they start a total of 73 projects in this modality, compared to the 46 of the 2018-2019 course. The launch of the professional foreign language module, owned by the community, in the new titles in the 2019-2020 course, without language module. In particular, this module is in the cycle, for example, of higher degree of physical conditioning and the higher degree of Aeromechanical maintenance of aircraft with turbine engine. Of course, we have launched the Galician dual FP dynamization network under the implementation of the dual FP dynamization plan in Galicia, and we are working with the forecast to bid this year the works to rehabilitate the facilities of the former Marine Home School, in order to host the future Galego Innovation Center of the FP in Ourense. This new space will serve as an engine for innovation and entrepreneurship in vocational training, in addition to helping to foster synergies with the productive sector by transferring knowledge from centres to industry. On the other hand, throughout this course we will present and debulate the Galician strategy of vocational training, which will pick up future opportunities and accusations to respond to the qualifications needs of the Greek population in the coming years. The Swedish strategy for vocational training 2030 will have measures in dual FP, internationalisation, greater involvement of business tissue, promotion of R & D+i applied to pemes and the basis for the creation of new companies, attention to the needs of new professional profiles and training for the challenges of the coming decades. I'm done. I think I have exposed the work done by the Council to promote the normal development of educational activity in the whole of non-university education in Galicia, as well as to ensure a differentiated and innovative educational model, which has to be constantly adapted to meet increasingly demanding needs and demands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u158	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u159	Good afternoon, Counselor. It's obvious that we come to evaluate the start of the course, as it is mandatory, the start of a non-university course, but we're at the last school course of the legislation that began in 2016, and we think it's also obliged to make a global balance of the management of the Council and the state of non-university education, and not just these four courses, also of the entire Feijó decade, and for us, of course, it's negative. But in addition to focusing on the strictly beginning of this course 2019-2020, there have been a number of conflicts that for us come to demonstrate a global failure and a lack of substantive planning, because the theme of the works that were needed in the centers was not well planned, the special educational needs are not fully covered, and we could even talk about the perspective experienced with the FP cycle of emergencies on the Road; in addition to showing again, one more course, the lack of bet for rural education, because you yourself didn't talk about rural education. We wanted to point out this question of the FP cycle on the Road because it seemed to us like a chapuza. We learned on September 6 in commission - because the Director General moved on - that since December the Education Council knew that this increase in the training needs of local police at the Galician Academy of Public Security could prevent this course from being held, and we do not understand that if that course had been cancelled, after the registration cycle had been completed, these people who had enrolled knew nothing. It seems to us that he could take advantage of today to clearly demonstrate the need for continuity of this cycle on the Road and what his forecasts are. He also said something like this, that the opposition should bless the Council's efforts to condition the centres. I understood something like this... well, my partner moved me, who I was at the previous initiative. Well, there have certainly been numerous cases, and they are still the cases of centers that have not yet finished the works and that have really been prejudiced for the entire school community. It seems to us that this summer is an example of a lack of foresight in the organization of these works. But we also found the lack of dialogue between the Council and the affected school communities to be significant, denying the problem on many occasions. In the Fosgrada, for example, in principle, the CEIP student would go to the IES, then there was a counter-order and finally it was accepted, thanks to the pressure of parents and mothers, the start of the IES course. Also, for example, at the IES Ramón Cabanillas, of Cambados, began the course between waterfalls. There was a clear lack of foresight from the Council. In Cervo, we think the Council should apologize to parents and mothers, because the normal conditions for starting classes were not given. You yourself in an interpellation -- I don't remember what September day was, it was about to start the course -- it pointed out that they were circulating photos and videos that weren't of the day itself. And to us, the mothers of that school, they were teaching us videos and photos that were of their own day, that they were not invented. At last, there were continued situations. Even we are sent the situation that lives in the centre of the CEIP of Pontecesures - which still continues to be so - where the works are making it difficult to normal classes because the courtyard cannot be used... Finally, which is not a timely situation, the lack of forecast was structural. And as far as rural education is concerned, we wanted to point out, because after course we see a constant loss of education services in these areas, and we've already started the course in September, already with the previous July cuts, we have seven less schools, and so many more relocated schools in one center, and we're finally losing an essential public service in rural areas that not only fulfills the educational function but is also a dynamizing element of rural communities. And the only criteria that Joina has are by standard rates of how far a classroom needs to be removed, when in a country with a demographic regression we would also have to see what the social criterion of maintaining or not a kind of educational service in rural areas is. It seems essential to us, therefore - and we will propose it, as a number of social entities propose - to develop a specific education plan for the rural environment and a great dialogue in the country to address the need to maintain all educational services in rural areas. As for education inclusion, we cannot boast of being the community and the most inclusive system, when it includes not only integrating into ordinary centres and not having all the means to make such inclusion effective, so that it has the right measures. It's not a matter of time, no. As far as the special educational needs are concerned, this course has certainly been highlighted by the numerous complaints of the ANPA because of the lack of sufficient staff. We saw that demonstration in the Coruña. It seems to us that there is a lack of planning, and this is also seen in the report of the People's Valley. There's a relay for the necessary staff between the centres and the Council: where there are protests, they're going to cover holes; where there's no, they're not covered. There's no planning, and we know it's hard to plan all the special educational needs in the course, but there's a certain level that can be planned, because when a student or a student enters the system, there can already be a need for education support, at least for a decade. In addition, we think that there is a total lack of employment stability for special educational needs workers, partial recruitment, we have to share centres... so what we are talking about is that there is a structural lack of attention to diversity in the education system. It seems to us that we need to address this through a comprehensive plan, that there are clear criteria, that it does not depend on this relay between the centres and the Council and that the needs of each educational community should be taken into account in particular. Not always a caretaker is enough for five students or students with special needs. Well, we could cite a lot of cases where parents and mothers take on work to ensure the inclusion of their children in the centers. This course, as I say, was particularly bloody in this sense the start of a course with numerous CEIPs and IES who called for support for special educational needs. That's why we -- and to sum up -- want to see this plan for education in terms of diversity as proposed by the ANPA in Greece. This also includes moving forward in the reinforcement of that care network, so that it reaches all over the country, greater coordination between health, social and educational services, which allow them to plan and respond much better to these special educational needs and, of course, to have clear data on what is the distribution of staff devoted to care for diversity by centres. It seems to us that I would receive this global plan of attention to special educational needs. What other problems continue to drag on in this course? You said you had to commit yourself to the staff, commit yourself and regain your rights. It's time, after so much mantra that we left the crisis, to recover the 18 hours a week in high school and the 21 hours in early childhood and primary school, and thus to recover jobs. With your own data from the Council, we see that there are fewer teachers in public education in 2019 than in 2009. Not like that in private education, that there's a little more. It is also necessary that there is not so much roaming, as is the case, that more than half of the teachers with temporary high school assignments and FP share subjects from which they are not specialists. We have thus received some demands from this Parliament. For us too, there is little success in educational innovation programs, there is already a customary delay in calls, not covering all the markets offered, and there is a failure in the statutory obligation to promote language. The results of the last survey are very clear about the age of knowledge of the Greek and the skills in Greek of children who are in compulsory education. I believe that with this data the Counsellor would have made some mention of the data of use of the Greek in his exposure. Rateos. Well, it's still there. Of course, overall figures give, but there are very saturated centers, especially in urban areas, mixed classes in rural areas, and we need to address this need to reduce rates and adapt to the reality of the country. And then we also see a lack of dialogue. We received this week -- just like all groups, I believe -- the Welsh ANPA, who asked them for a meeting, but told them that they're very busy at the start of the course and that I'm not even able to receive them. There's a need for dialogue, which also tells those ANPAs, who protest at the beginning of the works, and those who don't even ask for forgiveness when they contradict realities, like they were the works in their center and say they're fake news. And they also talk about lack of dialogue between unions or associations that defend education in rural areas. We believe that it should be time to deepen the dialogue. I don't have any time left, I'll go on afterwards, because really the problems of this course start are not just this start of course, they drag a structural situation from the entire legislation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u160	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u161	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Good afternoon to the advisor, too. Counselor, you had a moment to put the sale before the wound; to me it gave me that feeling throughout your appearance, especially in the first part. You were talking about the works, which I think were, perhaps, one of the hot spots -- to call you somehow -- this school start. You were saying that it was "some point-incidence," and I was reminding you -- you seemed to me, since we talked about education -- an advantaged student of the People's Party. You'll remember your lordships that neo-language of which the People's Party likes so much. They said the recession was "a negative growth," they said that labor reforms were "the flexibility of the labour market"... so having hundreds of students, but also teachers and families concerned, especially because you were not informed, because you were coming to the school door - I'm sure we'll talk about where - and you see those walkers, and the workers, and the cubes, and the po... It was an uninhabitable and poorly prepared space to start school. You were talking about those works in these schools -- but we're talking about them now -- the 0.00 and something about the set of educational centers that exist in our country, but that 0.0000 something is names, they're people, they're younger people, they're children, they're teachers and they're teachers. I mean, we shouldn't take lightly that at the start and beginning of a school course we have centers, like at Cervo, at Foz, at Compostela, at Lugo, at Ferrol, at Salnes, at Fonsgrada or at Arzua, that are not available for lack of planning and for lack of forecast of the board of Galicia or in the appropriate conditions to start those classes. I insist that this situation remains. In the case of the Fosgrada college they continue to teach classes in the CEIP, or in the case of Arzua. At Arzua High School it rained in last week, Counselor. The 13th and 14th were flooding inside the center and there was to be taken, among others, the student of vocational training, who now I think has been relocated at least to be able to teach. Are they timely problems? What we think is that it is the result of a lack of forecast and a lack of planning on the part of the Galician Union, which I don't know if I thought would give you more time during the summer, or now it seems that the fault lies with the companies that run the bidding of the work. What can't be, is that the Galician Union doesn't have either the teaching centers with the finished works or a plan B to be able to relocate the student. And I insist that in the case, for example, of the college of the Fosgrada even the start of the classes was postponed. For us that was one of the points that actually marked the start of the academic course. We can't say in any case, therefore, that it was a normal course "with some point-incidence", no, and not that "the recession was a negative growth," but it's issues that, if they can be considered conjunctural, they somehow add to structural problems that drag public education into our country and also span each course start or along this one. Some questions have been dealt with by you. I already say that in his intervention, at least in the first part, he seemed to put, in some matters, the sale before the wound. You spoke of the gratitude to the teachers for their collaboration, so they involve the public education system of our country and the construction of a critical society and an inclusive and fair society in our country. It's something that makes me curious, and if I'm allowed the license, it's a bit despotic sometimes, because we listen repeatedly to the gratitude and embrace there to the professor and all the teaching staff, but then they refuse to listen to them, they don't want to know what the demands are, what the worries are, what the worries of that teacher. These days all the people we are in this House received the Budget Project by 2020, and I was surprised because another year -- in this case in a different area, but another year -- that Budget Project by 2020 picks up -- just like last year happened in the teacher's body -- a cut of high school staff, which is reduced to 45 jobs. This places the total number of secondary teachers, vocational training and official language schools in 29,942, the lowest since 2014. It seems to us that you are going — and the data, in addition, officers, broadcasts and published by the Council of Education and the Council of Galicia — contrary to the unanimous demand expressed by all trade union centres, for all of them, of the union centres. They claim to recover rights, they also claim to recover lost and cut professors in recent years, and rights above all that are closely linked to the improvement of educational quality, as is -- it was said before -- that recovery of the 18 periods of education in the bodies that teach in ESO, in bachelor's degree, in vocational training and in special regimen teaching; and 21 in the teacher's body for children's, primary and special education centres. It is the urgency — they insist all trade union stations, which have also been sent a letter to you and which, like the ANPAs, did not have to pay attention to them — to regain the educational schedule prior to the competitive invasion of the state with the approval of the Royal Decree of 2012. But also other issues, which are a constant demand, a permanent demand of trade union organizations, but also of the families themselves, of the whole educational community in which it relates to the reduction of student ratios by class — as was spoken here. And — I insist very much — this is not a matter of unique improvement and exclusively of the working conditions of those who teach, but it is closely related to the quality of teaching that is provided in the classrooms. It is indeed necessary to reduce these ratios, especially when there is a student with specific educational needs or with some kind of diversity. And especially take into account when the repetitive student needs more personalized and time-consuming attention. It is also a necessity — and so they constantly demand — that the whole budget should be recovered — and we will talk about this next week at the meetings, in the process of processing their own budgets, cut in recent years, and that we should take very seriously, very often present, the need - was also mentioned by Mrs Verao - from attention to diversity, and especially from the attention of the student with specific educational needs. Lack of specialized staff. This is a constant also every start of the course because, in addition, the Council takes some time to enable — let's say — the specialized staff in the various schools that require it. And this year I think they were even more public or more lively those demands and those family complaints, especially in the metropolitan area of the Crown, one of the most massive spaces if we take into account the population density of our country. This was a question that BNG brought through my partner, Mrs. Presas, to the last Education Committee, and that his secretary-general called "fake news." It must be taken into account the needs of the student, the demands of the family, the demands of the teacher, or even the report of what he has given today also the people's valet corresponding to the year 2018, where it is also said that these, precisely, are the complaints that raise more and more demands in the face of the People's Valley every year; complaints in many collective cases or that are signed by quite a large number of mothers and parents. We have agreed — and we have always repeated it from the BNG in all attendances — that we have to register in ordinary schools for all students with specific educational needs, but that must be accompanied by specialized staff, material resources and economic resources that correspond because otherwise we do not solve anything. The integration of students with diversity in the ordinary centres — I insist that it is something we support — cannot be guaranteed if they are not accompanied by the human, economic and material resources they need. And two questions only to finish this first intervention. You talked about the comprehensive orientation plan, but we don't know what ideas, what orientation, what forecast, and, above all, what budgets, what deadlines, etc. Two questions simply: one, the guide to co-education. We're in full agreement. I ask you, and we urge you from the BNG like this, here, now, live and live, to the teaching centres you first send to, with a letter of yours, whether to the centers that secrete the student by sex in the classrooms, into the concerted spaces that you are still holding; that is the first place to which you send this guide of co-education, because it is absolutely contradictory to continue to maintain centers with public funds that teach the student by sex in the classrooms and say that we want to promote co-education in the public education of this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u162	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u163	It's a contradiction. And the last question, which Mrs Verao also referred to, is that we just got to know the results of the IGE survey. They say it increases the number of children who can't speak in English...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u164	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u165	...1 out of every 4 under 15 can't speak the language of this country, and 30% can't write it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u166	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u167	And the Education Council doesn't have to say anything?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u168	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. For the Joint Left Group, Mrs. Chao Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u169	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. I would like to begin, Counselor, by thanking you for your presence. There are many government members who systematically throw the stone and hide their hand, starting with the president, who never opts to attend the opposition's request; they systematically refuse to disregard their obligations. There are many advisors and advisors who run terrible cuts for Greek citizenship and then they don't even have the slightest decency to come here to look. So it's fair to admit it. We want to start with this recognition because an appearance of this kind should not be the excuse that everyone comes here to release their arguments, but to take advantage of it that you are here to establish a dialogue with specific questions; a dialogue between the retired government of Mr. Núñez Feijóo and the groups that will rule this country sooner or later. That's why we bring up a series of questions about specific matters that I'm sure they're as concerned as we are. Many are the themes you've talked about, and the limitation of time forces us to select them. So, of course, we're going to start with what you started, with the works in school, because, as you said, they actually stared at the start of the school course. From our group we add to the complaints made by the ANPAs and schools that in many schools we could not start the course normally, and we talk about the center of Cervo, Foz, Monelos and Arzua, among others. And I'm going to stop these last two because they escape a little bit from the general tone: the Institute of Monoles, in the Coruña, and the Institute of Secondary Education in Arzua. Both had to suspend their classes last week -- it had been over a month since the school began -- because of the floods caused by the rains. It's true, you can't predict flooding, but suppose in Galicia it rains, yes, and suppose we need waterproof schools, too. So a month and a half later, we had to suspend classes because if the classrooms are flooded, we understand that it affects their responsibility. The works were not finished in time, and they were not finished in time because the forecast in his counseling is absent. In fact, we can talk about lack of forecast, lack of planning, but what we are concerned about most is the obvious model that underpins the educational policies of the People's Party. And that's why we have to talk, of course, about equal opportunities, a capital, central matter, in our educational project. We understand that the Greek Government should ensure that all children in Galicia will receive an equal and quality public education that offers them all the support they need, since we do not have a similar guarantee right now, Counsellor. On the contrary, the Galician Union is systematically and continuously discriminating the student with specific educational support needs. Judging by the treatment they receive, it seems that the Greek Government thinks that girls and children who face greater difficulties have even fewer rights than the others, because if they are not guaranteed the coverage they really need, they are being discriminated against. We don't assume that we talk about rights and we impose an aid logic that we totally misunderstand. And just today, it comes out of the resolution of a prize that we have to denounce as frankly wrong, prizes for the personal overcoming of the student for those who have the most difficulty and that the cole shows that they have overcome it. This is a shame, Counselor. Students who have problems don't need EUR 750 prizes, what they need are resources and full coverage of all their needs. He meets with the Welsh ANPA, who are demanding full coverage, and listen to them. We understand it's a wrong policy; mistakes that have names behind us, of what we understand, Counselor, that we have to talk about. You could come here and at least apologize to the families who have denounced your performance in the last few weeks, and you haven't done so, you have misused the occasion. As in the case of what we talked about a couple of years ago, Arturo — they will remember — in which case he had to end up acting the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia to condemn the Council for systematic ill-treatment of a Greek student. But this year we had an even more recent case, the case of Miguel, a student who, as you know, was in the CEIP Eusebius of the Guard, in the Coruña, and had to wait 37 days for the Council to act -- 37 days! Protests numerous, complaints and writings that the Council has ignored; 37 days that have alleged a violation of this boy's right to education; 37 days that, in our opinion, weighs a failure on his management. As surely you understand, Counselor, that is, in addition to an absolute shame that compromises the image of your party, an irresponsibility. Miguel is not only a specific case, one can't say it's the exception, it's an example of many other children who don't occupy the cover of the newspapers but who report that they lack all the attention they need in the educational centers. As much as they repeat that fake image -- which they will surely do next -- of equity and inclusiveness, the data is there and cannot be denied. They precarnate and privatize attention to diversity as they do absolutely everything. The penetration of the private company into the public leads us to continue looting public education for the benefit of their business; that is, acts go against declarations and messages. As much as the success of our education system is repeated, the cases are there. Mistakes like Miguel's, failures like Arturo's, like so many other crumbs, arthurs, anes, julios, spells... that they're saying the media aren't coming. They are a fruit of the failure of their educational system that families have to tackle by going to associations in the third sector to help them cope with their problems. What we ask ourselves is, what will the Council of Galicia do to end this unfair discrimination? How will you meet the student with specific needs? I've already told you that for us prizes are not the measure, that they have to increase the number of teachers of hearing and language, of therapeutic pedagogy and of educational technical assistants. Or are you going to keep cutting them off, as did the head territorial of the Crown? Because, if you don't agree, the same thing I had to do was get him out of charge right away. Equal opportunities also with regard to the start of the school course. We're talking about this in the full past. We understand that the return to school is a crucial issue for many families in this country who are unable to deal with the many bills they are supposed to have. Well, the question is clear: do you consider that EUR 50 is enough to deal with the start of the school course? His companion, his colleague of the People's Party, said yes. Tell us you think 50 euros are enough to pay all the school material, for the wallet and for the books. I'm telling you, no, that the reality out there is different. Some families go to organizations, NGOs, they do an important job buying books, buying cases, buying pencils, which was to secure the Government of Galicia. We want to talk — because you have given great importance to your intervention, of course — of the introduction of new technologies into educational centres. I'm telling you, you scared us a little bit when you said we were going to have to choose between teachers and technology. Too bad not for now! At the moment it's a false alarm, less bad! In this sense, we would like to ask you a very specific question: what, for example, is your commitment to free software? It's not a minor thing, because in your 2018 Free Software Action Plan Amtega says it will continue to strengthen the bet on free software; and it adds, even so, that the Abalar Project will continue to bring free software to the pupils of the Greek educational centers. However, surprisingly, the past course the Government of Greece signed an agreement with — what a surprise!— Microsoft to implement the Office 365 in schools, which includes a contract of nothing more and nothing less than 13.5 million euros—13.5 million euros, when you said you were betting on free software!— What does it mean to commit, on the one hand, to free software, and on the other hand to give Microsoft 13.5 million? This is something that really escapes us. We also have many questions, of course, for your great star project, the E-Dixgal Project. You will remember that last year we talked about this issue and we asked you to explain why families are charged up to EUR 400 when a team is broken. We must insist on that question. Because that day he tried to explain the inexplicable, that, of course, if the devices break, someone has to pay them. And they have to pay their families. It seems incomprehensible to us. Even more if we take care of something that happens as close as here. It should be noted that any Member or Member may be a disaster. I, for example, sleep, and if you break my laptop or your cell phone, I don't just have to pay it, I just can't pay it, I take it from Parliament. What we think is a scandal is that what is valid for Members and Members of Galicia is not valid for pupils throughout Galicia. Please correct, promise that there won't be a single family in Galicia who has to pay an invoice for breaking the equipment. Because, frankly, 400 euros for a team arrangement is an invoice that many Greek families can't face, and all they do is go against equal opportunities. This year, in addition, the start of E-Dixgal — and you didn't say anything about it — was done at the beginning of the course without the equipment being present in the classrooms. How can you explain this, Counselor? There have been complaints in many schools, you know, it's public. Writings were presented -- you can bring them here -- because many cols didn't have their equipment when they started their classes. Why? How can a program be presumed and that, starting the course, up to a month later, no computers arrive? And why do teachers get to work with teams they've never used and don't know? The professor demands that he needs specific training before launching such projects, which, of course, are positive, but resources and training are needed. And I end with another fundamental theme of the education system — which also stated the spokespersons that preceded me in the word — the situation of our language. You came here very proud of the results of multilingual education. It was obvious, of course, that 1 out of every 4 children in Galicia doesn't know the language, ignored the reports of the Royal Galician Academy or the Table for Linguistic Standardization...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u170	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u171	...that they warn that the school is a totally disqualifying agent. The question is clear: will the infamous decree of plurilingualism be repealed? And I end with one last question, Counselor, very simple.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u172	Thank you very much, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u173	How can you say you're in favour of equality and diversity when your party voted last week against withdrawing the propaganda from Hazte Hear in the educational centers?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u174	Thank you very much, Mrs Chao. You have another shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u175	You have made a statement on this matter, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u176	For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Álvarez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. First of all, I want to — agreeing with Mrs Chao — to thank you for your presence, which is something that should be customary, the accountability of public officials, but which is not. In your case, therefore, it seems double worth being grateful. I think there's a common denominator in the interventions that preceded me about the problem of starting the course. The point is, the start of the course this year has raised more problems than ever before. And I'm also going to tell you one thing, more than nothing to count -- not only in the Journal of Sessions, which will show up -- as a milestone. I'm going to make an explicit recognition of the Council's work in the rehabilitation of educational centres in this autonomous community. I'm going to do it because it's obviously necessary, and there wasn't a single opposition group that questioned either of the actions they did. More, others were asked not to do so, they didn't. By the way, and by way of anecdotics, a member of the parliamentary group who supports the Government presented an initiative to the 4th Commission to rehabilitate a school that was not included in the planning of the Council itself. But that is also part of the anecdotal of the functioning of parliamentary groups. What was the problem? The problem was the denial of the existence of problems. I mean, I think everyone can understand that there are incidences at the beginning of the course because there are complex works that take time and that are not finished within the initial period. By the way, among the explanations that were given when it was the beginning of the course it turns out that one was that August was a complicated month to obtain materials, there were problems of shortage of aluminum. And now we have one more factor, because it's also the fault of these 700 million that it seems the state owes to the Autonomous Community, which also delayed the work in the educational centres. Home!, I think it is obviously necessary to always seek some kind of explanation and responsibility, but, as Mr. Leicega said a very short time ago, we will pursue universal happiness and, if we fail to achieve it, the blame will be on the government of Sánchez. I think we should put things in their place, too. He said you denied reality, and I think that was the biggest problem. There were solutions that one day could not be carried out, such as in the CEIP Santa Maria, of the Foundry — as already mentioned — that the next day was an acceptable solution and that was the one that was finally adopted. So denying reality leads us nowhere but to aggravating our own problem. And the norm, Counselor, is the usual point, ever since, ever since, at the beginning of the education courses. Even if you're normal, even the Bipartite itself would start the courses normally, which is to say. That is, if the worst managers that this autonomous community could have started the courses normally, how will you not organize them, which are the champions of efficiency? And that's right, that's right, because obviously there's a collaboration of the management teams of the centers, also of the educational inspection services and obviously of the central services of the Council itself. And this normality — I insist — already existed before Mr Feijóo, just as were the desks and the blacksmiths in the classrooms. And you said that it seemed necessary to take stock of this last decade of the Education Council. There was a moment when I, following his intervention, said: Well, it goes on page 54 of data and figures of non-university education; now it goes on page 30, now it goes on page 52... and, indeed, I appreciate this publication — as we all thank it — that allows us to establish important comparisons. See, on page 69 of this report, the fact that you are proud of the early abandonment of education in the Autonomous Community of Galicia has already been discussed. What's the situation? The situation is that by 2009 this autonomous community was 5.1 points below the state average in early abandonment. I mean, we were at 25.8 percent while the average of Spain was 30.9 percent. And now we're at 14,9% and the state average is 18.3%. They both went down, but in order to maintain that trend, the early abandonment rate should now be 13.2%, and that is also a consequence of their policies over the last decade. We can talk — I do not have time — about the eligibility rate in compulsory secondary education, which was already below the state in 12 years, 14 years and 15 years in 2009 – 2009-2010. And that's a reality, too, that must be put in value. And with regard to the professor, which you referred to as the fundamental element of the education system, and which is, it turns out, from the course 2008-2009 to 2018-2019, that is, in that prodigious decade, in Galicia the teacher was reduced by 2.11%, that is, 1,274 people in public education. While in the state at that same time the professor has increased by 3.83%; i.e., contrary trends that also give good evidence of what policies have been carried out during this decade the Government of the People's Party. And you have — I'm going to let you tell it clearly but also with respect — a certain aversion to the participation of sectors and educational actors in the life planning of the Education Council. It is no longer that they have said that not to figures constantly demanded by this parliamentary group, but that others have been legally consolidated, such as the Galicia School Council and the School Convivence Council, it turns out that they do not even have the operating regime they should have. The Galicia School Council, which was created in 1986, that is, it has been operating for thirty-six years, must meet at least three times a year; and the permanent commission, once a month in regular session. We're going to make it clear, in these months, that those who are not educated, but the Galician School Council has not met since June 20, and the permanent does not do so since June 13. I mean, you didn't have permanent meetings in September, and they take every trace of not having them in October, except they're correcting this trend today. And the School Cooperation Council, the Autonomous Community, which you also referred to in your intervention, was set up by Decree No. 8 of 2015, and has functions of utmost importance, how to evaluate the situation of coexistence in schools and to set up strategies for the collection of information, analysis and dissemination of data, to promote research in that area of coexistence, what we are talking about; to analyze and propose lines of action in research, prevention and inclusion on the improvement of school coexistence; to propose initiatives to improve the school climate, to raise proposals for action to the Educational Administration and to carry out the follow-up and evaluation of these initiatives. It would be a waste of time for the House to make a relationship of all functions, but follow-up and evaluation continuously appear. You know that it would be very easy at this time to make some reference to the situation, even to the public knowledge of the problems of school harassment that exist in general, not only in the autonomous community of Galicia, which must be cut off. We have the instruments, we have the planning, but it's also true that we refuse to evaluate that planning permanently. And my attention is also drawn to the fact that, just in the course in which the Inclusion and Educational Guidance Service, dependent on the General Directorate for Education Management and Innovation, and the Training of the Professor, dependent on the General Directorate for Education, Vocational Training and Educational Innovation, depends on you, just on this course that is put into operation — because it was presented in April — the problems that were given to the staff needed for attention to diversity, particularly specialists in therapeutic education and in hearing and language. We created a service and just that course the situation worsened with respect to previous courses. Don't you think there's something striking here, something contradictory? Because, in addition, the worst of all of this is that you have in your budgets a number of teachers over whom you actually serve. So you tension the system unnecessarily. And I'm saying they're tense because, when there's a public transcendence of this kind of problem, practically all the cases end up being solved. Therefore, if they are resolved — and we believe that they are solved with discretion — the lack of criteria was a prerequisite for the application when denying that remedy. It is true that we have the percentage of integration almost the same, by the way, that Navarra — it is a tenth of a difference — with regard to the integration of students with special educational needs into ordinary centres. But — I insist — that situation should not have been given, and much less in this course. Madam Counsellor, apart from this accountability, in most of the statistics, which I insist that it is necessary, I would like you to talk to us about the future project of your own Counsellor, what effective response you will give to the rural school, what they will do with the teachers' schedules or what they will do with regard to the policy of textbooks. You spent 14 million euros in the last two courses just to serve a part -- not complete or far from the student.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u178	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u179	It's over, Mr. President. And with regard to equality policy, we have protocols, of course we have them. Do you know that the government-supported group has refused to evaluate that program three times?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u180	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u181	And that's the reality. You change that trend. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez. You have the floor, by the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u183	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Counsellor, as you can observe, your lordships were impatient by this appearance. But by the month of September, Mr. Álvarez, instead of making an inquiry, had advanced his appearance today. Mrs Rodil is advancing the budget debate today. Also today Mrs Verao and Mr Álvarez are moving towards the assessment of legislation. And Mrs Chao is still in her world of demagogy and manipulation. At last, Counselor, I will speak about the beginning of the course, as if you are making every beginning of school in the governments of the People's Party. Because we're predictable, the country's management needs forecasting, it doesn't need loopholes or occurrences to give security and stability, as with the pay agreement it has agreed to the Council with teachers through a dialogue agreed with the unions. I'm going to start, as well as all my fellows, making a reference to the works, like not! And I would like to begin by congratulating the team of the Education Council, as Mr Álvarez has done, on the excellent work. It's not easy or easy to marry administrative times with school parenting times, because it's really only two months ago that works don't interfere with teaching activity. This year, as you mentioned, it was exceptional thanks to the planning and management of Council officials and technicians, in such a way that this summer was the period of greater concentration of public works in the educational centres of recent times, with 54 works that we can consider larger and that have assumed an investment of more than 44 million euros, as you recalled. And in view of that evidence, opposition groups persist in their criticisms, bringing here concrete examples where there were incidences, focusing on timely cases with the aim of giving a chaotic picture of the Council's performance, when all situations are being shortened. And nothing further than reality, because since 2016 the Council is developing an infrastructure plan with technical criteria that extended its duration until 2021 and increased the budget by 73% to face more and better investments in rehabilitation, expansion or new construction of educational centres. Because the Council saw this budget supplemented with some of the surplus. No, sir, it's not the 700 million, it was the surplus, a surplus of what it took to arrive at the claim that it could be spent on the concepts that he wanted to spend on the Board of Galicia. As for the 700 million, we're still waiting for them, Mr. Álvarez. [[Applause]] And, as I said, that surplus was achieved by the good management of the autonomous Government, by presenting a healthy balance of public accounts, by the effort of the Greeks and the Greeks, and yet, as I said, by the late response of the Central Government, which had undertaken to finance the reduction of teaching hours. Don't put back on the table the reduction of a schedule without a firm commitment from the central government, please! And as a third point, because Galicia is one of the autonomous communities that most invests in the renewal of schools. Fortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the German schoolchildren do not receive classes in barracks, as is the case in eight autonomous communities — 20,000 schools in Catalonia, 12,000 in Valencia and 11,000 in Andalusia. Do you have any evaluation of your lordships of this fact? I'm sure not. Because there is neither appreciation nor criticism when the execution of works that depend on the municipalities or are not carried out or eternal. And I'm not going to set examples of the Bipartite, Mr. Álvarez and Mrs. Rodil, I'm going to set examples of today: Santiago de Compostela, the gateway to the CEIP of Fontiñas, a year's delay; Vigo Town Hall, diverting funds for the expansion of the Collegio Pintor Laxeiro to pay elevators; in Ames, a work of extension of dining still pending and more than six months' delay, according to Sermos Galicia, Mrs. Rodil; Betanzos Town, delay in building works of a covered courtyard. As always, I demand that Galician Union not do what they do in the municipalities where they rule. By the way, Mr. Álvarez, when you take your secretary-general — absent at the moment — taking the picture at the doors of a college, make sure that the problem really exists — this problem also named Mrs. Chao, in the Monelos, where the director herself said they had no problem giving classes without any kind of trappings. Counsellor, opposition groups are not interested in putting into practice the improvements in German education. They ask to evaluate, but when they give them data that indicates that Galicia is among the autonomous communities with the best results in the different ratios, because they make deaf ears. You were clear on that data. School transport serves 776 public centers. In school lunches, 74% of users are free and 7.2% pay only one euro. This course is incorporated by the Council of Sada to the financing agreements which the Council has established with 14 other municipalities. By the way, there are also obstacles in the school dining halls in socialist councils, Mr. Álvarez, as in the Town Hall of the Crown. What do we talk about the dining hall scholarships? What can we say to those dining alleys? There are also data on solidarity for textbooks, help on the acquisition of school materials. Mrs. Chao, 50 euros are part of a series of relief measures, not everything. You always like to be with one part instead of talking about everything. By the way, it's a free solidarity that's much more effective than the Bipartite model, as much as you're trying to claim it. Because we all know that it was neither free nor universal, that it didn't even have, Mr. Álvarez, a good management. It shows them the more than 21,000 books that were destroyed after a single use. I'm sure you remember this great Bipartite management. There is data that enable Galicia to be the most equitable community in the state, according to the Pisa report; and also data from the Ministry of Education, or the British Council — which you commented on — to certify that the Greek students increased their language skills in English, as you remembered. This is possible because the People's Party has betted by a multilingual teaching at all educational levels. And, as always, Counsellor, we have to hear that the school slips as an argument to demand the derogation from the Multilingualism Decree, as if children and girls had entered the teaching centres with a hundred percent of Greeks and had just gone out by 33 percent. Of course, then it is requested that the German Government, as Mrs Verao has done, pay for extra-school activities. And what is the extra-school activity reigns par excellence in this country? In fact, English classes. That's why it makes sense, ladies and gentlemen, that boys and girls learn and dominate at least one language within the education system, because that means equal opportunities. And as much as you deny it, Galician language policy has good results. Teaching is fulfilling its obligation, which is language training. Mrs. Rodil, you know perfectly well that between now and nothing there is such a large space as between one number and another, and you know that this data that you cling to as a burning nail is controversial. Because it's not a self-perceived data, because children are not the ones who respond to the survey. And you know that precisely because it's a little consistent data it's not included in many surveys, such as those that are done on Catalan, that reference of the Galician Nationalist Block. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not committed to confronting the Greek society by language, because the Greeks and the Greeks have shown that linguistic coexistence is exemplary in our community. Mrs. Chao, I'm just going to tell you that you promote irresponsibility, because it's not true that the arrangement of computers that we -- say -- is ruined by a failure of the system itself has to pay their parents. It's a way of matching children in the care of material that has to be used for many others. And, therefore, responsibility is also a way to educate in classes. It's obvious that opposition groups are installed in the fake news, gentlemen, to destabilize the work of the popular government. But reality is welded and independent reports dismantle the demagogic and manipulative discourse of the opposition, such as always referring to means to attend to inclusion, which you all know are increasing year after year. There's a difference of 300 experts since 2005 to what happens now. You're talking about data, Mrs. Chao, but it really doesn't come close, as always, none. It's just a word. And you feed, besides, the fake news, like Mrs Chao just said. We deeply regret that opposition groups prefer to continue to confront and politicize teaching, as we have recently seen in this House, Mrs Chao. The People's Group has tended to remove the teaching of the political dispute, particularly so that there is no questioning of the policy of equality, freedom and non-discrimination, aspects in which Galicia has been working for a long time and is pioneering both in legislation and in projects. However, the Joint Left Group encourages indoctrination in the classrooms, whenever that indoctrination is what coincides with its ideology. Because going out in favor of political prisoners, cutting roads and sowing hate to other territories from school classes and school yards is much easier. We want to move away from school politics and keep working on improving education without losing sight of the starting point. And the starting point is that today's teaching is better than five years ago, and much better than ten years ago. [[Applause]] Mrs. Chao, I recommend that you read Mr. Lago Peñas — not Manuel, I'm sorry, but Santiago — for the budget debate to see if his speech changes. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u184	Thank you very much. For the replica shift, Mrs. Pomar Tojo has the floor of the councillor for Education, University and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u185	Thank you, President. Today we see again how, once again, the opposition confuses the need to make educational policies by politicizing education. This confusion — it is obvious — is not uninterested, since it responds to a rush to discredit the Council's work, almost always groundless — almost always — or support for most citizens. Once again, the opposition's spokespersons and spokespersons are very critical of the education policies of the Union, but they seem to be good at the central government's performance and their own. Once again they reproach the Counsellor for the lack of planning, cuts, absence of evaluation and demolitional negative effects on Greek education. Like everything in life, this is a matter of perspective, it's an issue of focus angle, it's a question of self-criticism or, at least, of recognizing that there are things that are good. Hurry up, gentlemen, will I put the sale before the wound or do I not recognize the problems? Because they're contradictory to those values, those judgments of value. It's not about putting the sale before the wound, Mrs. Rodil, it's about making a start-up balance. And a realistic balance, of course, leads to comment on the points that have caused impacts and also on the strengths of the system; so I don't put the sale before the wound. In my first intervention I recognized that the works carried out marked this start of course in Galicia. In fact, with Mr. Álvarez, in the interpellation that I had as my goal to ask for the evaluation of the programs, we talked about the works. I answered him and I talked about the works. You criticize but don't clarify what the right action must have been. Should the Council give up doing the works? The Journal of Sessions, but also the hemerotheques, give evidence of what I'm going to say. On 10 April, on the occasion of a parliamentary question in this plenary session, I already warned of the risk of starting the next course with works for failure to comply with the authorization to invest the surplus. Where were the opposition's criticisms of this non-compliance then? What was your defense at that time of Galicia's teaching system? It's not about asking forgiveness, it's not about asking forgiveness for something very logical, because the follow-up was complete and constant, and the forgiveness was in that follow-up. I mean, it was a constant accompaniment from the very first moment. It wasn't about hiding information. On the contrary, the information was real and in real time. And I say more: the AMPAs, most of the AMPAs — especially those that were not politicized — collaborated and participated in decision-making, and were accompanied at all times. And so did several municipalities, some of which — exactly BNG — insisted and complained about how the municipal works were going. Despite the risk, it was necessary for the Education Council to do the works, and so we expressed it from the beginning. And, as far as it depends on our competences and compliance with legality, we have done everything within our reach to make it compatible with the need for improvements and the development of educational activity. With regard to the incidences in works by rain, this is not the first time that the temporal causes damage to educational facilities. And it's not about the improvements letting the water leak, but about the decks that were temporary -- some of them had to make a derailment -- the wind caused movement and let in the water. Therefore, it is not that the works — i.e. improvements — caused such floods. Technical teams at the Council immediately moved to the affected areas and worked with teams from some municipalities, centers and companies to solve the incidences. There was a problem, but there was action to solve it. Sometimes the opposition seems to demand that the Council act in advance, as if there were no situations that were difficult to predict or shorten until they occur. You know that government tasks rest on solving conflicts with speed, in addition to preventing others. So there was no lack of forecast, and there was no lack of planning. You're also talking about the constant attack on rural education. In this course, there has been evidence that there is no such attack on rural education, as has been defended since the Council in recent years. It's acting depending on reality. I insist that a unit in Negueira de Muñiz has been enabled to count with enough students and students. This is what the new children's education alumni in Coiros, the performances in the CRA gardens, the CRA mergers to keep them alive, the permanent meetings I myself hold with the CRA directions. Schools are always open with at least six students, but not only a logistic or organizational criterion, but also a socio-pedagogical approach. So there's no attack on rural education. You're also talking about cuts in specialists in therapeutic teaching, hearing and language. Mrs. Chao, I wonder if we should eliminate the paralympics, is it discriminatory to give a gold medal to a disabled person, should they compete with elite sportsmen without disabilities? It's more, I invite you, I invite you to come to the delivery of these personal surpassing awards so you can tell those children and those girls that they shouldn't be awarded. Do it, I invite you. Often, at every beginning of the course, by some educational communities there are demands from more professionals of therapeutic pedagogy, more professionals of hearing and language, issues that sometimes respond to reality and others not. Course start does not respond to a fixed photo, but needs to be adapted depending on the situation analysis at each time. There can always be a new case of a student or a student who needs attention. The fact is, when this case is detected with psychopedagogic criteria, the Council acts and pays attention. One thing is to solve individual cases at the moment they appear and another to do it preventively. Each year, at the beginning of the course, the Educational Inspection analyses with the management of the centers the new educational needs identified after the schooling period and evaluates how to give them the best possible response. Therefore, the Educational Administration is in constant contact with the educational centres to know and respond to timely needs, since these are the channel families should use to manage their requests. The Council provided the education system with more PT and AL, which exceeded the minimum amounts collected in the 2007 staff catalogue agreement signed between the Bipartite and the trade unions. For example: since 2018, the number of AL and PT has been increased in the catalogue with a quantity of 171 — of which 113 are AL and 58 are PT. But even more, by referring to the end of September 2015 date, the Greek educational centers had 1,930 PT and AL, and by 2019 2,165 are working with these specialties. Where are the snippets? Galicia increased the number of professionals dedicated to diversity care, since in the 2009-2010 course there were just over 2,700 and today we have over 3,500. That is, more than 1 in 10 professionals in education, 1% are specialists in caring for diversity. This provision of staff contributes to the fact that the Welsh education system is, as we say, the most inclusive of all Spain. You're also talking about teacher cuts and changes in your days, another criticism that has to do with the decrease in the number of teachers. Regarding the decrease in the number of teachers, it would be positive to have a little relativism from a review of hemotheques: Information in the newspapers of September 18, 2008: The voice of Galicia: "The complaints about the cut-off of teachers mark the start of the course in secondary education. The unions claim that half a hundred institutes will have fewer teachers than last year."; Faro de Vigo: "The unions report that the secondary course begins with 250 places of teachers less. Nearly 25% of the centres have not yet closed the template." What is the reality of the current German Government? I've already shown it in this House. In times of crisis we had to ask the professor for an effort, but it is also true that this government is committed — and I said it in my first intervention — to a stable and sufficient staff, to the job stability of teachers, to the pay improvements and to the continuing training of teachers. Regarding the reduction in teaching hours, the position of the board is also known. It is important to point out that even unions remind the minister of education that the same law that recommends the reduction of educational hours also points to that the State will facilitate budgetary conditions to be carried out by autonomous communities. In any case, do you know, ladies and gentlemen, that, according to the data published in this same course by the Ministry of Education and referred to in the data and figures report corresponding to the 2017-2018 course, Galicia is the autonomous community with the lowest teacher/student ratio, this being 10.3? Do you know that some of the autonomous communities that are thinking about lowering school hours keep their ratios above the recommendation? Perhaps this supplementary data forgot them. At a time of political and economic uncertainty like the current one, taking a reduction in educational hours without taking into account the financing of this measure would be a real irresponsibility. You're also talking about that the Councillor's office, and this same advisor, is in a sort of trance, in a bunker, which doesn't receive anyone and is totally isolated from reality. I've been taking on the responsibility of conducting the Education Council for more than a year, and I've started with a round of meetings with different entities, associations and unions. And from the beginning — and whenever I can — there are many educational centers I visited to first-hand know the educational reality of Galicia. When I visit centers, I talk to students, to teachers, even in some cases to families, because I also had the opportunity to agree with parents and mothers of students in some acts. It's not isolated, it's something I've been doing since conviction, and almost weekly. So the Council is neither isolated nor stopped talking to the collectives. The means by which we try to be up to the feeling of the educational community are varied: the sectoral table, the management portal, from the Family Portal, the macro-enquisition of coexistence. We can understand that every individual, every entity, every member of the educational community, aspires not only to be received by the advisor, but to have their demands met as they want and at the moment they want. We call for reality to be understood as well. The reality is that as important as talking to those who ask for a meeting is to meet the obligations of managing and directing everything that involves the education system in Galicia. But I won't be the one who won't join me or meet anyone. They're many, but coincidentally, some of the replicas they did to my first intervention. Some are more punctual, like, for example, that famous, unfortunately -- it's better not to talk about it, I think we make it famous by talking about it -- the campaign of Hazte Hear. It enters the autonomy of each centre, of each management team, the sense of responsibility in bringing information to families, and, in any case, they always have to comply with constitutional principles and educational regulations. It is common sense that there are pamphlets that do not have to be distributed to families; therefore, we fully trust the responsibility and common sense of the management of educational centres in the sharing of information, which in no case — not that of Hazte Hear or any other — can go against the principles of equality, respect and non-discrimination. [[Applause]] You're still talking about the high expenditure of families at the start of the school. The Education Council has been supporting the return to the school of families for years. Galicia is one of the autonomous communities that devotes more resources — I insist, more resources — to help with books and school materials. The Education Council shares these aids among the aids to school material, which are received according to income — hence those most in need of income — and, in addition to this, the solidarity aid of textbooks, the model of solidarity free textbooks, which has two components: these economic aids and also that solidarity fund, which, depending on income, distributes free of charge between four and six textbooks, which comes to the for many families all the books they need. Economic aid ranges from EUR 250 for special education students to between 170 and 90, depending on income, for students with a disability equal to or greater than 65% who attend primary education first and second. Faced with this, they make a constant appeal to recover that system of supposed total free books that was in force with the previous Government, with the Government of previous color, the Bipartite — or of previous colors — without taking into account income and forgetting that families also had to pay for one or two books and pay for photocopies as well. As a matter of fact, it was a system with a management questioned by the educational communities themselves, to the point that, to speed up their operation, they ended up hiring a private company, as I said in this House in another intervention. We believe that this proposal is not accepted, we believe that we must follow the model which, in this case, the people's defender, because I refer to the defender of the state people, because the people's valet has come out here so many times, he has set as an example, the Greek model. But you insist, you persist in claiming what didn't work. They also say that the Council does not evaluate its programmes — especially Mr Álvarez —. That's where we ended up talking about works. I lent myself, of course, to talk about works because it was inevitable and, in addition, urgent. Let me emphasize that the Council is following up on the implementation of the educational policies put in place. It is prudent and always develops pilot projects before implementing a plan. And it adapts the measures to the reality of the centers in each school course. Therefore, educational policies can be evaluated in many ways, including educational statistics, as with this early dropout; which, by the way, knows that in the last quarter school dropout is in just over 12%, it is no longer 14%, which was the average, but now in the last quarter we already have a lower dropout rate. I think we're 12.2 percent or 12 percent or less. Education policies — I said — can be evaluated through statistics, reports of different types, such as PISA, and the good level of budget execution, which is also important and which you often forget. The Council implements programs, implements plans in a progressive way, and, as it is logical, monitors their evolution and introduces improvements when needed. Any evaluation, to be rigorous, has to be done with criteria, over time, with neutrality. And, of course, we are from the Education Council. We've got a way along, but we're still engaged and we're facing new targets and new challenges. You were asked to implement something more of this guidance plan and everything that has to do with the strategy of inclusive education, the prevention of harassment and equality. We are aware that Galicia, while maintaining but also enhancing what works, must update its university educational model for 21st century citizens. That's why in this course we'll renew our commitment to attention to diversity and inclusive school. Do you know that the ratio per professional in special education centers is greater than in ordinary schools? A fact I've forgotten before and it's also important. He said we followed the bet for attention to diversity and inclusive school. We will implement this strategy of inclusion Educlusion 2020-2025 with measures such as updating the legislation on diversity care, which I did not say in my first intervention. This 2011 legislation will be updated and developed through an order which will develop this current decree, and which will include approaches — so as not to say that we do not take into account other agents, other institutions and other bodies — of Educational Inspection, specific guidance teams, guidance departments, resource training centres advisers and, of course, all those other institutions and bodies, including that School Council, but also associations of pupils' families with specific needs and professional support from special education centres. In addition to this update of the legislation, other measures will be to: encourage the pupils to receive specific educational needs for specific educational support needs at regular centres or in combined school schools; encourage the special education centres, which also exist in their capacity as centres of centres of attention to special educational needs and as centres of educational resources, other measures will be: to encourage pupils to school specific needs for educational support in regular centres or in combined schooling; to encourage the special education centres; to encourage the special education centres, which also exist in their capacity as centres of attention to special educational needs and as centres of educational resources — we have two useful meetings with directors and managers of these centres of special education centres of special educational support; to develop and develop and develop a training impact-raising plan for people special education centres of specialized educational education centres, which also exist in their special educational centres of attention to special educational needs, which also exist in their special educational centres of special education centres of special education centres of special education centres; to develop and to develop, to improve the attention of diversity and improve the diversity of diversity in the education in the teaching education of the teaching of the teaching of the teaching of them, the teaching of them, and teaching of them, and teaching, sharing of them, sharing, sharing of them, sharing of the knowledge, sharing of the knowledge and sharing of the knowledge and good, sharing of knowledge and good, sharing of knowledge and good, sharing and good in the knowledge and good in the best, and good in the best taught, and good in the lessons, and good, and good in the lessons, and good education of the lessons, and good teaching of the lessons, and good education and good education and good teaching of the lessons, and good teaching of the valuable, and good teaching of the lessons, and good, and good, and good practices, and good practice and good practices and good practices and good practices and good practices and good practices and good practices, and good practice and good practices and good practices and good practice and good practices and good practice and good practices and good, and good, and good practices and good, and good practices, and good, and good practices and good practices and good practice and good, and good practices, and good practices and good practices, and good practices and good practice and good, and good, and good, and good, and good, and good practices and good practices and good practices and good practices and good practices and good practice and good practice and good practice and We will propose that the special education student begin in some sports and sports activities and that he can participate in the various sports competitions, for which the teacher responsible for the physical education he attends will be trained. Every education system must center its students on innovative projects, with projects adapted to the times they are touched on. In addition, it is important to equip the professor with the necessary mechanisms throughout his career to ensure success in the process of teaching and learning. One more course, the Council of Education, University and Vocational Training renews its commitment to a quality Greek education, with an inclusive Italian education. And we aspire to lead with concrete proposals the educational process of future generations of Galicians and Greeks. In this important task, we would like to count on the whole educational community in Galicia and, if possible, on all the groups represented in this Parliament. Finished with beautiful words from writer Siri Hustvedt, to whom I never get tired of reading, "I learned that not one genre, not one discipline, not one discipline, is superior to another or another. We must fear our own prejudices. Science is neither high, intellectual nor masculine, nor arts and humanity are inferior, emotional and feminine. We must learn that authority and wisdom come in many formats, genders, colors, shapes and sizes. We must learn from each other and recapitate." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u186	Thank you, Counselor. Special round. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u187	I wanted to start by responding to the PP's voice about the good results of the language. I think, seeing the IGE survey, you can't have any triumphalism. But besides, I don't know if you live what it's like for a family, in a context where the Spanish language is hexemonic, because the Spanish language is hexemonic in this country, having a son or a daughter who with schooling changes to tell me. I don't know if you've experienced that, but that's what's happening in this country. They both referred to, both the advisor and the PP voicer, who can't be politicized. But what was the decree of multilingualism and the survey of families more than politicizing in an infamous electoral campaign, in which they broke the consensus around linguistic normalization in this country by a handful of votes? Police! Let's go to the subject that deals with the start of the course, but also to that perspective that the counselor appealed to. Perspective to analyze what we're dealing with. Well, an example of perspective can be seen in the budgets. There are already the accounts for 2020, and with these accounts, the budget for education would still be - also trying to calculate the expected GDP increase - by 3.8% of GDP. If we want to reach 5%, or at least 4.7% on the average of the European Union, we still have a few steps to go up. In addition, however, budgets in primary and primary education and ESO are reduced by 1.7% compared to 2009. Just as the teacher's training is reduced. You have often referred to that need to increase, but that translates into budget shares, and this match, in particular, suffers from a chronic stagnation. As for the inclusion of education, by not continuing with a question that I think has been sufficiently exposed, we have become a particular element, and that is that these specific guidance teams are infred. We think it takes too long, sometimes, to diagnose for that cause, because they're great professionals. We think it would be necessary, and I ask you if you are planning an increase in the appropriations for these teams. As far as equality is concerned, it's clear that there is no diagnosis of how this plan of actions for equality in educational institutions is going. We've had the motion debate about the Socialist Party in the past plenary session, and it's as alarming as a plan that has easily measurable indicators there's no transparency in analyzing what the course of equality is. But as other voices have already been told, equality and co-education are incompatible with keeping concerts segregating by sex. We have to change the order of concerts that have stopped taking care of centres that develop a principle of co-education. Besides, taking advantage of the budgets, in that audience you could specifically tell how much budget goes to those schools that continue to maintain the infamy of segregation by sex, which is totally contrary, on the other hand, to the philosophy of that Plan of Action for Equality. We have also forgotten to speak in the intervention — and it has not been mentioned here — of the question of religion and inequality that involves the student who, as well as a recent judgment that has just reached — in order to opt for robotics in the bachelor's degree, had to choose religion to complete the hours. That's really intolerable for us. Speaking of challenges, you have launched here the need for us to dialogue, and with us you can count on that dialogue for a more inclusive education. We're also going to add some of the remains that we believe should not only have this school course, but the next decade, as far as teaching is concerned. For us rural education is essential, I have already signaled it. One cannot deny the evidence that there is a deterioration in teaching in many rural areas, a loss of services. We will also advance a debate on the need to deepen in school nursing, as an instrument to advance in that affective-sexual education that is so necessary to place in our classrooms to prevent macho behaviors, to avoid them, but also that school nursing — it is an interesting debate — could improve nutritional education, that challenge of increasing childhood obesity. Also, of course, the inclusion of social education in classes. You minimized that question in a press interview. We believe that it is essential to address all these challenges faced by young people and children. Also the inclusion of teaching 0 to 3 as an educational stage; or as has already been exposed, the elimination of the class gap that continues to exist in teaching. Finally, they will have us there to dialogue on these premises but with perspective: budgets, budgets.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u188	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u189	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. What we do politics, what we do politicize and what we have ideology is something you hear here like a little lady, right? I'm going to tell you something: this is a parliament, it's political here, it's ideology here, and it's political projects here. [[Applause]] Especially for something, for one thing, because I think that at the moment when we are, in general terms, not only in Galicia, I think it's extendable to the Spanish State, to the situation in the European Union and in our immediate surroundings, we are sending a very dangerous message to our society. We do a weak favor to democratic systems when we question the contrary because it defends its ideas with respect, with education, as I think it is the general tone, in general, in this House. Above all, trying to make you believe — and I think that many times that is the idea that you move from the People's Party — that here is governed by a technical approach. Then we'll stay. We are left with the parliaments, we are left with the representatives and political representatives and we are able to govern the officials. I believe that we do little favor — I insist, since we talk about education to democratic systems by launching this message from this House, from the political heart of this country. We do politics, we politicize, we have ideology and we defend political projects, which is what we do here. [[Applause]] And we're critical, because to tell you what you want to hear, Counsellor, there's the Popular Parliamentary Group, not the Block. Not the Block! [[Applause]] We're demanding, we always say. [[Murmurs.]] We are critical, we stand up for it firmly and vigorously, but I also believe that with respect and education, our political position, and, above all, what we believe needs to be improved or what needs to be changed. To give him soap is the group that supports him, who also fulfills that democratic function. And we're critical, in addition, in front of what we believe. I was looking for her as a qualification, not for you on a personal level, but for intervention, or for appearance, or for the Union of Galicia in a broad sense. I think I'm a negationist government. Everyone's lying, everyone's wrong, except you, of course. Nothing's real, everything's fake news, everything's an invention. But I'm going to give you an example. We could put on several, but we're going to put on one because time is limited. Speaking of caring for specific educational needs, and for diversity, because often, when we think about diversity, we think of a person with disabilities. Today morning Mrs Santos — now she is not — I think she did a very successful intervention when she said that we are all diverse and everyone has different abilities. A person who wears glasses, or myself, surely, who has a lot like anyone else. In the two centers of the Valdeorras Boat, Madam Counsellor, this course has 23 more students who need hearing staff and language. They are refugees who form part of the reception programs that are fortunately developed in this country. It carries the teacher, the educational community, demanding that staff be expanded to be able to care for 23 more children who are coming, in addition to other countries, who need support and personalized attention, not already for a question of training or acquisition of knowledge, but of inclusion in Greek society, and the Union, which is wrong, denied. He refuses to acknowledge that need and to address it by broadening the resources he needs. The same thing happened in the metropolitan area of Coruña, as was said. We, from BNG, also transferred him to Galician board at the Education Commission. There was a permanent mobilization, and mothers, parents and teachers don't invent things, they don't complain about vice, because it's a subjective matter. If you have a supportive person, an PT or an AL, two hours a week, hello! There's the need covered! Besides, a traveling person, who is with you today and spent tomorrow in the center of the side, on the side of the same county or the municipality on the side literally. We cannot believe that everything is solved, that specific educational needs are properly met. Many of them, in addition to ten years ago, were not even considered a priority. Society is moving forward. Less bad, too, for us in our set. We insist, we need a plan. And we also hold the hand of the dialogue to that comprehensive orientation plan. We need a plan to pay attention to diversity, but most importantly, we need resources, and that costs money, it costs money! That's where the priorities have to be set. I'm done with this. I was talking about the teacher's cut. I'm talking about the budgets because it's data that has the Galiza Union stamp, that comes out of the Galician board, the Education Council. I understand you won't question what you yourselves do. And I'm going to tell you again -- and with this, I'm really done -- it's not that I'm clinging to the data from the IGE survey as if it were a burning iron. I wish I didn't have to put those results on the table! The reality and tendency that we live in disqualification I think no one can deny it in this country. All I ask is a reflection of who has the competences or the obligation and the political responsibility to have to guarantee equal competences in English and Spanish. If there's one in four under 15 years of age who says he can't write in his own language, something will have to say to the Education Advisor! Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u190	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Parliamentary Group Joint Left Group, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u191	Thank you, President. I used to say it, there's a lot of subjects and we don't have much time. That is why we decided to select few questions, to try to focus the debate, but we failed, because few questions, but fewer answers. I'm starting, then, for the last question, because you mustn't understand it well. What we asked him is his stance on a People's Group decision. How can one respond to a People's Group's decision to vote against the withdrawal of the propaganda of Hazte Hear from the educational centres, answering with what the directors of the educational centres do? I don't know, Mrs. Anton spoke of demagogy. I don't know how qualified this is. I don't know how qualified this is. It's unacceptable that there is this propaganda in the teaching centres and voting in favour of propaganda going on in the teaching centers and against its withdrawal. I don't know what they call him. Counsellor, it would be easy, send a direct and clear message to the teaching centres demanding the withdrawal of this propaganda. It's not about trust, it's about you doing your job, nothing else. How can you continue to talk about commitment to equality in education when you keep -- we have to insist -- concerts with the macho centers that separate the student? Our proposal is clear: the end of this kind of concert. Study of ways to integrate private centres into the public network. Of course, Counsellor, we regret to tell you that this is a clearly political issue, obviously. We're with public services, you're obviously not. We have other important issues on the table, which we haven't had time to talk about before, as they are, for example, that of school dining, a subject that concerns us, because the issue of feeding minors should be a fundamental matter. It conjugates, in addition to other fundamental rights: the right to equal opportunities, to food and to health, is therefore a sensitive subject. We think that educational centers have to foster healthy lifestyles at all levels; also, of course, about food. Therefore, we find it unacceptable that the privatized services of the dining rooms continue to offer pre-cooked products of dubious nutritional value; even more so in cases where they became famous thanks to television, as was last year the case of the Maria Marine Special Education Centre. We would like the People's Party to commit itself directly to taking seriously the food that minors receive in schools, which they will promote healthy lifestyles and that they will not allow private companies to negotiate with the health of children and children through the dining rooms. It's not a matter of doing business, it's a subject where the Council must decide which side it's on. Unfortunately, too many times the Council's shift towards private interests, because it's in the dining rooms but it's also in all the teaching programs. You've been cutting down on the resources available for public education for a decade while you've grown up and finished the concerts, while you've forgotten that business would continue there; and there was no possibility of suppressing them if the government changed. Business is always safe for your friends. The question is whether the Government is willing to engage in public education or rather to continue favouring private centres, much closer, of course, to its ideological line. Both things can't be at the same time. Equality or discrimination, you have to choose. And you choose when you decide to reduce the weight of GDP in education by 6 points. They're choosing and sending a clear message, saying that the public has to keep weighing less, that the public services have to keep weighing less. In this sense, the budget proposal we have on the table is completely continuing, it exacerbates the problem: in 2009 we had 4.23% of GDP for education, today that figure — with the latest data — is 3.63%. It's not demagogy, Mrs. Antonio, it's called data, and it's yours. I mean, we didn't invent anything, it's the one that publishes the Council. They are 6 percentage points less than this country's wealth to meet the obviously growing needs of children and children in Galicia, because obviously society is moving forward and has new needs. With those figures, Counselor, there is one thing that is clear: neither will the teaching squares that have been removed from the crisis, nor the hours and rights of the teacher be recovered, nor will the specialists of attention to enough diversity, nor will they be prevented from attending classes, nor will their ratios be reduced. And I take advantage, in fact, to ask you a very simple question about this: how can you explain that the repetitive student doesn't count on ratios? This is a very simple question that we asked your predecessor in charge and that he couldn't answer. It doesn't surprise us, because it's very hard to explain that when you count the number of students in a classroom, the repeaters are invisible. I wish I could explain it to you! Our proposal is clear: budget recovery, commitment to equal opportunities, special attention to diversity — that, of course, rights cost money—, tireless struggle from classes against macho violence, reduction of ratios, recovery of the teachers' working rights and real accounting of ratios, both the repeater student and not trapping statistics — that there are two chickens, we eat each other, but in fact, one person ate both. Teaching, Counselor, they're not Olympics, they're not, and they can't be. In any case, it would be a team cooperation game; it can't be an olympic where only the fittest come in. We want the Educational Administration to lay the groundwork for anyone to stay behind. I think in this case the subconscious, with this metaphor, played a bad past.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u192	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Allow me, Madam Counsellor, as usual, to a popular classic — as Mr Villares said the other day — that my first words on this last occasion are for Mrs Anton, who is the leader of the opposition to the education field. First of all, actually, I made a mistake, so I apologize. The Counsellor said it was a problem of authorization to invest the surplus, not of the 700 million. Then I think I made a mistake, you might be able to explain, I don't know if it's because of the unaccompanied perception of reality or conditioned behavior. The truth is, at the last plenary session, every time one of you came out here, it said 700 million, whether you'd come or not, then, I went in automatically, it's true, with a conditional response, and I said it's 700 million because they're talking about money. [[Applause]] I repeat, I apologize for the mistake. [[Applause]] In any case, with regard to only three statements that you have made, the reduction in teachers' hours is linked, according to you — and that is true — to the modification of the real famous decree-law of the year 2012 — to a transfer of funds. I wonder how other autonomous communities have already reduced teachers' schedules? Did they give them the money by the back door? Or what can be done with the legal and budgetary margin we have? You spoke of photos, would you like me to present you a book by Mr. Balsairo, representative of the Galician Union in Lugo, praising normality at the beginning of the course with respect to the works of educational centers? I can introduce you... I think if you say book, I don't know if it's the right term, in any case, a picture of it, maybe the description is more graphic. [[Murmurs.]] You said 21,000 books would be destroyed. This looks like 1984 and the burning of books! [[Laughter]] I don't know where you got that data from in 21,000. Perhaps it was true, but perhaps one of those who was destroyed — or stopped using it, which is not the same — also had to do with a change in curriculum and even distribution of subjects between courses, at best...! Counselor, look, I didn't tell you to apologize for the problems of the works, I didn't say so. What I did tell you is, if you recognize the problems that occurred at the beginning of the course, nothing happened either. I think it would magnify the Government's action to say as long as there were problems at the start of the course, instead of going out some photogenic delegate saying there was none. [[Laughter]] I didn't say you were making a premeditated attack on rural school, neither did I. But I talked about giving an effective response to the reality that we have, and perhaps, although you're actually keeping the ratio that was established in 2009, that ratio, ten years later, has to be revised. I mean, maybe that number five or six to close a unit school isn't worth it, because it's not worth it in other autonomous communities either, so we can review it. But you're systematically refusing to participate in a decision like that. You spoke — and rightly so — of the student/teacher ratio of this autonomous community, which places us at the lowest ratio, 10.3, and it is true. But it's also true that Estremadura has 10.4, that Asturias has 10.7, that Cantabria has 10.9, that Castela-Leon has 10.9 as well; that is, there are a lot of autonomous communities that unfortunately coincide with that empty Spain or, in any case, with a major demographic crisis. You know perfectly well, from a statistical point of view, that this has a lot to do with the ratio being where it is; not so much because we have an unmeasured number of teachers, but because we have an increasing number of students, and hence arithmetic produces that result. I didn't say you were isolated. I know that you have a broad schedule of school visits, and I think it's very good that you talk to teachers, students and families, it seems perfect! What I've said is that you're averse to participation, because I've sent you some information regarding the meetings of the Galicia School Council, and the permanent in particular, and also the Convivial Observatory, which is far worse. I can understand that because of the problems of one's agenda and another's meetings were not held in September, even in October — I can understand — but it is in the rules that must be met. But in the case of the Convival Observatory, man!, that since 2015 there were two full and one permanent... freely, you have to think! With regard to the responsibility — it is not because of greatness, but rather that I would quite frankly forget this episode — with regard to the pamphlets — because the pamphlets qualify — of Hazte Hear, the truth is that they have reached some center. And if they got to some center and assume that the responsibility of the management teams and common sense prevents that from happening, you end up concluding that in those cases there was neither that responsibility nor that common sense, necessarily. If one thing is yes or yes, the reality is that. You say you will develop the 2011 Decree of Care and Diversity. I'm glad. It wasn't timeless, because we're talking about a regulation eight years ago, and I celebrate the arrival of that comprehensive orientation plan. In any case — to finish as I began — I sincerely thank you for your presence at this plenary session. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u194	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u195	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor. Mr. Álvarez entered automatically with 700 million and Mrs. Chao is in a permanent automatic, because she doesn't care about the same topics with the same false arguments. [[Applause]] Counsellor, the most widely used word by opposition group vociers is always cut. Indeed, as you acknowledged, we had to adjust the budget of the Galician board in 2009 and so on, and it seems that no one remembers why. And the education system also had to adjust its budget, but not in a significant way, as they want us to believe. Galicia is the second-largest autonomous community to be seen by students, the third-largest public spending on education per inhabitant under 25 years of age. And in spite of all these famous cuts, the best results are being achieved in the last four years: the early abandonment rate, the lowest in history; the rate of interinternity of teaching bodies, the lowest in the state; the ratio — which he was now commenting on — teacher/student, the lowest in the state, with 10.2 pupils per teacher. Mr. Álvarez, if we actually have the lowest ratio of students per teacher, it's because we're paying attention to all students with a sufficient number of teachers. And also the inclusion rate of 92.7% of students with special needs integrated into regular centers, which has been discussed here this afternoon. Let me stop here in front of the announcement you just made, just when I was talking about updating the legislation on attention to diversity to link the entire educational community in the school center with officials from different departments of the educational administration that have to do with this topic. You were commenting on one of your first appearances that I thought the teaching centers should be real centers of learning and innovation, but also of coexistence and respect. So we must not forget that since the autonomous administration, we have been working to ensure that the teaching of Greek is an equal teaching, respecting freedom of thought, freedom and tolerance in the face of sexual orientation and gender identity, rejecting school harassment and giving guidelines against gender violence. And that's why we applauded the new lines of the program contracts that you appointed in your first intervention, such as Iguáate, Convive and Include you. I repeat, Mrs Chao, you missed a golden opportunity by rejecting last Friday the amendment of the People's Party to prevent school indoctrination in the centers. I repeat, you're interested only in your ideological indoctrination. Mrs. Vázquez Verao and Mrs. Rodil, of course we have to make politics! But there's a difference between doing education policy and politicizing education. We are committed to educational freedom from the point of view of diversity and non-discrimination, in accordance with article 14 of the Spanish Constitution. You, Mrs. Rodil, speak of education since electoralism, partyism and sectarianism. [[Applause]] And we're not negationists. The BNG could well mean Galicia in black and white, which is its vision of the country. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] I'm done. The stability provided by the current Government of Greece allows this course 2019-2020 that has just begun to develop into a framework of normality that allows you to continue planning and working on the main pillars on which our education system is based: an equitable, equal and inclusive model; while innovative, multilingual and multidisciplinary. You will decide whether you want to pursue education policy or continue politicizing education. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u196	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio Vilasánchez. Close this meeting, advisor of Education, University and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u197	Thank you, President. We respect legitimate discrepancies, ladies and gentlemen, but I must point out that German education does not deserve a constant negative view, nor do the frequent attitudes which tend to confuse — as my predecessor said in the use of the word — do educational policies with politicizing education. I didn't talk about lies at any time. Indeed, we are here to make politics, Mrs Rodil, but this is a Parliament. I talked about politicizing teaching and teaching centers, and I talked about using that politicization in solving certain conflicts. Mrs Verao, you are ahead of the debate on next Monday, but you know that the President-in-Office proposed in his government programme that 5% of GDP for education expenditure had reached 2025. Justice, on the subject of robotics, has already given us reason. We act correctly, but there are other options. Even so, those 311 students who have chosen these two options worry about us, and we are -- as I have expressed in the media -- trying to find a solution to that problem. Mrs. Chao, have you ever eaten in a school dining room? I do. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I ate in direct-management school dining rooms and centralized-management school dining rooms. And you eat well. And I didn't warn you, it was improvised. By the way, the kitchen service is direct in the Sea Mary. It was a food shredding problem, it wasn't a catheter problem, because there's a cook and the service is direct. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] By the way, I didn't compare teaching with an olympicity. I think the one who misreaded my words was you. I didn't get a bad pass, neither the nerves nor the situation, I just compared the receipt of a prize with the receipt of an Olympic medal. Do you really think education in Galicia represents a threat to public education? Do you really think? Do you know that in the Basque Country, completed education represents 48% and the public 50%? Do you know that we are between Asturias and Andalusia in the concerted education percentage, having the first of the two communities, Asturias — who mentioned Mr Álvarez because of another issue —, 71.7% of public education compared to 22.9 % of concerted education, while in Galicia the proportion is 72.2 % to 22.2%? So we insist, take a quiet rest, there's no concern about it. There is no privatization. Nor is there any privatization in the attention to diversity, unless you tell me to collaborate with the Down Association, with the associations of mothers of students with TEA or Arela, it's privatizing the attention to diversity. [[Applause]] If so, don't worry that we'll already tell those associations that when we collaborate, we're privatizing. Educational centers disseminate healthy lifestyle habits. The municipalities where you ruled helped private companies. Besides, I insist that the 5% of GDP supply has been made by Mr. Sánchez to his group. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Go ahead, Mrs. Rodil, that you are respectful, but you can also say with a smile that Junta is a negationist, who, as you know, has a rather pejorative connotation or quite a bit. But we don't deny baseless, as others do, we provide data that rebut other data. And of course, society is moving forward, as I hope you recognize that it is advancing the education system as well. Mr. Álvarez, the technical secretary-general came to committee on September 7th and has already advanced the problems that existed and that would exist at the beginning of the course, nothing was hidden. Aversion to participation. Well, I take from here the commitment to summon all those organs more assiduously, then you'll remind me of them by the corridors. I know that in 2011 you weren't here, but you know that the group that voted against the law of coexistence and participation was precisely yours. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I've been in charge of the Education, University and Vocational Training Council for more than a year, and I reaffirm as the first day the commitment it is to put in place and manage each course the educational policies that contribute to training the Greeks and the Welsh of the 21st century. The education system is alive, it's constantly changing, and each course is a new challenge to face. They may agree or not, but the education policies of the Galician Union are known and recognized throughout the state, in all communities or in most of them, while they offer stability to the Greek education. And there's data that evaluates them with results. The Greek education system is today more attractive when it has its own multilingualism strategy, as well as its ICT strategy, which marks the most ambitious STEM skills-building actions across the state; and with planned measures on school libraries that are contributing to the improvement of student's key competences. But we cannot remain stagnant, we must continue to move forward, so we have new challenges and we have new proposals. One more course, the Council renews its commitment to educational policies that contribute to this and to coexistence in the classroom, updating this approach of work in attention to diversity from regulation and planning for inclusion, equality and educational innovation measures. So in this course, we will renew that commitment for attention to diversity and inclusive school, as I said in my previous interventions. We'll activate the inclusion strategy, Educlusion 2025. I hope you understand that individual cases — I insist — are treated when they are detected. By the way, in relation to the schools that referred to in the city of Coruña, I myself called a meeting between the territorial head and the head of inspection, and since the head of the territorial head and the head of inspection, the management teams of all and each of these centers have been called separately to examine the specific needs. Of the seven centers that appeared in the press that needed, there was really need in two, or so reported by the management teams. I suppose the management teams are not doing, in that case, any kind of management to favor the Administration or the Education Council, but will ensure the well-being of their students and their teachers. Therefore, 2020-2025 inclusion strategy to raise awareness, train and work for the student set, to minimize these particular cases. Although there is evidence that Galicia has a good climate of co-existence in the classrooms, as I said, we don't think there's any need to go down the guard. That's why, in order to impact from prevention, we're going to draw up a shock plan against school harassment. As I explained, we are promoting the creation of working groups to define and profile the content of this plan from a technical perspective that meets current and future needs; developing the following concrete actions that will contribute to the construction of a positive coexistence in educational institutions. Specific training of professors in emotional education, which will be developed through the creation of a network of liars. It offers educational centres a block of specific programmes aimed at preventing violence and improving school coexistence, in which all members of the educational community will participate. Incorporation into the current call for two new measures of the Convive and Inclúete programme contracts, and reformulation of another existing one, called Iguálate, will develop actions to promote co-education, promote equal opportunities between women and men, prevent and treat gender violence, prevent and treat LGTBI phobia and other similar measures. Convive. Centres that can design and channel preventive actions of violent or discriminatory behaviour and promote conciliation and school mediation. Include yourself. Measures that promote and improve real inclusion in centres. In addition, specific training in cohabitation is organized and developed in the Training Network of Professors of the Council. Finally, one more course we are working to ensure that Galicia has an attractive professional training, adapted to the socio-productive fabric and that fosters entrepreneurship, while taking significant steps to consolidate the dual FP. But we also want to move forward and we want to adapt to the new realities that are emerging, so throughout this course we will present the Greek Strategy of FP 2030, which will pick up the opportunities for the future and the actions to respond to the qualifications needs of the Greek population in the coming years. Galicia has a defined educational model. Galicia has a differentiated educational model, which advances and has projects to contribute to the development of talent and leadership in the excellence of learning of Galician citizens of the 21st century. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u198	Thank you, Counselor. We move on to the fifth item on the agenda, which is motions. G.P. motion. Joint Left Group, at the initiative of Da Julia Torregrosa Sañudo and da Paula Quinteiro Araújo, on the demand to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government and the actions to be carried out in the field of employment
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u199	Amendments have been tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u200	To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs. Torregrosa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u201	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon to all of you. I'm sure you already know the latest poll of the Galician Voice of La Voz, which shows again that the main concern of citizenship is unemployment. The question of which are Galicia's main problems right now, 60.2% says it's unemployment, followed by work insecurity in 25.6%. When the question focuses on the particular problems facing the survey, it turns out that unemployment, the quality of employment, the economy and the lack of industrial fabric exceed 50% of the vote. I mean, the economic situation and unemployment are the main headbreakers of the Greeks and the Greeks, who for the first time put the industrial crisis among the relevant problems of the community. Finally, this shows that they have already made it palpable for citizenship the continuing failure of their policies. As we said, a decade of lost employment. They got fewer people working in Galicia today than ten years ago, when Feijóo occupied Galician Union. The survey we've talked about, of active population, reflects that in the second quarter of 2019 1,100,000 people work, compared to 1,154,000 people do so in the same quarter of 2009 in which Feijóo began his black decade, we can call it, the most negative balance in our country's recent history, where 54,000 jobs were lost. I've never seen this before. With the Laxe government, in two years, 11,000 jobs were increased; with Fraga, 70,000 in sixteen years; with Touriño, 37,000 more occupied in four years. The Feijóo government is going to become the collective memory of being the government that left fewer jobs than when it started, the government of the lost decade. A regression that is not produced by an economic set, but by its mismanagement. Obviously, the comparison and differential in the evolution of employment in relation to other autonomous communities is what makes the failure evident. So we can see how, in those ten years, employment has increased by 651,000 people in the whole state, here we lose 54,000 jobs, the worst balance of all autonomous communities. Only five out of the 17 autonomous communities that make up our state have destroyed jobs in the last ten years, and you and your mismanagement are headed by classification. Another serious problem is aging. Not only has there been a loss of employment, but the labour market in our country is getting older and older. The number of people under 35 years of employment in Galicia has fallen to 18,000 during their ten years in front of the Board, 2009 to 2019, which means a 40% drop; 4 out of every 10 people under 35 years since Feijóo began ruling. The youth unemployment rate is very high on top of the rest; 3 out of every 10 Thursday are long-term unemployed. The self-sufficient didn't go out better. Faced with the false entrepreneurship speech, the reality is that in Galicia there are 40,000 autonomouss less than in 2009. They can't blame others, unfortunately, when they were ten years old and an absolute double majority, in Spain and Galicia, and not even those! In 2010, 50,000 jobs were lost, and in the black biennium 2012-2013 85,000 more. We talk about it all the time. Labour reform, which has diminished labour rights, has proved to have serious consequences on employment; its policies on budget cuts and austerity give a demolition balance. In the recessive phase of the economy, Galicia was the autonomous community that most jobs destroyed, and in the expansion phase started in 2014 we are among the least job-creating ones. Galicia is the territory with the worst evolution of employment between 2009 and 2019. How can they justify it? We have 54,000 net jobs less than in 2009 and 26,000 unemployed less. What a paradox, too, right? You know exactly what this is due to. It's because the active population has fallen in these last ten years in 80,000 people in our country. Unemployment doesn't go down in this country because people find jobs, go down because you stop looking for him here and he's gone. This drama we are experiencing is an economic, demographic, social and future drama that will drag us on, because Galicia, which accounts for only 6% of the total of the Spanish active population, assumed between 2009 and 2019 50% of the drop in assets in Spain, one out of two, thanks to its depolitics of employment. Which leads us to even more distrust of the future, because, because of its mismanagement, in the last five years of economic growth has not recovered the level of lost employment, and they threaten us with another economic downturn. Anyway, in the industry we can say the same thing, we have 22,500 busy less than when you started to rule Mr. Feijóo. One in ten jobs were lost in the industry. One in three jobs lost in the state are under his government. 33% of industrial employment lost in these ten years in the total state is Galicia, when Galicia accounts for only 6% of total industrial employment in the state. Keep your heads up! They make accounts and find solutions, which is what we ask them to do, it's very simple. Thank you, and it's essential that you have strategies in front of the recession you're about to arrive. Please urge the Government of the State to repeal the latest labour reforms to end the growing precariousness of the labour market, which has proved to be a failure. It is essential that they enhance and implement a change in the Italian production model that allows for a more balanced and environmentally-friendly sector-wide growth, the development of more intensive and value-added activities, and the generation of high-quality and better-paid jobs. They also promised to transmit to the Galician Parliament a Galician employment law which contributes to the ordering of the employment system and guarantees the right subject to employability of persons. Do it! They proceed to the comprehensive reform of the Public Employment Service in Galicia to set it up as an autonomous body of an administrative nature, with its own legal personality and economic autonomy, so that it can effectively contribute to the full development of the right to stable and quality employment. Do you know how many jobs in Galicia are actually going through the Public Employment Service in Galicia? We also call for a shock plan to improve the employment of women, youth, long-term unemployed and people over the age of 52. We call on them to reform vocational training for employment, to facilitate the inclusion of young people in employment, and to promote the network of public centres of autonomous ownership. We also ask them to strengthen their collaboration with the Labour Inspectorate to expand illegal employment, as well as the excess of extra hours worked and not offered to workers. What we ask them to do is do what a government would do concerned about the dramatic situation in their country, since it is no wonder that employment is the first concern of the Greeks and the Greeks, the ageing of the population and the democratic crisis, and the figures we have referred to. The situation of a Galician government where the government's mismanagement of public spending and the null political strategies, coupled with the absolute lack of self-criticism, lead us to this sad balance. This is the responsibility of Mr Feijóo's government, his government. That differential highlights the failure of their government in the most important issue for a country and its people, which is the right to work. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u202	Thank you, Mrs. Torregrosa. By the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, you have the floor to Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u203	Good afternoon. Despite the prevailing discourse of the theoretical recovery, the reality is that the neoliberal anti-worker policies carried out result in an X-ray of the working-class Galician to the limit. According to a study by the Galego Institute of Statistics on the remuneration of the labour factor in the Greek economy compared to the state and the European Union — the European Union of 28, we no longer speak of the European Union of the first division — it shows that, without palliatives, it is the working class of the Galician people who suffered most of the theft and looting from the capital. If in 2009, before the crisis, the salary weight in Galicia was 48% of GDP, in 2018 it became 42.4%, that is, in nine years they were stolen from the wages of the work of the Greeks and the Greeks 5.6 percentage points, which is a really astronomical amount. In the meantime, in the state that drop was only 3.8 points and in the European Union 0.8 points. I mean, it's not a global situation, it's not what happens to everyone. I'm saying that because sometimes we have the feeling that it seems to be the evil thing of many foolish consolations. We're talking about, comparatively, the situation of the Galician working class is much worse. In Galicia the results are of a really very worrying magnitude. And if we go to pay the actual hours of wages, in 2018 Galicia was 17 euros, in the European Union of 28 euros is 23.7 euros, which in Galicia the remuneration is 72% of the European Union average, and we're talking about real data, the money that the workers bring to their home. We can also talk about the subject of overtime, where according to the Galego Institute of Statistics — you're talking about official data, not data taken from the sleeve, as you usually bring the People's Party — in your survey of the structure of households, you recognize that 237,405 workers and workers in Greece perform a workday of more than 40 hours, which means 24% of the busy. It's not to be said that a very important part of these extra hours are not charged. Therefore, the political decisions taken since the start of the crisis have proved to be a real robbery and looting to the working class, and have not brought any solution at all because they were not seeking to provide any solution, quite the contrary, what they were looking for is to have a real reserve army, an army of people willing to accept any work for any salary in any condition. That's why the situation in Galicia described by the proposal for the initiative is that unemployment decreases not by increasing employment, but by loss of activity, by destruction of active population. There's another really worrying fact, and it's that the only wages that increase are higher than 4,000 euros; that is to say, all those who have high incomes, these have increased above 5%, while the lowest wages, where most of the population is, have lost 10% of purchasing power. Of course, I believe that this data shows that labour poverty, precariousness, is reality, is the mirror, is the photograph of the labour market in Galicia; a photograph that says that in relation to that increase in GDP that has been taking place so far, it is clear that we are already in a period of recession, of slowdown, that we will see how it will affect the working class, but that increase in GDP has only piled up in the hands of those above. We tabled an amendment to this initiative because we believe that it is not only necessary to urge the Government to repeal the latest labour reforms. At the BNG we believe that all labour reforms must be repealed, absolutely all, since they are the cause of giving legal coverage to all this precarious situation of the working class. Just like we demand the deletion of the dual FP. We believe that you don't have to put a patch on it, but you have to delete this dual FP modality because the only thing that allows is cheap labor, when not free, and it allows companies to decide what is the educational system in which it forms, and how it forms, an important part of our youth. Of course, at the BNG we disagree. Just as we also tabled an amendment demanding the repeal of the decree that approves and regulates temporary work enterprises. We see that they are a true cancer for the working class, that they are a mechanism, an instrument, of exploitation of the working class...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u204	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u205	...and we agree that the public employment system needs to be improved, but for that reason, with the improvement of the public employment system, the elimination of temporary work enterprises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u206	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Mrs Rodríguez Dacosta has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u207	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. With regard to the motion on employment policies, it includes a number of points, both of employment policies and of the Public Employment Service of Galicia, and of the Galicia Employment Act, through the collaboration of the Labour Inspectorate in matters that we are dealing with. It is true that it is more essential to change the employment policies made by the People's Party in order to create stable and quality jobs, because in Galicia unemployment increases more accused than in the rest of Spain, representing German unemployment by 22.85 % of Spain's total, and all indicators point to that the labour market cannot stabilize and remains very marked by seasonal conditions. Since September 2019, last month, membership of Social Security has decreased from the previous month to 1,029,548 people; that is, 7,352 people less, evolution against the state. Unemployment figures are set at 156,964 unemployed. In terms of inter-annual variation, in Galicia there is a contraction of 5.6%, i.e. 9,376 unemployed less, but it was 3.8% more than in the rest of the state. It should be noted, by its importance, that 59 percent of the unemployed in Galicia are women; in total, 64,594 men compared to 92,390 women. It's a fact you don't have to explain any more about this situation. Another group to highlight are boys and girls under the age of 25. In September, they increased nothing more and nothing less than 7.51 per cent; according to the sectors of activity, there is an increase in the service sector of 2.7%. These are the data that indicate the need to change the policies of the Government of Galicia, the employment policy of the People's Party. With regard to the comments made by my colleagues who preceded me in the use of the word on labour inspection, I want to point out that since there has been control in the conversion of contracts into indefinite, in the fight against fraud, the conversion of 5,000 jobs that were in work fraud and were detected by the Labour Inspectorate, which we have to continue to work in that direction. Right here, in this Galician Parliament, in 2011 the President, Mr Feijóo, came to say in a textual way: "Despite the few job skills, not to mention practically none", when we all know that the Galician Union has all job competences for its training, training for employment, and for its promotion. Galicia's job responsibilities are the same as the Bipartite and the rest of the autonomous communities. It is the German Government who can and who has to plan all active employment policies according to the needs of the Galicians and the Greeks, and decide to run under this aim rather than according to customer interests. For that he has received finalist funds from the Government of the State. Immediately after saying that he was incompetent, Mr Feijóo assumed these powers, but, as you know, as already discussed in this Parliament, he put a key to suspending guidance to tell the state public service that it was suspended by training and so they did not count on statistics. We thought this was never going to happen, but it happened. We also have to talk about long-term unemployed. According to EPA, unemployment is characterized by the heavy weight of long-term unemployed people. If in 2008 I had one out of four people stopped, in 2018 only one out of two. What Feijó was going to solve in forty-five days, turns out he now leaves 52,316 people unemployed. What does Junta do to solve the unemployment problem or at least reduce it? Of course, he doesn't run the budget, which is the first thing he'd have to do. In 2008 there were €287 million for employment policies, €88 million for unemployed people and €61 for the training of unemployed. For each stopped person, they spent at that time EUR 2,029 on employment policies and 580 on training. However, in 2008 the credit for employment policies fell to 170 million...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u208	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u209	...115 for the formation of unemployed persons and 10 million for the formation of unemployed persons. And yet, at last, it was more than 30% for the formation of unemployed people than in 2008, 27 million more. The degree of execution was much lower than in 2008, without spending 35% of the funds for employment policies, 60 million; 51% of the unemployed training funds, 59 million euros, and 84% of the unemployed, 9 million euros. This brutal cut makes in 2018 every person stopped spending 665 euros on employment policies, 67% less than in 2008. This bad level of budget execution that's going to take place...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u210	Finish, please. I'm sorry, I know you're today the first time I've spoken. The clock, that's what happened.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u211	Yeah, that's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u212	That happened to us all, eh! Watch out!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u213	I know he's in purple, I know.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u214	Then, go finish as soon as you can, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u215	Simply, with all this data and the falling hours worked out, we think you have to encourage changes in productive systems, strengthen collaboration with the Labour Inspectorate, and many more measures that I can no longer explain. Another time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u216	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u217	Good afternoon, gentlemen. In the previous debate on the state of the nation, for In Marea there were three clear emergencies in Galicia: a feminist emergency, a climate emergency and a social emergency. We understand that this motion covers part of the measures necessary to deal with these emergencies, so we will vote in favour. We have experienced a feminist emergency due to gender inequalities that are caused by many structural factors, but of course, the most important of all of them is surely the economic factor, the factor of job inequality, in economic matters, which makes women much more dependent than men have equal opportunities in economic matters. I think I remember that it's 95% of the Greek women who make use of the measure of conciliation, and therefore stop working for this reason, to serve the children. They are the ones that in 80% suffer the temporary work that exists in our country. They are the ones who in 70% suffer from the unwanted part-time contract; they would like to work full-time and not do so. And it's women who suffer from a 29% pay gap in relation to men by performing similar jobs. So the feminist emergency that we need to fight also with budgets and employment strategies that generate equal gender opportunities. Secondly, and that's what we're talking about in the last rounds with special emphasis, a climate emergency, which also translates into an idea of industrial crisis by the production model, and, therefore, in relation to this situation, has an irreversible character. We have to move forward, and we move forward -- this is the political position, at least, of some forces like En Marea -- towards the necessary decarbonization of the economy, towards the idea of an ecological transition that can be fair or unfair. We want it to be fair, in the face of that institutional injustice that we are installed in, and in which there is still an energy regulation that has not just been convinced that it is not the future, but that it is the present. That's why we also formulated in this plenary the idea of the map of Galicia's sustainable transition, something that requires a change in the production model, which is precisely one of the points of this motion, so we're also going to support it. But we also live -- and that's an idea for us essential -- the idea of a social emergency: it's necessary to fight inequality. They were already there before the last big recession, but they got worse after her. We left this recession recovering wealth levels prior to 2009, but in a very unfair way, because wealth is much more unevenly distributed than before the crisis. This requires action on public policies that generate social opportunities, but above all work opportunities, employment-key opportunities such as those presented here. They buy economic resources for these equal opportunities policies and for these employment policies, and we have been reporting from En Marea in the last two months, with official data, the budget execution data itself from 2011 to 2018, as in the active employment policy functions more than 945 million euros are lost and finally not executed. Economic resources to be added to those who will no longer enter the public archives next year, to approve budgets as presented by the Galician Union, which would bring new gifts to the most millionaires, to the most multimillionaires in our country, to those who are given tax gifts while there is not enough money to meet the social, climate and feminist needs of our country. And all this in the context of being, in the last ten years of the Feijóo government, the autonomous community with the worst evolution of employment, where the balance is negative in the number of busy, fewer people working; less economic growth, less salary generated by the people working, and that's yes, once it starts to cool down and slow down the economy, at the doors of what can surely be, according to experts, a new recession, we're already champions in the destruction of employment. The only factory that works well in the Galician Feijóo is the unemployment plant. For this reason, it seems interesting to us to propose the derogation from labour reforms to end the dictatorship of precariousness; to be better prepared and better prepared now in wage masses, in contributions, by the time that this recession returns; to end false autonomy, which is necessarily pretending to be something that they are not, bound by a reform, bound by an economic system, which does not have a job inspection that deals with them. In many cases they have to complain in the courts, such as the Raiders, who have recognition but by judicial judgement, after a very long struggle, and not because there is an effective labour inspection that fights in this key. We believe that — and I am finished, President — the proposal for a Galician Employment Act, and the creation as such of the Public Employment Service of Galicia, would be very positive to address the lack of ideas of the Italian Executive, who was unable to execute the EUR 945 million for active employment policies during these seven years. Let us see if by the creation of these bodies and by the promotion of employment by law if there is a different result, because in the light of this, there is not enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u218	Thank you, Mr. Villares. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u219	Thank you, President. The truth is that the opposition is committed to proving what it says a thousand times repeated lie remains a lie. So those people who don't follow this debate as directly as we do have to tell you that this initiative has a clearly electoralist aim, that the truth is it has more to do with the general elections of November 10 than with any other reality. This initiative won't go with us. The truth is that the Tides of Podemos present this initiative to put their finger on the Socialist Party. Today, the Tides of Podemos, the United Left, the confluences, or whatever they call themselves, develop a campaign on social networks under the hashtag "The Free Fire", with which they intend to put their finger on the Socialist Party for what they came to the Moncloa saying they were going to banish labor reform and then they didn't. So this initiative, Mrs. Torregrosa, if you don't know it, is part of that campaign where you fight with the Socialist Party to see who the workers most represent. And you know what I'm telling you, they don't represent them either. The workers represent us who defend the jobs, and it's us, it's us. Because you come here repeatedly asking for the closure of companies, and you can't ask for the closure of companies in the morning and in the evening to say that you're worried about the unemployed. But how are you not going to be worried? It's a bad conscience. They're unemployed because you put them out of the companies that want to close and come here to ask for closure every day. [[Applause]] Thermal centers. Look, would you like me to explain to you what the position of your party is? Shut them down, shut them down and send more than 750 workers to jail. You want me to tell you what's going on with the workers in the electrointensive industries? That the gentlemen you intend to co-govern are going to bring about the closure of our country's electro-intensive industry in Spain, but we are particularly concerned about what has to do with Galicia. What are you doing? Is there a statute of electrointensive industry to provide support for the Socialist Party? No, they're sorry but they want to rule with them. That's the reality of double morals, of the debate we have on the table today. Therefore, I sincerely regret that this is the position. Mr. Pedro Sánchez, when he was in the opposition, said that the job reform was to be repealed and that he was to be the first to do when he arrived at the Government of Spain, which was to be the first to do when he arrived at Moncloa. You know what they did? Everything's the other way around. Do you know what the Minister of Economics recently said, Nadia Calvino? "Calvino does not see a productive reversal of labour reform, and advocates a new Workers' Statute." From what they said when they were in the opposition, they did the opposite when they arrived at the Moncloa. That's the reality. The truth is that there are other socialists who are more realistic and recognize the truth. Look, Octavio Granado, Secretary of State for Social Security of the Socialist Party, says: "The Socialists did it fatal in 2008, we let three million jobs be destroyed." Look, here's a socialist who finally tells the truth, another who can add to Pilar Cancel. That's the reality of the bad taste joke you're coming here with. They're asking for more jobs and what they're asking for is the closure of the thermals. They ask for more employment and ask for the closure of Ence. They ask for more employment and at the same time demand the closure of Reganosa. They ask for more jobs and oppose everything when wind projects arrive in Galicia. Or the mining project, of which you are also against. They ask for more employment, but they oppose Parliament, and where they can, the Aerospace Pole of Rozas, or the expansion of the PSA-Citroën plant in Vigo. But what is your production model? Shut it down! That's reality. And you come with data that, or it's just a lie, or Manolo Lago goes wrong and with bad faith, I'm sure. [[Protests.]] Registered unemployment. The reality of the registered unemployment is that in 2009, when the Socialist Party was ruling with the Galician Nationalist Block and its party's colleagues were part of the Government of Galicia, the registered unemployment increased by 32% between March 2008 and March 2009, there were 59,000 more unemployed in the last year of its Government. You know what happens today? That unemployment drops, 10,000 unemployed less in the last year here in Galicia. Development of memberships to Social Security. Do you know what happened when I ruled the left? Memberships dropped by 5%, 50,000 less members of Social Security. Do you know what's happening today? Social Security affiliates are growing, 16,000 more affiliates than a year ago. Wage developments. Galicia is the third autonomous community in which wages have grown the most since 2009. Indefinite employees. Three out of four employees in Galicia have an indefinite contract, and 70% have a full-time contract. So, of course there are problems! Don't cheat on me from the occupied population. The occupied population knows you have a clear demographic component, so when they use that argument, they're cheating.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u220	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u221	Here is an employment agenda, the 2020 Agenda, which is being launched by this Government. Do you know what it's all about? Create in this legislation between 80,000 and 100,000 jobs. We've already created a good number of jobs, which is clear is that there's a threat to employment on the table called the Socialist Party, and it's clear that you want to be accomplices...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u222	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u223	...of the Socialist Party and being part of that government of progress which, from then on to Galicia, would be frankly negative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u224	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u225	Lessons of employment by the Tide of Podemos, the Confluences and the Socialist Party of Pedro Sánchez, in no case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u226	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Author group of the motion, Mrs. Torregrosa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u227	Thank you very much. Mr Tellado — to begin with — I suppose you don't care for anything that 60.2% of Greeks and Greeks think the problem is unemployment at the moment, followed by job insecurity. That doesn't matter to you. So, I think they should be a little more honest with the results of their policies, because if they don't want to accept that what we say is the real situation, get rid of the hemerotheque and see what you said, as a publicity campaign of the previous elections, in Mr. Feijóo's mouth. Mr Feijóo comes to say what we propose in this motion; in fact, I think we say much more than what you were committed to doing in 2015, which is — more or less — a new employment law with the aim of reducing the unemployment rate below the two digits in Galicia — Mr Feijóo — and creating between 80,000 and 100,000 jobs over the next four years — a total failure —; priority groups will be the most affected by unemployment, such as women, young people and long-term employees — obviously not done. So, I don't know what you're talking about, Mr. Tellado! I think you should change your argument a little bit because you're not going anywhere. They should recognize that they are not able to deal with this situation, that we have a problem and a new crisis that you are unable to solve. Why? In our humble opinion, it would be because their failure is provoked, firstly, because they have no ideas about the productive model that must be followed; there is an exhaustion of our country's productive model and they don't know what to do. They're stuck there at the old factories like in the 19th century and they can't get out of there. They don't know. And secondly, by the politics of austerity, which has already been shown to be harmful and that they have lost and lost and lost jobs. [[Murmurs.]] So if they don't want to change their policies, if they're unable to reach social agreements and try social dialogue with employers and trade unions to boost employment policies; if they don't want to see their failure of fifty-four thousand jobs lost in ten years is a failure in figures, I'm very sorry, Mr Tellado, but I don't think they're able to continue ruling this country. Because we see where we're going and we're not here yet. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u228	Thank you. Please, about the amendments. Do you accept the amendments?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u229	We accept amendments to the Galician Nationalist Block and we do not accept the PSdEG amendment because we believe that it replaces a part that already seems right to us. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u230	Thank you. G.P. motion. Joint Left Group, at the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo, on the actions to be carried out in Galicia to improve the current working conditions in the telemarketing sector, as well as to prevent the relocation and loss of jobs
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u231	There are amendments to the Joint Parliamentary Group and to the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u232	To formulate the motion, Mrs. Quinteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u233	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. The first thing we want is to send all our support from here to the workers and workers of the R contracts, which today — even now, in fact — are mobilized in the Coruña in defense of their jobs, because we're talking about that about a thousand jobs are at risk, despite the fact that the Galician Union continues to do absolutely no case of all these mobilisations. The workers of R's contracts have been on the street for months, demanding that the Galician Union take some action in this progressive dismantling process that we live in our industry, in this particular case, in the telemarketing sector. We have heard many times in this chamber about this issue, many empty promises, but really the months go by, even the years since we first discussed this issue in this chamber, and there is no political will at all. If we're going to see the facts, we see that they're doing absolutely nothing to defend employment and improve the conditions of employment in this sector, even though it's a serious matter. It is a matter that has long been highlighted, it is a process of progressive relocation of employment in the very obvious sector, it is gradually moving more work outside Galicia and this issue is not new; as I said earlier, we have debated in this parliament repeatedly on this issue. Today we focus especially on the workers and workers of the subcontracts of R Cable, but, in this same parliament, we also debate the situation that the workers of Bosch, the United Kingdom or Extel went through. It has often been the ones we debate in this parliament and we have put the abuses of these companies on the table, the absolute permissiveness with which these companies — many that have received a lot of money — are allowed to do what they want, the wages of poverty and the partial days they go through, and that they have to live these workers and the abuse of control, totally disproportionately, which impose these companies on the workers. We also talk a lot about layoffs, which always say they're not real, but they're real. There have already been dismissals in this sector in recent years — many! — and now there is a new threat that is obviously very alarming because we are talking about more than a thousand jobs. The German Government all this time has done absolutely nothing but, as I said, to promise and to say here, verbally, a number of questions without taking any action afterwards. It's especially serious what happens with R because, as we've already said, it's a company that received a lot of millions of public money, a company that was raised with the money of all the Greeks. In fact, 30% of this company was owned by a public savings box, the old cash box Caixanova. And in 2015, when R sold to Euskaltel, the Galician board did as if it had absolutely nothing to say, it didn't give him any importance. At that time there was a verbal commitment that employment would be maintained in Galicia, that the working conditions of workers would be maintained and that the workload would be maintained, that it would not diminish. It has been shown that this is not a reality. As I said, there have been cuts since R was sold to the Basque Country. Now there are new threats of concrete services that are moving to Asturias and Euskadi. There are job offers already published elsewhere and the board is looking totally elsewhere without doing anything at all. We're talking about an area where benefits are increasing progressively: every year, the sector gains more benefits than it does in terms of precaution of workers and workers. Only in the last year Euskaltel has won twenty-three million net profits and most of them have to see and come from R. Despite this, they are also launching balloons probes with the possibility of selling their infrastructures. There are no losses that will justify this reorganization of work, in no way. It's companies that make more than millions of public money every year, already added to all the millions that received from the public accounts. Here, right now, we have just heard from Mr. Tellado the absolute defense made by the People's Party of Employment, but I would ask them that instead of defending him so much they did to defend him, not to defend him verbally; because the data do not lie, the loss of employment is what it is: less employment, more unemployed and more unemployed and, above all, much more precarious work. What you couldn't say here is that the People's Party is the only party that defends employment when the data shows the situation that the workers and the workers of Greece are living. You systematically turn your back on them and don't even receive them, because here we've already said: the R Cable workers couldn't even talk to the employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u234	Quiet, please. Excuse me a moment. Quiet. Quiet. Please, Mr. Sánchez and Mr. Tellado, a little quiet; otherwise, I call them by order both. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We're only about an hour and a half left, we're going with a little calm and quiet. Please don't interrupt and the debate goes normally. I'm not in a hurry. [[Murmurs.]] Please, look who's in the use of the word: respect you have! Quiet. Mrs. Quinteiro, whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u235	They don't want to send anyone to unemployment, but every year they fatten the unemployment ranks; they don't want to condemn anyone to precariousness but they approve work reforms that condemn precariousness to all workers, who pay off and allow companies to abuse wages of poverty, with partial pay, etc. That is the model of the People's Party: creating fewer jobs, destroying jobs — as I say, they are leaving Galicia as an industrial desert — and the job they create is of much worse quality. In this particular case, since they want to defend both employment, I invite them to speak with R and to review all the adjudications of contracts and licenses that they make as public administration, as a preferred customer, to demand that they be companies that have direct links with Galicia, to require that they be companies that use the Greek language. This is a concrete measure that they can do, besides verbally saying that they defend employment and that they defend the jobs of the workers of the subcontracts of R Cable. Why don't they do that? Why don't you take a concrete step? Why don't you sit down and negotiate, middle? Months have passed, already in the summer -- more than two months ago -- the Director General has committed himself to making this negotiating space, that business dialogue table, and the representation of workers and workers. Absolutely nothing, it was on an ad to make a press release. They don't actually listen to them, they come here, they lie -- they're not here because they're mobilising today -- but if they're here they'd lie too without any kind of impunity, but they're leaving it very clear; they're calling the door, repeatedly, of the Unity of Galicia so they can take action, so they can already do something and don't continue with their profile and at the moment they're doing absolutely nothing. This process not only affects — as I said — workers and workers, it affects the set of users because the attention in English can be affected, obviously, and action must be taken to prevent this suppression of the care in Greek from taking forward. These days, coinciding with the workers' mobilization, we read an interview with an Euskaltel deputy councillor in which he had no sense of lying. Although it was an interview made to sell his report that nothing happens, that everything is all right, it's actually explaining very alarming things because it doesn't guarantee, at all, that no more people will be fired. He says the reorganization process is over but he stays in the air. The workers and the workers are seeing, progressively, more and more maintenance services and other issues being shifted. As much as they come to say publicly that there is no such relocation process when you see each day at your jobs, when you have already fired companions and colleagues, when there are fewer people with stable work and more with temporary work, because obviously these arguments are totally false. And, as I say, it is important to make it clear that we are talking about a company that has grown up with public money, which is far more important than another company in the telemarketing sector. Together you have to make sure that the money you've been employed, that the money that was all and everyone's to raise this company now serves to keep generating jobs in our country. We would also like to point out that we do not really have hope even if this motion was adopted because, as the motion itself states, a non-law proposal from the BNG in this House has already been adopted in this committee, so that the Board has exercised its responsibilities and has not served for anything at the moment; the Board has continued to look elsewhere. So, we hope now that if they take us seriously, they will not listen to us but will listen to all the workers who are leaving now but who have been on the street for months, so that, once and for all, they will defend their jobs. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u236	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u237	Go ahead with our support to the workers and workers of R Cable, who are mobilized today in the Coruña. We are talking, as this motion also proposes, and we are going to support this sector, which can be defined by permanent precariousness, by job instability, by partial schedules, by the pressure of the employer — as it has been shown here — and by the wages of misery. It's an eminently feminized sector that brings together about 10,000 workers and workers in our country -- it's fully justified that consideration of the strategic sector of the Greek economy -- and 75% of them are women and half are under 35 years old. The collective telemarketing agreement is state-owned and is pending until December 31st this year, and there is possibility of extension. For a working day of 39 hours, this means €13,916.97 per year, only €1,160 per month, taking into account extra payments. But what happens is that on many occasions you don't get to those 39 hours of agreement, but the most usual days are 32 to 35 hours, with lower wages. And in the end, we're talking about a life regime that prevents us from reconciling and thinking about having an autonomous life for many people, basically young women — as we said — and that adds that employer pressure and those psychosocial risks. Over the past few years we have experienced numerous labour conflicts and redundancies — as the rapporteur pointed out —: Attento Coruña, Extel Coruña, United Kingdom, ERE de Bosch Vigo. And today we're talking about the living situation of R Cable, which, as has been reported here for months without the Junta moving, and considering what this sector represents only in the Coruña region, only in the Coruña, about a thousand jobs are threatened. We're talking about relocation. And, yes, we support that 6th Commission resolution in which, among some of the issues that were highlighted, it was asked to ensure the right of consumers to be treated in the English language. And that's why it goes one of our amendments, because we are constantly seeing how important it is for employment to guarantee the linguistic rights of the and the spokespersons in the socio-economic environment. That's why one of the amendments reiterates the need that has already been expressed in this Parliament when I brought here the Bureau for Linguistic Standardization that ILP to guarantee linguistic rights in socio-economic terms. Then, on the other hand, another of our amendments goes in the sense that we cannot forget that the Board itself often exercises as a precautional agent of employment in telemarketing. And we see it when the Board pushes requirements of conditions for the bidding of telephone services, which are basic services of the Administration, and allows subcontracting and wages under the professional category. And we saw it in a set of conditions of the telephone service 012, totally delusional, which allowed for total freedom, on the other hand, which allows it to reform work — which we also agree on the need to derogate — which makes the workers precarious. So we are in a context of precarious employment, of which telemarketing is an example, as is the example of R Cable, of that policy of the capital of Galicia, of this decapitalization of our country's industry. And we agree to open that negotiating table. That table is necessary. Because let's remember that R Cable — as our fellow in the Industry Committee pointed out — is a capital company in Greece, which was a rather cutting-edge company and that instead of being the Union an agent who targeted this ICT sector in Galicia through Retegal, what makes it stop, let go; and there goes the capital of Greece; first sell to that Luxembourg fund and then buy Euskaltel. In addition to that, we want to point out, it is a preferred client of R, it could make more pressure and, ultimately, it could exercise the German Government and not — as we said this morning — as we said — as a manager of a community of neighbours. We're talking about a very serious issue, about a lot of jobs at stake, and about a sector that could be pointers, which could have good conditions, which could be part of that necessary industrial transition, and which, on the other hand, is becoming more and more precarious.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u238	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Parliamentary Group Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u239	I also want to start by transferring a greeting to the workers and workers who are manifesting themselves at this time in the Coruña, because this is a matter that concerns us and that deals with us in the BNG. We have already brought it to Commission 6th, in the previous plenary we discussed it by asking the counsellor, and still yesterday our national spokesperson was gathered with them. Because, despite the fact here in parliamentary office by the Industry Councillor, that there was a lot of progress in providing solutions, of course it indicates that it is not so; if it had been otherwise, of course, they would not have to continue asking for a solution to their problem. A problem, of course, which is part of the Spanish government's decision to liberalise the telecommunications sector in order to facilitate the business to the capital. And that liberalisation has profoundly changed this sector, and in the case of Galicia it has practically liquidated it. The abandonment, the deterioration of the service in those territories which they consider to be economically non-responsible, the consequent increase in the digital divide, the low quality of the service, the destruction of employment, the precariousness of working conditions... And what is shocking evidence is the fact that the design, direction, organization, the planning of telecommunications activities takes place outside of Galicia; virtually none of those decisions are made in our country. That's no coincidence, that's the result of a design that leaves Galicia out of a strategic sector as far as making decisions and economic and employment development. A management system with decision-making centres in other territories leads to a lack of knowledge of the economic reality and employment in Galicia and to those decisions being made without thinking about our country. As a result, it is the policy of a fundamental productive infrastructure for our country, which is that of telecommunications, and the loss and deterioration of jobs. At this point, I suppose no one will dare to deny that large operators are on board, have been in the process of concentrating qualified employment in other centres — Madrid, Barcelona, Bilbao — and we are now in the case of companies that are provided with services, service providers, at another time R company, at another time R company leading, at another time R company raised with the efforts of the Greeks and Greeks through the investments and financial resources deposited in the savings boxes, and today already in the hands of Euskaltel, after passing through the hands of another foreign company. What we're talking about is responding to this design I described a moment ago. We're talking about an example of our own loss of capacity in Galicia, of total and absolute dislosure on the part of the Galician Union, which looked elsewhere while this decapitalization of a Greek company was produced, and of business de-investment in a key sector such as telecommunications, which had to be strategic in Galicia if we had a government that had waged for the economic development of our country, something else that wasn't competitiveness for low wages. And the examples are where the situation of job losses in industry or in strategic sectors is what we are talking about. We're talking right now about the possible loss of a thousand jobs in one region, that is, a real defeat; but it's not jobs that are destroyed. This is how matter, which is neither created nor destroyed, becomes lost to Galicia, and in this case it becomes lost to Galicia, because it is jobs that cease to be in Galicia and become in Asturias or the Basque Country. Why is that? Because of the lack of political power of a Union that is not involved, a Union that is not involved! [[Applause]] It is the permanent observation of having a government that acts only as an army of occupation to favour the interests of businesses other than to promote the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks. We support this initiative. In fact, the first point is that an agreement is being reached in Commission 6a, taken there by a BNG initiative. But we present an amendment that we believe simply improves the subject, and it is to insist on demanding the guarantee of attention to the customers in Greek, to guarantee the right of the Greeks and the Greeks to be treated in Greek; that is, to influence a competitive element that we have, that is, that we have a language of our own and that we have to demand to be treated in that language. And that's why we had to have a government that had cared about and taken care of something as basic as demanding companies that operate in our language.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u240	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u241	And that would mean jobs. But what is the situation? Well, a government he doesn't care about. Here said the counselor who was busy on the subject, but what are the results? There aren't any. There is currently no solution on top of the table. With which, of course, we have a lot more propaganda but very few facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u242	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u243	Thank you, Mr. President. Socialists also want to express our support for the workers and workers who are demonstrating themselves today in the Coruña. [[Applause]] Well, R Cable was founded in 1998 and began its activity in 1999, after winning a public contest to install cable services in Galicia. It began as a common bet from several Greek companies — such as Banco Pastor, Caixanova or Union Fenosa — and by the end of 2000 it already had about a thousand customers. The presentation of R Cable was from a global cable telecommunication operator in Galicia who had its headquarters in the Coruña. Up to this moment R Cable appears as one of the best providers of telecommunications services in all rankings, due to the quality of the service being provided, compensating losses that are generated in other companies in the group. It is also worth noting that this company received numerous grants for the deployment of fiber optics in our community. Well, after twenty-five changes in the company's shareholdersship, in 2015 the final purchase of R Cable by Euskaltel, for 1,1900 million euros, that is, 100% of the company, was made as the leading telecommunications company in northern Spain. Euskaltel, at the time of the purchase, announced that he would continue the Galician brand, its local structures and its professional equipment. But the reality is that from that moment on, there has been a progressive relocation of the old Cable jobs to Asturias and the Basque Country, mainly maintenance services. These maintenance services are currently subcontracted with companies operating in Galicia, such as Comfia, Collaborate, Plexus or Indra, which have so far been subrogating the staff who have been in charge of this work, which in some cases has been subrogating it for 20 years, i.e. since the birth of the company. Recently, Euskaltel agreed to hand over to the Chinese company ZTE the maintenance services of the network, which will be carried out from the work centre that the Chinese company has just opened in Asturias, without subrogation from the workers. Therefore, several hundred jobs are put at risk in Galicia, mainly in the Coruña and in its vicinity, as evidenced by the dismissal that there have already been twenty workers and workers in Compica, and that the rest of the companies — such as Indra, Plexus or Collaborate — could follow the same steps. More than 200 people currently work for R Cable in the Coruña, between direct and indirect jobs, and in the parent company they are producing a drop of redundancies and outsourcing towards the Chinese company ZTE, so the people who work in these companies have started a series of mobilizations and, as it has been shown today, they will continue and even intensify. The recent statements by the deputy councillor of Euskaltel, José Miguel García, in which he assured that the company will continue on the current path of restructuring does not give much hope for this situation to change. And, according to the complaint of the works council, UXT and Labour Commissions, the impact of these restructuring measures could affect a few five people, a few five jobs, and that they can get to more, since the customer service, the contact centre, and the administrative work will be auctioned, and currently counts with five people working for these services. The unification of services for the three Euskaltel-R, Telecable-in-Asturias- and Euskaltel- itself put jobs at risk that were once an opportunity for growth. The statements of this Sunday's group councillor Euskaltel do not at all clarify the future situation for workers and workers in Galicia, since the answer offered, when asked for the relocation of the service, is: the net balance of these redundancies and job creation is neutral, in some cases it is negative and in others it is positive. So, add a lot more doubt as to what the job situation will be in Galicia, since there may indeed be layoffs in a place that may be in Galicia and there may be new recruits elsewhere, which may be Asturias and the Basque Country. The fact is that last September 17 in the Commission 6th the Socialist Parliamentary Group asked the Government a question about the government's assessment of this situation. And from the response given by the Secretary General of Employment — a lack of conviction and a number of generalities offered, under our understanding — it doesn't seem that this is a matter of concern to the Greek Government, since the response given by the Secretary General of Employment was vague, as is the commitment by the Galician Council to maintain employment in Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u244	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u245	...is maximum in all cases: listening, watching for compliance, offering the means and inviting the units. We want to know what are those means that make it possible for workers and workers to find a solution to this situation that can lead us to lose even more jobs in the already ill-treated labour situation of our autonomous community. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u246	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Rodríguez Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u247	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Since the People's Parliamentary Group, we also have solidarity with the workers, but also with all the workers in Galicia, with all of them; there are no first and second workers. There are a lot of workers in Galicia, Ence and Alcoa, R-Euskaltel, who could lose their jobs for socialist policies supported by all of you. Solidarity for all. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Quintere, this issue is not new and we've been discussing it. They present this motion after the inquiry made to the counsellor. I recommend the principle of prudence. Prudence, for prudence is humility, which is always recommended. You can't come here and do some kind of demonstrations like that you do without bluffing here, free of charge. Their insinuations about the lack of concern and action by the Galician Union are not acceptable. This problem has been dealt with on many occasions — and you know it — in committee, in full, and we have agreements, agreements unanimously. [[Murmurs.]] They come with a recorded, closed and opaque speech and try to blame themselves always. You don't care what you're told; for you, the blame is always on the board and on the PP—end of the quote. Of course not, ladies, of course not. They say the board doesn't receive them. Incorrect. The advisor reported on the interpellation day and time of all the meetings held this year 2019. You guys, mistake you're wrong, they don't want to see reality, they have a sale in their eyes. You remind me of those who walk with a sign announcing that the end of the world will come and one day will arrive, but not for now. Mrs. Quinteiro, you and your group want to move forward and become the great valets without any responsibility. Mrs Quinteiro, the Galician Union and this parliamentary group are going ahead. You're always looking to the past; we, towards the future and improving. To talk to you about property, it's important to know who we're talking to and where we are. We have it clear: the law, the Constitution, the Statute of Self-Government. When you talk about Junta being a preferred client, what do you mean? I'd like you to explain yourself, because we're talking about a private company. That of nationalizing companies is other countries where you find yourself more comfortable. Here in Spain we have laws, agreements, rules, Spanish legal framework. They're asking for something illegal. Clear it up. The Union is developing its actions to comply with Parliament's agreements: a permanent dialogue with the parties involved, in contact with the association, at national level. The study is being carried out with the telemarketing sector. The advisor has already said this: more than ten meetings with the telemarketing sector. Contacts with all parties involved, in the case of Euskaltel, subcontractors and auxiliary companies. Tomorrow — you have made an announcement — on the 26th, in the morning, the Secretary General of Employment will meet again with the unions. Active Mediation Paper. We can't guarantee anything you ask, negotiating table, because you'll know it's the power of the parties. Mrs. Quinteiro, when you talk, you have to be very careful, because I don't know if they do it on purpose or they really think so. In the People's Parliamentary Group we have this clear: the concept of a nation, the concept of autonomy and what are the national conventions. You and your groups, generally left-wing ones, when they're interested, mix everything, make a pretty explosive cocktail. There is a state agreement signed by majority unions. Since the Labour Inspectorate, all the necessary actions are carried out to ensure compliance, as well as the rights of people and workers in general. Something very important that we have called for: greater protection of citizens' data, preventing them from moving to countries outside the European Union. And, above all, strengthen the labour inspection. We know that behind every worker and every worker there is a family. What the opposition groups have to do is join the People's Party. We — I repeat — are in the telemarketing sector, defending workers and workers, defending business committees, being demanding of companies, both the telemarketing sector and the R itself and its subcontracts. We will vote 'yes' to your motion, but with the original text, for all that the Galician Union asks, ladies and gentlemen, you are already doing so. They're late, too late.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u248	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Pérez. Author group of the motion, Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u249	Thank you. I think the amendments proposed by the other parliamentary groups seem to me; then, I think we can reach an agreement by negotiating several; and we appreciate the support. And — in fact — we have to talk about the speech that came here now to be made by the People's Party, which is not a new speech, too, because — in fact — he could save almost his intervention, because he said exactly the same thing — and there is the Journal of Sessions — practically the same as the counselor, that is, practically nothing. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because he's talking about everything. He says all solidarity with the workers and the workers of R's contracts, but he starts talking about most of his intervention of things that have nothing to do with. That's an insult to the workers and the workers, because every time we ask them about a specific topic of a concrete conflict they use here to give a political rally, to try to stay above their defense of employment, and that's a direct lack of respect for the people who are currently mobilising and who want to hear that the counselor, and in this case the spokesperson of the People's Party, tell them what the People's Party is doing to defend employment, not that they repeat that they are defending employment. [[Murmurs.]] What concrete measures? He says: we're going to support the motion. They already supported the non-law proposal, had a meeting in August (at the end of July-August), spent almost two months, what did they make of all the commitments that came out of that meeting? Because the truth is that in their interventions they say the same thing and the opposite thing; in the same intervention they use this forum to say that they are doing absolutely everything possible for the telemarketing sector, that they are exercising their active role of mediation between the company and the workers, and thirty seconds later they use the same intervention to say that there is a national agreement and the Galician Union cannot do anything. Well, be clear: what are they doing, what are they not doing? And above all, be clear of what they say they will do and what they do not do. Because if they are committed two months ago to convene a meeting and spend more than two months and you don't know anything about such a meeting, it's a lack of direct respect for workers and workers. And they say they're defending the telemarketing sector, what they're defending is job insecurity, because it's a sector that's gradually been losing working conditions, workers and workers see how wages go down, relocation is evidence. They always call us—he didn't say the word today— Catastrophists, who draw a world that doesn't exist. Catastrophists didn't say, but he said a very exaggerated question. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So tell the workers and workers that they are alarmed by the possible loss of their job, that nothing happens, that Junta is already doing everything possible, that it is a private company and that no longer can be done. When we say I'm a preferred customer, the Administration has contracts and public tenders with telemarketing companies, and it can also put some conditions in place, such as, for example, that it takes care of in English. That's a question that can be asked, a specific question. They can convene a dialogue table, because that's what they're committed to. Now they say they can't, but you've committed yourselves to a meeting with the union representation of workers and workers to convene a negotiating table with the company and the representation of workers. If they committed to it two months ago, it turns out they can't. Well, it's a little contradictory then.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u250	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u251	If you have a meeting tomorrow, I'm glad. Also say that ten meetings in government when only four major labour conflicts were mentioned here, because there were many more: Bosch, United States, Extel. Man, you just didn't have to meet the workers. What's the matter is they have a meeting to get a press headline. They also met once with the workers of R's contracts and don't pick up their phone or open their door until God knows when, until they're interested in taking out another headline. That's the problem:
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u252	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u253	...that they meet once, and the Government's duty is to meet constantly every time workers ask for it, because it's their duty, they're not doing any favor to the workers and the workers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u254	Your time is up. Thank you, thank you. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Monserrat Prado Cores, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to ensure quality health care for the population of Povervisa
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u255	There are amendments to the Socialist, Mixed and Popular Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u256	To formulate the motion, you have the floor to Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u257	Good afternoon again. I want to begin by greeting the representatives of the workers and workers who accompany us in the rostrum, for being here stoically despite these untimely hours, workers and workers who are mobilising, and this next Thursday there's a mobilization in Vigo, before I transfer the support of the BNG, against the fact that the Povisa Hospital is falling into the hands of an American multinational. And the full past... yes, Yankee, Madam, an American multinational. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's what it is, that's what it is, and things have a name, that's right. In the full past the BNG — thanks to the People's Party, yes, it is very funny that the privatization of health in our country — questioned the health adviser in front of the alarm and the concern that exists in the face of the news of the acquisition of Povervisa by an American multinational; concern about the very serious consequences it may have for public health in general and, fundamentally, for Vigo's health area, because it is not a transaction between individuals — we told the councillor –, it is not a sale of any company, it is the sale of the largest private hospital, which lives from public health — not in vain 80% of its budget, of its 108 million budget, 80 come from the taxes of the Greeks and the Greeks — and it is a hospital in which 135,000 neighbors and neighbors receive public health care from the Vigo health area and in which 1,400 workers work to assist this population of reference. From questioning the truth is that we have left with very little or practically no clarification, but they have increased our fears and alarms. Alarmed by the fact that the People's Party, the Councillor and the Government of the Union had known for months since this sale and, far from acting and seeing the situation in which the health care of all this population was to be taken into account, what it did was to be in touch with the current owners of Povervisa, it was capitalizing the company, modifying the existing concert to put more resources on Povervisa. We also know that the company that the market is Ribera Saúde, that company that was born in the shadow and driven by the People's Party, the People's Party of Zaplana, of Nuñez Fêceóo, of Romey Beccaria, and we know that behind Ribera Saúde there is also the multinational Centene, a multinational company that has an almost larger budget than the budget of the Spanish State, with which it has a very important ability to influence, to influence public opinion, the media, the administration, to lobby this multinational with a lot of money, a lot of pressure, lots of resources to create opinions, to achieve its business goals. We also know that there are more than well-founded knowledge that Centene will enter the stockyard of the Cunqueiro Alvaro and there are also suspicions that it will be a relevant part in the construction of the new Coruña hospital, with which perhaps these things will be answering the question that everyone is making: how is it possible that a company that recently was in competition with creditors, in which capital was injected via renegotiating the concert by the People's Party, is of interest because a multinational? And it seems that the answer comes around, because you're actually not buying just a private hospital, you're buying a brutal pressure capacity. If the Vigo Sanitary Area was once in the hands of Povervisa, it was in the hands of Silveira, it turns out that it will now be in the hands of a multinational with a multi-incident capacity, with which they will become hostages of Silveira to be hostages of Centene. And it seems that things are getting clearer, yes, it seems that things are getting clearer. They say in my village that the truth is a daughter of time, and here sometimes a liar is caught before a thigh. It seems that Junta found out the last hour, it seemed that the Board and the People's Party just found out and we're going to see how not, as the thing came from far away, it came to boil away, but we're all quiet because he said here in the full past the advisor that this company was magnificent and he knew how to deal with health in a spectacular way. [[Applause]] Obviously, it is preceded by all corruption in Valencia, the fraudulent use of public funds and other kinds of boundaries, which are what the People's Party likes. Well, we also know that private health care in the Vigo Health Area is not complementary to public health, but it is completely substitute, and, with the steps being taken by the People's Party, more substitutes pretend it is. That's why we are presenting here today this motion, a motion in which, first of all, we demand that this Parliament show roundly its defense of the public health of Galicia, a free, universal and quality public health. I suppose none of the Members here will have any problem voting in favour of saying that we are in favour of public, universal, free and quality health. And the second part, which thus shows the opposite position that an American multinational, based in Missouri, can manage the public health of 135,000 neighbors and neighbors of Vigo's health area and with 1,400 workers and workers. And also what do we ask? For if you buy Povervisa, you buy Povervisa, you get the necessary performances to buy this hospital and move on to make a public management directly from this hospital, so that the patients and staff stop being hostages to Silveira and become hostages to Centene and receive health care 100 percent public, universal, free and of quality. There's a chance, and it's on sale, with which there's a chance, and there's a need. Opportunity because it's for sale and at a price because more than assumed. We're talking about 22-24 million euros, according to the sources we're looking at. And it does not sell an empty building, sell the ability to provide public health care to all the neighbors or neighbors of the health area, with which EUR 22-24 million is assumed by the Galician Union. And there's a need, because it's necessary to reverse the situation that the People's Party led to the Vigo Health Area, which has become totally dependent on Povervisa. And it is necessary to reverse that totally abnormal situation. What do we ask next? That this purchase should be made immediately and that the declaration process of the Povervisa Hospital of public interest should begin. We can't run the risk that a multinational every day for another decision that doesn't compensate him and leaves him without public assistance, without health care, 135,000 people and leaves 1,400 people fired. We can't afford it and from BNG we don't want to get to that situation. [[Applause]] And besides, this company has already done so, this company has already fired 140,000 people in Kentucky who provided health care. From day to day he stopped lending it to them and left them thrown away and he's already experienced doing it. I mean, we don't want this to happen. What do we ask? That as a Povervisa does not integrate into health care, into the public network, act as a guarantor of the quality of health care of the population of Povervisa. And it's not being done right now. Poverty in January 2019 put in writing that actions in public health should be reduced, in actions that were being received by public patients, in order to allocate that resource, that time, to private health, which is to guarantee what is being guaranteed to us at this time. What else do we demand? Let him watch for the maintenance of jobs, for his working conditions, because Sergas and the People's Party haven't been doing it. Despite going to renew concerts, every year with more money, they allowed more than a hundred workers and workers to be fired, they allow a vast majority to be in partial contracts simply to widen Povervisa's results account, they allow there to be schedules where nearly no workers are left on shift. That's the situation in Povervisa that's allowing the People's Party. What do we ask? That a commission is set up to follow this concert, that in that commission are the workers and the workers, because they have a lot to say and they know a lot about what's going on in Povervisa, that they are the workers and the workers in that control commission. What do we ask? An audit of the accounts and management carried out by Povervisa at this concert, which, of course, leaves much to be desired. The Board of Auditors says this, which is opaque management, that there is no clear understanding that money is destined for public attention and private attention, if staff — paid with public money — does only public attention or private attention, which are the ratios, which are the shares with which the new infrastructures were made, or whether they were buying technology. All that needs to be known, and the People's Party systematically refuses to do an audit, because it has a lot to hide, because it's an accomplice and a consensor of what Silveira has done with Povisa...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u258	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u259	...for many years. [[Applause]] We also call for compliance with the law, and the law says that these Members and Members have the right to request information. We've asked for it under Article 9, we've asked if you can facilitate the concert, if you can make it easier for us to modify the concert, if you want to know the content, the small letter. Why does the People's Party conceal the contents of the concert and the modification? Why don't you want to make the whole concert public? All this seems reasonable to us and we believe that anyone who is defending public health...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u260	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u261	...of our country will agree to vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u262	Thank you. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u263	First of all, say hello to the guests of the Povervisa Business Committee, which I think today you've been locked up defending that need to acquire Povisa by Sergas, something we agree on. There's, like the proponent, opportunity and need, and there's funds, because we're talking about 23 million euros. The reality is that at this moment public health wouldn't be able to assume the people ascribed to Povervisa and it's unreal what the advisor told us that, bah!, if they don't like Ribera Health, they'll change center. It's unreal and it's unthinkable for those more than 135,000 people enrolled in Povervisa, because the reality is that this hospital is a substitute for public benefits for a large part of citizenship. And the reality is that the Union has never effectively monitored with transparency, neither its accounting nor its working conditions, allowing precarious working conditions and frozen wages for a decade, nor has it seen for the quality of care. We will have the opportunity to ask you this last time from our group on the 5th Commission this Thursday. Thus, we consider that Povervisa is the story of a blackmail on the Government and public health of Galicia, which, of course, is permitted by the Government, because Povervisa has been holding concerts with public health since the 1970s and has always put pressure on public health. In fact, both the Mexoeiro Hospital and the Cunqueiro Alvaro were built with the dimensions and appropriations that guaranteed the continuity of Povervisa, because we're talking about it as a lucrative business, because it was when you paid for your stay, still being paid by process, but always, continuously, Povervisa claimed that the agreements with Sergas were responsible for your losses. Already in 1991 and 1994 Povervisa belonged to a group called Los Nardos and Povervisa alleged millions of losses due to delays in the income of Sergas, but the hospital workers and workers reported that they were maintaining other companies in the group. And so he continued to denounce losses until in that 2014 the concert was renewed and even in 2011, while he was negotiating the concert, Povervisa announced that he would not forward the February payrolls to his workers, and again, counsellors, without supervision, pay and still running that blackmail wheel. With that new concert, the new leadership of Povisa said that this would help stabilize the future of employment. But this is not the case. There were dismissals, there was also that reduction in the massive agenda, which at the end was due to coercion, if it makes itself unbearable, as in the transfers some workers, the work on certain shifts. And the last pressure was this September 2018, when he gets into the creditor contest and threatens Sergas with that suspension of payments. Okay, resolve yourself with that new transfer justified by high-impact medication. And everything points out, everything leads us to think that the improvement of the concert signed at the beginning of 2019 was actually an account consolidation operation to point this sale to Ribera Saúde. We do not believe that the Union had any more knowledge of it than of the press, as the Committee of Enterprise knew or as we had knowledge of parliamentary groups; we do not believe it. The reality is that Povisa now ceases to be a hospital of German capital and will become dependent on that U.S. capital, which, as has already been exposed here, if there was a pressure from this company on public health and an unacceptable blackmail, from Centene, as more blackmail will do. Because how will they guarantee, as the counselor said, the maintenance of jobs? So far that guarantee has not been effective. Will you intervene now and force Povervisa to maintain the quality of care and maintain work stability and working conditions? How? Like with greater pressure from a multinational? How? Did you ask the ascribed population of Povervisa if you want to depend on Ribera Saúde? No, no, no, no. And you have a choice? No, public health doesn't. It seems to us that it is an anomaly in the Vigo area that more than 135,000 people depend on this. Besides, it's Vigo's second company and we consider it fully justified to stop this blackmail and make health care 100 percent public; it's an essential benefit. And that's why we will support the workers in their demonstration this Thursday and of course we will support this motion. The amendments we have just made to you are to need some questions and ask for more information, because it is clear that there is a lack of information, that lack of transparency in the accounts, certified by the Board of Auditors, and that these Members and Members do not even fully transfer the concert to us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u264	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u265	Thank you, President. Good night to the workers/workers of Povervisa. This debate, not repeatedly, is no longer of any significance, and it has basically to do with two questions, from our point of view. First, what is the political position and, therefore, the objectives that we want or which we define each political group with regard to the situation in Povervisa? and, secondly, what methods do we use or believe we have to develop in order to conquer that position? The position of the Socialist Group is that we must have public attention in a public centre with public staff. So we're in favour of the whole system being held in a public centre with public staff under public attention. The question in that situation, therefore, is what the position of the People's Party is. And this is the axis of the situation, because we eventually turn the same things around and one can ask what the position of the People's Party is. It was mentioned here — if I am not mistaken, by Mrs Vázquez Verao — the word "anomaly." Poor thing is an anomaly. I think it's a great definition. It's exceptional. And so it should be circumstantial, not structural, which is the situation that poor people have lived for a long time. And so who has a private property of a structural situation within a public system has a negotiating hand that is not fair and that is not being used fairly. The question is, what is the position of the People's Party? Because you can remember and you have to remember some things that have been happening lately. Both the buyer and the seller of this Povervisa process said that negotiations began just after the renegotiation of the agreement, the last renegotiation of the agreement, just after; there is the feeling that there was a renegotiation in the form of avalanche. Not happy with that, there were, a couple of days ago, that the agreement had been made public, a million euros inserted in Povervisa to adjust some accounts. A million round; it must not have been established, but a million like the one who closes some questions... If it's concrete, it has a specific data; a million seems to be an adjustment made to the eye more precisely. And, therefore, it doesn't make the feeling that the PP model aims to reverse the health care given today in Povervisa to the public system. It seems that this is not the position of the People's Party and we have seen the rest of the opposition groups manifest in this parliament. And, therefore, this is the issue. The Socialist Party defends public attention in a public centre, with public officials. By the way — let me say — this must be equivalent to what your mayor of Sanxenxo called this morning — allow me to say, Mr President, "fucking populism". Sanxenxo's mayor said this morning. They're taking a long time to tell you something. "Bad populism": defending public health, public care, public center, public personnel. And this is quite important because, if anyone defends this we are -- and I'm going to repeat -- "fucking populists" before Sanxenxo's mayor I'd rather be a "fucking populist" than Telmo Martín. [[Applause]] As for the methods to approach the definitive solution so that the attention given today in Povervisa is public attention, there are several options. I don't know if Mr. Pazos also thinks we're fucking populists, but if he lets me continue... thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u266	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u267	I don't doubt that you can call us that, don't worry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u268	No, they don't dialogue because... [[Murmurs.]] We'll stop for a moment, no problem. We've stopped timing. It's stopped. Very bad, but, of course, I want you to... we're just finishing up. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We're gonna end up with some quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Go ahead, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u269	Thank you, President. As far as methods of achieving the goal that we have seen from our group and opposition groups define, there are several methods that allow us to reach this position. Obviously, buying the center is one; and to the Socialist Group, if possible, we look good. It's a good solution. There are more possibilities, because you may not be able to buy at the moment, as BNG itself recognizes in the initiative. There is a resolution — a text model that we have been adopting and voting in favour of from the opposition groups — which examines the possible formulas to reverse that situation, which is the final objective. If the possibility were to be bought now—it is obvious, here we have said, on several occasions—the market price seems quite appreciable. So it would be a good choice. Clearly, there is a lot of work to be done to keep no one out of the way, because there are legal problems, there are work problems, there are experiences on privatization processes -- and then a reversal of the public system -- that need time. And so it's important, from our point of view, not to compromise situations that then leave no one on the way. And that's our reluctance: we have to study all the possibilities to do it right because otherwise there will always be political groups that advocate doing it wrong. So that's the meaning of our amendment and no one else. Conclusion: Our model is clear, Povervisa is an anomaly -- we adapt that word that we liked as a definition -- it should be solved; and our goal is to public attention in a public centre with public staff. The question is, what model does the People's Party want?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u270	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u271	Thank you, President. Greeting the people who accompany us, the workers of Povervisa who accompany us among the public. Mrs. Prado, if the subject wasn't so serious, you made a screenwriter today. What a film you showed in the intervention! Of course, it's probably a cowboy movie, because, between Americans and Kentucky, I think the movie was a cowboy movie. I think the subject is serious enough not to get rid of it like that. Again we discuss the subject of the change in ownership of the Povisa hospital in Vigo, which assists an important part of the population in that area, which is voluntarily enrolled in that hospital. And you insist, Mrs. Prado, on the nationalization or expropriation of it by the Council of Galicia, appealing to a supposed declaration of public interest that we fail to understand. Look, Mrs Prado, you belonged to a government that signed with trade union centres, with the Confederation of Employers, with the University and with the hospital itself, Povisa the basic health agreement in the area of Vigo — the year 2006 —; an obvious example of the defense of public-private collaboration in those times when the Government Council promised a new public hospital for Vigo, which, as was usual in you, remained in the model. And he spoke of that agreement — listen — and he said: "...of the orderly and planned development of public and private assistance resources that provide concerted assistance in the area of Vigo, or of the commitment for the maintenance of employment in the health sector of the district of Vigo, both in the public and in the private sector that provides concerted assistance, particularly of what can be affected by the changes operated as a result of the construction process of the new hospital of Vigo." [[Murmurs.]] Unless, as you say, Vigo's private assistance is not complementary, it's not! I'm very surprised that after you and your government signed this kind of agreement, you wouldn't resign. It is clear enough and it is clear that the posture was then when they were government. Now I'm opposition. The position is different: now, of course, we must dedicate ourselves to repeating falsifications in a way that clearly gives way to the public health of Galicia. I was asking, Mr. Torrado, what is the position of the PP and I wonder what is now the position of the Socialist Party and what was it when the Socialist Party ruled. I think it's quite different. [[Murmurs.]] Why didn't you then make the decision that now says it's feasible? Why? What was the reason? Of course, it seems difficult to explain or understand. I don't know if Mrs. Prado is going to blame the Socialist Party, who then held the responsibility of the Health Council. As there were two governments... you know, right? In addition, however, the Socialist Party and its mayor have repeatedly called for an increase in the funding of the concert with Povervisa at the local level. They even accused the German Government, in October last year, of suffocating Povisa, asking that the concert be refocused and provided with the amounts the private hospital needed to bring forward the attention of the one hundred and forty thousand public health users it has assigned. In the same intervention, Mayor Caballero accused the Galego Nationalist Block and En Marea of talking about issues that are not on the table — such as the rescue of the Povisa hospital award — of urging those groups to support the petition for the Union to improve its concert. What is the Socialist Party's position on this issue? Can you tell me? We don't know. These words, of course, can justify the amendment of the Socialist Party itself. The successive People's Party governments are accused of privatisers; however, after reviewing this agreement, it seems difficult to assume that charge. But it is also spending less on concerts than was spent in 2008 and 2009 — less than with the two-party government. Ladies and gentlemen, this sale is a commercial operation between companies: Ribera Saúde is a health care company in Spain and is responsible for the hospital, staff and the current concert, which, as you all know, ends in 2022. This operation is undertaken in the current situation of concentration of health centres in large groups because of the need to share resources, group purchases and professionalize their assistance and management. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, not to deceive the workers and workers of Povervisa. Don't be fooled; it's not that simple. Povisa was compared with Alzira hospital: Povisa is a private hospital, Alzira hospital and Álvaro Cunqueiro are hospitals of public ownership. The hospital in La Ribera — by the way — since it has public management of a government that does what it does, has worse activity data, more waiting list, increased spending, sending evidences — six thousand TACs or resonations to concerted centres, worse citizen rating, constant claims by workers and workers... including, Valencian community lawyers warn, in two reports they have sent to the council, that the Ribera staff lacks working rights. Don't say the PP... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u272	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u273	...was sent by the Legal Counsel of the Valencian Generalitat itself.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u274	Silence! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u275	It says the report: La Ribera people are in a legal limbo, having the condition of staff to be extinguished, and cannot benefit from any improvement achieved by workers working in the public system: early partial retirement, internal promotion, internal mobility, full-time extension of full-time indefinite contracts or clauses of employment stability. Ladies and gentlemen, the majority group tabled an amendment to defend the quality of health care in the area of Vigo and the maintenance of jobs. We think of the two transcendent issues in the sales situation of the hospital. We call on the Councillor, President-in-Office of Parliament, to maintain the commitment he has already made public on several occasions, demanding and monitoring the performance of the concert with the Povisa hospital in the face of the possibility of changing ownership. It is about the first point of the socialist amendment. With regard to information, Mrs. Prado, it's hanging on the Transparency Portal, on Sergas' extranet. You can consult her. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u276	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Joint Left Group, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u277	Thank you, President. We are going to support this initiative; we have some difference or some nuances, but we already have some very similar and we feel — of course — a good proposal that this hospital declares itself of public interest, because we are not talking about any kind of business, but about one that takes care of the health care of one hundred and forty thousand people in the Vigo health area. The truth is, in view of the debate, I have just been puzzled, because the spokesperson for the People's Party has just justified accumulation and, in addition, has talked positively about the pooling of resources in relation to private companies that are buying most private hospitals in Galicia; that is, large companies that are absorbing smaller ones. And here, it is justified that these business hotels are based on our land and that they are also made with an important part of the health pastel, whenever resources have been privatized, via Health Insurance Act or modification of the Galician Health Act. The truth is we're hallucinating! That's what we needed to hear! Although, in fact, it's normal for you to justify the entry of these private companies into our country. It was funny to you how BNG's voicer transferred the initiative. But that is the reality: you have already privatized the Central Laboratory of the Galician Health Service, precisely in favour of this same company, through another company — because this company participates in other health companies. And we criticized it at that time and there were criticisms and repression of the workers of clinical analysis that were mobilized at that time — year 2014. And I remember going to mobilisations with the workers. And you banish a situation where companies from outside, large companies, are taking over a substantial part of public health. In this case — they are not capable of holding up for five minutes — in addition, with a previous sanitation. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We warned you and said it here last year when we asked for these accounts that you did not provide and that we had to buy before the trade register; accounts that, by the way — and I insist again — moved that, in the same year that the company allegedly entered in foreclosure of creditors, the workers and workers had already been - since that eight years ago - because it was last year - with the frozen agreement, while the company's directors brought a good remuneration to their home. I, in the last debate that we had in the committee, remember again: 600,000 euros of benefits for managers, nothing for workers and workers and money laundering at the expense of public money. The Board of Auditors' report estimated that the changes you made last year to sanitize the company, after sale, assumed that Povisa had entered the year between 3.5 and 4.5 million euros more. I mean, they reduced a substantial part of the annual debt that the company had for its mismanagement. From a business holding that last year, the year of the pre-competition, in the 2018 fiscal year, won net — net, not billing, but gain — 19.4 million euros, 19.4 million euros! And it also participates in offshore paradises, because it has an important part of its companies in places where it pays less taxes, including The Bahamas, Malta or Madeira. That's the business group you're giving money to. And that's the business group that keeps a staff -- that's the representatives here -- in the year 2010 in absolutely Leonine working conditions, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. What is being requested here is that these people have the right to eat and not be constantly threatened with a reduction in time, with dismissals or with the maintenance of a frozen agreement for almost a decade. This is the situation! Of course, last year we asked that either you expropriate because the company was in pre-competition and there was a supposed risk of closure according to the company, and logically there is a higher interest — which is health care — or whether they were done with the company. It had a heritage value last year of thirty million euros, quantified as such, given the accounts. This year it looks like it's been down the price. And the Galician Union has no interest in doing a company whose annual concert cost is higher than the property value of the company itself. I told you already in the commission -- and I'm done already -- that if you consider the case of Alzira -- that, of course, is a very different case, because it was a company that was an PSI, thanks, too, to the management in this case on the right, by the way, with the same companies that did wrong, you will have the ability to do it better and to look for the administrative formula that addresses the situation of the workers and that does not prejudice either the workers of Povervisa or the workers of the Galician Health Service. Because the reality is, in the division, they only earn you. And we're talking about workers and workers who just want to take their bread home, and a health population of one hundred and forty thousand people -- not to say, that this is, that you don't allow them to go to health care under the same conditions. [[Murmurs.]] It's-it's impossible, that's a lie, and you know it. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u278	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Author group of the motion, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u279	So, actually, the subject is serious -- as serious as we're talking about health care at the moment, one hundred and thirty-five thousand people, but that can be one hundred and forty thousand, and four hundred jobs -- is why we're bringing it here and because we don't let you try to get it from the cover to see if you didn't find out practically anyone, simply because the subject is serious. [[Applause]] And it's good enough to twist reality; they act like real triplers. The BNG actually signed a basic health agreement for the public health of Vigo's health area, where a hospital with 500 beds was to be built that would respond to the needs of the entire population of the health area and that you took care to cut so that it wasn't. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u280	Silence! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u281	Tell the whole truth! Don't read loose dogs! Of course it is: a thousand and fifty beds, and don't cut it up for five hundred, which is what you did. And the BNG brings here feasible proposals. I said there's a chance, it's for sale. Why isn't it feasible? Why can they give it to a multinational and can't buy it for public health? Somebody explain to me why you can buy a multinational and you can't buy it from Galician Union! You have a very simple explanation: because you, instead of exercising the Government of Galicia, are commercial to multinationals, act as commercial to multinationals. [[Applause]] They're selling Galicia for lots, and they're not even to the Greek companies -- to companies outside of Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] At the moment, 70% of our country's private health is in the hands of outside companies. They don't even privatize Greek companies, they don't even privatize multinationals. They're expatriating our wealth. You, the People's Party, are a profit-generating machine for private companies. Mr. Torado, the BNG doesn't say it's not possible to buy it right now; we say it's bought. And if they don't buy it, because they don't have the political will and don't want it, I say don't cheat. We say he buys. And it's possible. There's a chance, there's a need, and there's an assumed price, with which it's more than justifiable. If not, let him declare himself of public interest. Of course you do! Why can public interest be declared spaces and private lands for the benefit of electricians and can't be declared a hospital providing health care to one hundred and thirty-five thousand people? How can we afford not to make this statement of public interest and that tomorrow comes and decides to close it and leave a hundred and thirty-five thousand people and a thousand four hundred workers thrown away? Of course we can't afford it! At the BNG, we say that we should not allow it, that steps should be taken to make the declaration of public interest, to protect that interest. It's possible. Why don't you want to? Because you don't exercise the rule of this country, no. You're here to facilitate it between transnational capital. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u282	On the amendments, please, on the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u283	That's just your goal. And on the amendments, we agree to add to point five of the Joint Group and we can't admit to replacing "times" -- in any case, if you want to add "growths," because we want to know the schedules, we want to know why they come in at nine o'clock in the morning and they leave at two o'clock in the afternoon. Why, if you have full-time contracts? That's what we want to know.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u284	Point five as add to the Mixed Group. What else?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u285	The amendment of the Socialist Party and the People's Party cannot admit them because it's not the time to study. [[Murmurs.]] It's not the time to study or analyze; it's the time to take action, and the measure is to buy Povisa. That's what we have to do right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-10-22-DSPG132.u286	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Just a moment, a moment. He's finished here for today, but I want to tell you two things. It's one minute, please. One is that you can already vaccinate. It's important; it's my duty to say it. They can be vaccinated now. And secondly, I want to communicate something else that's also very important. They know that there is a standard — I tell all Members — that it is said that audiovisual, video can't be used; it can't be recorded or photographed. This is the rule. And what I'm asking is very easy: to deceive the president or deceive whoever's presiding, I don't think it's the most impotent role of an MP. I think you have enough mechanisms. If you have to record a video, staff believe you can do it. They can use Parliament's media library. If you're not going to do this, I'm obliged to use the Rules of Procedure. And if I don't see them, and therefore I can't draw attention to them for that, there you are! It will turn against all, because it will become a cross between Members, something which I do not wish. I therefore ask them to observe compliance with the Rules of Procedure. He addressed me to everyone and I don't go to anyone. Please, I'm going to everyone. So this is what I ask them to do. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing else. See you tomorrow. Very good night.
