ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. Noela Blanco Rodríguez and Raúl Fernández Fernández. And, no more, we're on the agenda. Point one. Election of a member of the Social Council of the University of Coruña
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u2	The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 2 April 2019, was informed of the vacancy as a member of the Social Council of the University of Coruña of Don José Ramón Louzao Cabo, for resignation, elected by this House at its plenary session on 26 September 2017, on a proposal from the People's Parliamentary Group. In accordance with Article 79 of Law 6/2013 of 13 June 2013 of the Galician University System, the vacancy shall be covered. Subsequently, the Bureau, on June 4, 2019, following the hearing of the Speaker's Board, agreed to open a deadline for the formalization of nominations. After this deadline, the Bureau, at its meeting on 12 June 2019, was informed of the proposal made by the People's Parliamentary Group, which communicated it to the parliamentary groups. The election, in accordance with Article 91 1.2 and (2) of the Galician Parliament's Rules of Procedure, shall be secret, by means of letters and alphabetical order. The vote shall be taken by inserting into the ballot box the paper previously delivered by the House Service in which the name of the proposed candidate is marked with a quotation mark or box. Empty votes are considered not to mark a box and null votes are considered to be invalid when the names of other persons or other signs are entered. When the vote is taken, the candidate will be declared elected if the majority is simple. I guess they're already handing out the paperwork. And we're going to start the call vote, in alphabetical order, which will be done by the Bureau's secretary. I ask the vice president first and the vice secretary to sit where the ballot box is collected. We therefore begin with the vote. Close the doors, please. Whenever you want, Madam Secretary. Give your voice to the desk, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u3	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u4	Thank you. Is there anyone left to vote? No one. [[Pause.]] Well, let's start the count.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u5	The result of the polling is 68 votes cast. Votes in favour of Mrs Immaculate Rodríguez Cuervo: 40. There are no empty votes and no empty votes. Thus, the simple majority is called an elected member of the Social Council of the University of Coruña Dona Immaculate Rodríguez Cuervo. Thank you. Open the doors. We continue with the next item on the agenda, which is the legislative text. They know that a bill has been removed and therefore we are now debating the next one. Debate taken into account by the G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego, reform of Law 1/1983, June 15, of linguistic normalization
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u6	For the presentation of the bill, you have the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Ms. Olalla Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u7	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Today we bring from the Nationalist Block Galego a proposal for a law aimed at guaranteeing the official character of the Greek and as such its use as a vehicle language in teaching. We propose to reform and update the Linguistic Standardization Act of 1983 to ensure that Welsh, as Galicia's own language, is also official language and vehicle at all educational levels. And we do it for two reasons basically. First of all, because it is an obligation of the Greek public authorities to guarantee the normal and official use of the Greek language, enhancing its use in all plans of public life. This is what Article 5 of the 1981 Statute literally says. And the data show that, far from moving towards a situation of normal Greek and equality with Spanish, as the law has said for many years, a growing part of the Greeks and the Greeks, especially youth, feels an increasing pressure to abandon Greek. These, ladies and gentlemen, are not personal appreciations, not even a conclusion to which only the Nationalist Block Galego comes, but that it is in its literality what the Royal Galaga Academy says, an institution to which I imagine and I want to think they will have a minimal consideration. And the data, in addition, confirms it. In 2013, as they will remember — the latest data offered so far by the Galego Institute of Statistics — they point out that for the first time since there are records the original majority language in our country is already Spanish. There were only two decades ago, at the beginning of the 1990s, Greek represented the initial language or mother tongue of 62% of the population over 15 years old; today it's for 40%; more than 20 points less in just two decades, precisely the decades in which most of the language rights have been legally advanced. There is a clear rupture in the intergenerational transmission of the Welsh, but even the Academy itself warns that this rupture is not solely a consequence of the decision of families, but it is full of the low presence that the Greek has in the so-called secondary socialization spaces, especially in the educational field. And that's where the Galician Nationalist Block wants to act with this bill. Because their policies, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, beginning with Decree 79/2010, far from stopping the loss of speakers, are accelerating the process until they have made the school into a disqualifying agent. Family of Gale-speaking children recognize that it is at school where their daughters and children start to change their language, most of them at the childhood education stage — and I insist that I refer again to the reports of the Academy itself, officials and the public. We are certain that they have heard of the "fifty-eight-hour challenge", an initiative driven by the Linguistic Standardization Service of the Maria Casares Institute, Oleiros, a public education centre, dependent on the Galician board, where no student speaks German, no student, of six hundred; neither ten nor twenty, zero. I'm not going to stop on the proposal that they threw at the student to encourage students to speak English, it had a huge media impact. And that should already make us reflect collectively, starting with the Government itself, who has political responsibilities. Let it be news that the student of a country would encourage him to speak his own language for two days should give thought to any government, because we treat our language as if it were Chinese, foreign or something exotic. The challenge had, beyond the objective, a very important part, that was to listen to the student himself about his experience. Do you know that the students and students of IES Maria Casares, of Oleiros, who participated in this experiment or experience, in this initiative promoted by the Language Standardization Service? You know what they said? It's a shame they didn't talk to us before, either in children or in primary school. Oleiros, 2019. It's a shame they didn't talk to us before, either in children or in primary school. Today in our country, only 8.5% of children's schools in cities teach mostly in English, compared to 72% in all cases or in most of them in Spanish. And that has a direct translation to use. Only two out of 10 people between the ages of 5 and 9 speak Greek in our country, two out of ten. Between 10 and 14 years old, 28%; between 15 and 19, 30%. To find a percentage of English usage of 50% or more, you have to go to fringes older than 45 years. A girl who has no contact with the Greek language at home or with friends and who is also denied in the classroom will not be able to use the Greek normally because they are directly stealing any contact with him. For the BNG this reality demands a determined policy in the defence of the linguistic rights of the Galicians and the Greeks, aimed at guaranteeing knowledge and promoting the normalized use of the language of this country in all areas. Don't be scared, because the bulk of the measures included in this bill are collected in the General Plan for Standardization of the Greek Language, adopted unanimously in 2004 in this House, with the vote in favour — if anyone had doubts — of the People's Party as well. We propose to raise the range of law including in the Law of linguistic normalization that all children of Galicia, whatever their initial language at the beginning of teaching, must be able to use the Greek normal and correctly, just as they are in Spanish. To that end, the Galician Union must guarantee at least one third of the weekly teaching time in English in children's education in those contexts where the predominant language is Spanish, with the intention that this percentage will increase progressively. This is literally what the General Linguistic Standardisation Plan adopted unanimously in 2004 — page 42 of the Plan. In compulsory education, and in order to ensure the vehicle character of Welsh at all educational levels, educational centres must develop as part of the educational project a linguistic project that marks the treatment of languages in the centre. For this purpose, they should include, among other issues, the treatment of Greek as a vehicle language and learning, ensuring at least 50% of the teaching in Greek. I insist that these are measures taken in the field of education in the 2004 General Standardisation Plan. It should also include the learning process of Spanish, the different options for foreign languages, including in a special way the use of Portuguese language and the links with the Lusophony—as it collects or provides article 2 of the Peace Andrade Act—and the general criteria for adapting the language learning process to the sociolinguistic reality of the centre—is not the same reality that the student of a Vigo institute lives, for example, the reality that some student or student lives in the Swarna Navia School. In addition, measures needed to ensure the progressive learning of the language of Galicia should be arbitrary as a tool of social inclusion for those people who, for whatever reason, are exempt from the obligation to study Greek, for example the migrant population that decides to settle in our country. And there must also be a stable offer of training courses in the English language to meet the needs of students and foreign university professors, with the aim of guaranteeing the right to receive English classes in higher education as well. At the beginning, they were told that this bill that brings today the Galego Nationalist Block is part of two reasons: the first, to comply with the obligation to guarantee the normal use of the Greek language in the face of the unstoppable disqualification, the constant and unrelenting loss of speakers, with the recognition of the Greek as a vehicle language in teaching. And one of the factors of disqualification is found in the early stages of education, between 0 and 6 years. That's why it's necessary, it's vital to ensure the presence of the Greek language in childhood education and also to end up with a decree that, for the first time since franchiseism, forbids giving lessons in mathematics, technology or physics in Greek. The second, ladies and gentlemen, is to give a new opportunity for the People's Party to rectify its linguistic policy and return, if ever, to consensus. They have today the opportunity to give literature to a policy that is harmful to the Greek and which is a violation of the linguistic rights of this country. And I don't tell you that either the Galego Nationalist Block, which the Council of Europe itself said in the last report issued in 2016 – we will have next in 2020 – a Council of Europe that has been warning you for years of the reduction that the decree I have assumed of the presence of the Greek in middle school. It literally says: "The expert committee emphasizes that Decree 79/2010 limits teaching in English to a maximum of 50%, with the ultimate objective of ending it by reducing to a third. This is a clear contradiction to the commitments made by the authorities within the framework of the Charter." A policy, their leaders of the People's Party, which violates the commitments made in the European Charter of Minorised Languages, which, I must remind them, requires a predominantly education in German. They have the opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to amend themselves and turn their backs on that speech that was based on lies and deceits that shook shamelessly ten years ago. That you don't mark the agenda on the right and the extreme right of Spain, not even your own leader from Madrid. They correct, because when they correct, they correct. No destination is written and no irreversible situation exists for the English language either. What is needed is the will to change things and to act, if they really put the defense of Galician rights and interests in front of the partisan interests and positions that attack the Greek language. They demonstrate — and this concludes — that they want to rule and not only receive instructions. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Round of parliamentary groups. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. The Language Standardization Act responds to the mandate of the Constitution and also to the mandate of article 5 of our Self-Government Statute. And this law says, in its explanatory statement -- and I quote textually -- "Language is the greatest and most original collective creation of the Greeks, it is the true spiritual force that gives unity within our community. Join us with the past of our people, because from it we receive it as a heritage, and we will be united with its future, because it will receive it from us as a legacy of the common identity." I quote this because these words indicate the importance that was given at the beginning of Autonomy to our language and which was reflected in this Standardization Act, which proved to be fundamental. As the Members who defended it in this Parliament said, it was a fundamental milestone for the recovery of the full rights of our language, which means the recovery of our people's identity, of our communal personality, as stated in the defense of this law by Ramón Piñeiro. It was a milestone. The Members who have adopted it, who have defended it and who have unanimously approved it have seen it so. Just as they saw that it was absolutely necessary to achieve the highest consensus, and that is why this law was drawn up by a joint presentation of all political forces, and, as Mr Ceferino Díaz said — and I quote too — "I think we can make a law of all, striving to achieve unanimity, because the Greek, as the official language of our land, must be defended by all political forces." [[Applause]] As a general law, Mr Ceferino Díaz — certainly we must also consider — in the defence of the law, hoped that this would be a defense that would continue, not in the symbolic act of today — that day of 1983 — but that we all struggle for the normalization of our language. The will of the legislators of this law is made clear. And, as a general law and if the current circumstances were different, i.e. if all the political forces represented in this Parliament and the Government of our country continued to maintain the spirit of this law in search of a concert, a unanimity around the language, as it was sought and achieved at that time in 1983 and later in the General Plan of Standardization, if the language had never been at this time, in these past years, an element of confrontation, of confrontation, of confrontation, of confrontation, in order to carry out a process of standardization — he said — if all this had been so, if it were still so, our group would not consider it necessary at this time to change the law; in any case, it would be necessary to modify it globally and with the joint understanding of all political groups. In normal conditions, I said. But right now it's not in these normal conditions. And it is not because the political will to seek consensus, not to face through language, is not present in this Parliament, in this country, in Galicia, since 2009. Because the People's Party, with Mr. Feijó in the head, broke this consensus, and broke it just by a handful of votes. I think it's necessary to keep repeating this truth, because the truths, if they don't repeat themselves, end up becoming facts that don't respond to what really happened. And we need it — it's true — because, in addition, the People's Party, on the right, always has a great ability to manipulate the truth. [[Applause]] And I'm going to tell you why this is it. The breakdown of consensus was not made because the People's Party did not agree with the decree by the Government presided over by Mr. Touriño, of a coalition between the PSdEG and the BNG, that is, it did not agree with that Decree 124/2007, a process, by the way, of building this model decree, because it was the first time in the whole history of our Community that the Government called the three political forces represented at that time in this House to consent to a text. And it was done, this text was agreed. Whether it was agreed that there was a press conference between the Education Adviser, the PSdeG, the BNG and the People's Party where the People's Party congratulated on the consensus reached, and this is in the hemerotheques, that is, this is something that cannot be denied. Of course, later on this press round came the mandates from above and also from Genoa and the miseries of a party that was capable of everything by a handful of votes. And so this consensus was broken. [[Applause]] This is the story, which is in the hemerotheques. It's hard, ladies and gentlemen, to forget the photo of a current Vice President of the Government of Galicia watching a demonstration against our language, and that photo is also in the hemerotheques. Because, ladies, there are photos that can't even be forgotten. [[Applause]] And this consensus was broken by the Government of Feijóo when he arrived in the Government and promulgated the so-called decree of plurilingualism, a decree — I remember, because I think it is necessary to say it again — that we not only oppose ourselves, the party of the BNG and En Marea, no, gentlemen; opposed to this decree the Royal Galega Academy, the Council of Galician Culture, the School Council of Galicia, the Sectoral Bureau of Education, all political parties, with representation or without it — except for one moment and two at this time — the unions, the Confapa, the jurists, the universities, the movement of pedagogical renewal, the Consultative Council. Who was supporting him? The PP, nothing but the People's Party. Is that the consensus? Is that what Mr Ceferino Díaz said at the time, but also the People's Alliance Member in 1983? No, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. That is the total rupture of a consensus, of an element that is to unite us, never to separate us. And after all, of this decree of multilingualism, what happened? What happens always when the reforms are carried out on electoral grounds, when the reforms are carried out on spurish grounds, not on grounds, in this case, educational and scientific knowledge. What happened is that use and knowledge, especially the use of our language, is decreasing. What happened is that the teaching of the Greek, especially in the early stages, has been reduced. It has been reduced so much that, as Mrs Rodil said, even the Council of Europe, through the experts, of the Charter of Minorized Languages, accuses Decree 79/2010 of the reduction in the use of Greek. But he also accuses the Royal Galaga Academy of the same, which claims that the decree is producing a reversal of the progress made in the past. The same is true of the Council of Culture. What else do you want to hear in order to know that the decree of multilingualism must be abolished? The data I don't repeat, because Mrs. Rodil has already told them. Look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, as we have said on many occasions, all groups, as we have already expressed through dozens of initiatives, the Socialist Group too, in this Parliament, must find a new pact for language, end with confrontations and fight all over the Greek. We therefore consider it necessary to support this initiative, and it would be a good time, a new opportunity for the People's Party to change its attitude and reach a consensus, to regain a consensus that must never be broken. The language, ladies and gentlemen, must be an element of union, of union between us all. Therefore, we demonstrate that we are able to return to the spirit of the drafters of the Law of Standardization. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u11	Good morning, ladies. Well, this shouldn't be a debate, not polarized or out of place, we think it has to be a serene debate, because there are many prejudices that continue to surround our language and that prevent its actual normalization. What's good is that reason is imposed. And to see that this is a more intact law that applies is an obvious one. Our parliamentary group will, of course, support the reform proposal put forward by the Nationalist Block Galego. With regard to the legal framework, it is also evidence that our legal framework is that there are two fully official languages (Greek and Spanish) and that their speakers must be equal in rights and duties, since that equality recognized in the laws is a future objective and not an effective reality in the present. And in his own language condition of Galician Galician must be a special object of respect, support and promotion. It requires a preferential presence in the non-university educational system. With regard to the loss of speakers, linguistic plurality is a wealth that must be maintained, protected and valued. But the situation is serious. We're too far from the fact that the competence of the student in Greek is similar to that of the student in Spanish. The teaching model preferably in English — i.e., partial or complete immersion — is the best way to guarantee this objective that all students and students in Greek, be Spanish or German speakers, end up with sufficient and similar competition in both languages. There is a broad academic bibliography, based on research and experimentation in different contexts, which demonstrates it in a powerful way. In particular, very prestigious entities and institutions have been mentioned here, which should be referred to. I will also reiterate this question because it is very important. The report of the Royal Gallega Academy on the language and society in Galicia between 1992 and 2016 insists on the progressive loss of spokespersons, especially among the younger people, and on the collapse of intergenerational transmission of the language itself, and urges the Administration to act effectively to counter a dangerous drift to the language. The Royal Academy of Galicia, as it has done on other occasions, points to the controversial Decree 79/2010, which we will also talk about later, which has replaced the previous one, which guarantees precisely a minimum of 50% of the subjects in compulsory education in Greek, and gives this decree the cause of the reversal that the language is suffering in the educational field and also as an influence for the possible decrease in its use among the newer in general. The Royal Academy also warns you that it cannot fail to express itself in a tone of alarm in the face of the petty uses of Greek by younger people. It is clear that there is an involution of the presence of the Greek, and so has the Council of Europe, which reprovoked the Council for its linguistic policy in its fourth report on the fulfilment of the European Charter of Minorised Languages, as it has already done in previous reports. The Committee of Experts has censored the performance of the Government of Greece, particularly as regards education. The Council of Europe also called for legal changes to ensure the presence of co-official languages. The international community does not understand how a treaty such as the Charter can be signed and then grossly violates it and exalts itself to do so. Defending our language is defending democracy, human rights and culture. Here's also talk of fallacies. To me comes a threshold from ProLingua, which said, "Falsies do a bad thing when they fall on the ground." There's a lot of mischievous cliffs that break down on the ground. But reality is tangible and verifiable, even if it is denied. The precariousness of our language is an undeniable fact. The PP has, in the last few years, basically maintained a strategy of harassment and overthrowing the Welshman, which can even be hardened. It wasn't always like that — then we'll explain. It is maintained, for example, that language problems refer exclusively to the rights of individuals, while the recognition of the existence of collective linguistic rights is rejected. Each language is inseparably an individual and collective phenomenon, it lacks sense of the dichotomy that opposes the individual and the collective. Likewise, the notion that individuals freely choose the language they speak is fictitious, because each person learns to speak in the language or languages he is in contact with in the early years of his life, by simply immersion into the social environment in which he develops. Prejudice about a supposed imposition on the Greek has speeded up the process of disqualifying the girl in schools. A study by the Council of Culture warns of how the myth of imposition and of belligerent attitudes with language and youth was called. Obviously, the decree of plurilingualism broke the tendency to improve the presence of the Greek in the classroom and its formal and informal use. I wanted the Autonomy Statute, as Mrs. Olalla Rodil explained very well. It vetoes the distribution of mathematics, technology, physics and chemistry in Welsh, it places our language at the edge of the increasingly important scientific and technological reality, sending a message to the students that Welsh is a second language. The famous decree against the Greek, passed from back to back to all the educational community and with the unanimous rejection of it all, was repeatedly denounced by the Royal Academy, by the Council — which, in addition, warned that the school does not seem to function as a dynamizing element of the use of the Greek—, too — as it has already been mentioned — by the Council of Europe and many other institutions; they all point out that this standard seriously put the role of the Greek in school. We can't hide their very clear insufficiency, because there's only a few children's school bonnets in Greek, as you've already said here. However, Decree 79/2010 called for the linguistic deprotection of the Greek in teaching and the decrease in its presence, without having achieved full normalization, with an attempt to include as a vehicle language of teaching English, a change which has been denounced by the appointed institutions and social groups to defend the language and, in particular, by the Bureau for Linguistic Standardization and Queremo Galego. The Bureau also reported that younger generations are leading an accelerated process of monolingualization in Spanish at a rate that neither foresees the results of previous demolition studies. It's an old problem that makes each study worse. To guarantee and promote languages — they are collective constructions, basic tools and the necessary educational and social dimension — requires well thought-out planning and greater social consensus. I would end by saying that, really, the People's Party in the General Standardization Plan, approved unanimously in 2004, made a minimum of 50%, which is what we are asking today, of the subjects in English, and encouraged that subjects such as mathematics, scientists were divided. The 2007 decree applied to PP, and it wasn't always against that norm, and I quote Manuela López Besteiro: "We expect the same humanity and unanimity today." We also believe it is very important to defend the Peace Andrade Law, which has to do with this law, and above all considering that Portuguese is the third language in the world. In a recent agreement between the Brazilian Academy and the Galician Academy there was talk of joining wills for the benefit of all. I appeal to this union of wills also in this Parliament, by decency, by compliance with the law, by cognitive intelligence and affectiveness. We can't lose our roots, we're a community of fate. Dialogue is fundamental and we must establish bridges between origin and the future. Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u13	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Mrs Cuña began her speech by referring to the need for a quiet debate on the language issue. Of course, I totally agree. I believe that whenever I went up to this forum to speak of language I sought and we sought — and that is the position of our group — to keep the debate quiet. What happens is that sometimes it's complex, because, when you're manipulating and twisting reality and turning around, making a linguistic twist to the limit of meaning that they defend a consensus that they come here today to break, they have to understand that it's complex for us to endure and maintain that rest in the debate. Because they come here and bring an amendment to the law adopted unanimously, by broad consensus, in 1983, at a time when there were no majority in the House of Wales, with the effort that I supposed to bring forward that normative text, and in addition it was the text that allowed decades of legislative progress — as Mrs. Rodil said in her speech — to defend the Greek, and here they come to propose their amendment, passing on. I said to Mrs Burgo: in normal conditions, the ideal would be to resume the consensus for the amendment of this law, and action followed says: but we are not in normal conditions. Hey, but what do you want to move to society? You're still painting that reality of the Galician society of dystopian novel that nobody believes. They continue with this permanent confrontation, trying to use... because from there comes the language twist that I want to transmit to them. It's that you're talking over and over again about the fact that you have to consent, that you have to rest, that you have to talk about these things calmly, calmly, with a broad vision, at the same time that you are moving to the citizenship the image that we are in a society of confrontation, that there is a majority political group that wants to end with the Greek, that we are again and again articulating measures against the Greek, and that still above society, that refer those measures to their electoral support, because it's also in some way collaborating with that destruction of our language, our language, our identity. Do you realize this is a coat of hair? It's just that this is a coat of hair! [[Applause]] Because look, Mrs. Burgo said that we must continue to repeat this truth. I was talking about the People's Party wanting to break and break the linguistic consensus and you were saying that you have to keep repeating this truth so you don't forget it. Look, the truth is not necessary to repeat it, because the truth has an empirical correlation, and by having an empirical correlation anyone can prove it. Do you know what it takes to repeat again and again to make it true? The lie, which is what you do with linguistic debate, repeat the lie over and over again, to see if that becomes true. But bear in mind that the truth is not necessary to repeat it, anyone can prove it, it has to go down to the facts, go down to reality and see it. So I think we should be a little bit more prudent when we talk about this issue, because we do little favor to the language — and I have it repeated to satiety — and we do little favor to the language if we are using it as an element of political confrontation. In addition, when we have a legislative tool of a broad consensus, as was the Law of linguistic normalization, and which we now want to load by art of brilbiirloque, that we want to unilaterally modify without a prior agreement and there is no previous work to see if it is necessary in this context to carry out an amendment of the norm, because then, that we come to repeat this again and again to us we are at least less striking. Because look, you're set up in that permanent discourse of the twist of reality, of linguistic twist, of post-verity, of that neophal who wants to create concepts, that in the end what you're doing is twisting the meaning of words, changing the relationship between meaningful and meaning, and telling people that what you see is not real, that they're embedded in a kind of dreamy delusion, that reality has it you have and that what you tell people the senses is a pure falsehood, it has no relation to reality. So, in the fact that you articulate, you come to make statements like that, if a decree is passed by the Bipartite, it's good; now, if a decree is passed by the Government of the People's Party, it's bad, regardless of whether in both cases it is approved by a government that enjoys a majority, in one case a majority that is well-produced by a coalition and in another case a majority that has a political force to support the citizen directly to that political force. But, of course, they're still twisting reality and truth over and over and over, and in all areas, eh! —this is not just a question of linguistic debate. We have something very fresh these days. You are the ones who defend that the political forces that lose the elections have legitimacy to rule, as we see in the councils, and yet the forces that win elections have no legitimacy to rule if they are the People's Party. Of course! If not, they'd have it. [[Applause]] So you're going back and forth, turning around that mackerel, turning around that mackerel, but of course, as I said before, this possibility, this creation of new concepts, this invented reality of what you want to make out of, because it has short legs. Why? Because at the end of the day, citizenship has eyes, meanings, and information from outside, and still has -- look at what you do -- critical ability to check if what they say is true or false. That's why you're in the situation you're in, and we're in the majority group, which has the majority support of citizenship. Look, the current Language Standardization Act has been weakened since consensus and thanks to the capacity of dialogue and the opening of sights of those who have created it, and it remains in force today, being a valid framework for progress; for us it is a valid framework. They do not tell us again and again that we return to consensus, when we never move from it, and it is you who are constantly bringing this House changes, measures and ways to break that consensus and to emerge from that consensus. We have followed at the same point as we were in 1983, which is the point of defending our language, defending our identity, through a normative tool approved unanimously by this House, and which deserves all respect for us, but for you it seems that, for some reason, you have to change, finish. But I'm going to tell you what's the reason. The reason, at the bottom, is the underlying reason for all this is that almost obsession with the derogation of the plurilingualism decree. Because, of course, what I was saying before, if a decree does, the Bipartite is good, if it does, the PP is bad, and then we have to derogate it. What's the matter? We'll put all the tools on the table to derogate it. They tried to do it through illegalization or through the search - let's say - legal cracks in the decree of multilingualism. Of course, once you see that they are told by the relevant authorities that the plurilingualism decree conforms to legality, what do we have to do to make it illegal? To change the law, because if we change the law, we can automatically get the decree no longer to fit reality. I mean, again, again, those scams, those games to try to get out of consensus, but, of course, telling people who break consensus and get out of consensus is the People's Party. I mean, we continue with that fiction and that invented reality. Because, if you want to do a serious analysis, you know -- and in addition to the reports they mentioned -- that it is not a unique responsibility, for example, in the school area, to the situation in which the Greek is currently in. Because, in addition, if it was unique and exclusively dependent on the school area, we would have to say that Welsh is in a perfect state of health, because it finds in the school area its broadest degrees of knowledge in history. Because look, Mrs. Rodil, you used to set the example of the IES of Oleiros, in which you said no student or student spoke in English. Well, you know — as I know — that in that institute — just like everyone in Galicia — these students, who speak or don't speak Greek by their own decision, if they examine themselves by Greek, if they know the Greek, if they present themselves to selectivity and do the exams in Greek, and if they have a broad knowledge of the Greek language, which is what they have to guarantee the school. But, of course, that's not good for you. For you, school would have to do something else. No, for us, school has to equip students with the tools they need to know the language and use it on their feet of freedom with others. It's our vision. Look, I know you guys have a different one, but, look, don't try to impose it on others, and don't lie. Because, I mean, let's go back to reality. They come here saying that in that school no one speaks German, as if in that school the Greek was absent in the classroom. No, that's a lie, and they know it perfectly. There is precisely a decree that guarantees the presence of the Greek on an equal footing with the other languages in that institute, as in all other Galicians. So... let's go back to it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u14	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u15	How can I say that? It's just, look, I'm telling you more... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u16	Quiet. There was silence during all the other interventions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u17	...you don't have to say it. Any citizen... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u18	Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yeah, let's stop the time. No, I mean there was silence during the other interventions, you weren't at all. [[Murmurs.]] Ah! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Then there was silence. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I didn't hear you interrupt anyone you spoke about before. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Therefore, they must also respect those who are in the use of the word. It's democracy. Of course! [[Murmurs.]] Let's all go, come on. Continue, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u19	Well, thank you very much, Mr. President. He said it's not necessary to repeat it or say it, but anyone can check it out. We go back to the same one I used to say: the truth, fortunately, has an empirical correlation. Anyone can go to a institute in Galicia and check that the Greek has an equal presence with another language. So stop lying, stop lying, because no one believes them. So, we're going to try to speak from reality, speak from the common sense, we're going to stop once and for all using the language as a tool of partisan attack, and we're going to try to work to build a country, to do a rigorous analysis of the reality of our language, to try to work to improve its presence in all areas of society, but eliminating that permanent obsession of using the language as a partisan attack tool. Because, look, when we use the language as a tool of partisan attack, we're sending a message, from my point of view, bad to society, because we're telling you that what unites us has to be an argument to separate us. And look, we, modestly, think we should never try to separate ourselves from what unites us. So let's stop playing this game, let's stop trying to separate ourselves from what unites us, and we all collectively defend the consensus in language politics and the reality of Greek society, which tells us: we have to defend Greek, we have to work for Greek, but we don't have to deal politically with the use of language, because we are finally finishing and signing the death act in many cases of what might be a reasonable use of our language. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u20	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Replica, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u21	Thank you, President. First of all, and for the sake of not forgetting, also thanking the support of both the Socialist Party and En Marea for a positive initiative, which is what we have brought, an initiative to move forward. Debating is not generating conflict or a permanent confrontation, no, it is opening a framework for collective progress. Because, in addition, if you think that opening a debate on any matter is to generate a conflict, a confrontation that is almost unbearable for the whole population, you're about to ask that electoral processes be dissolved, aren't you? [[Applause]] Debating, confronting opinions, contrasting views and political projects is democracy, and we should do a lot for it. Every day I am more convinced — and I was also saying in my first intervention — that we called for a return to consensus — if at some point you were in it — and I believe that, after your intervention, Mr. Fernández Gil, you were not in consensus in your life, you were not in consensus in your life! [[Applause]] Because everyone's mind, everyone's mind, everyone's less the People's Party, which is in possession of absolute truth, right? We do not say this, which goes against the language rights and the collection in that consensus of 1983 of the Law of Linguistic Standardization — and, by the way, also of the General Plan of Standardization of the Greek language of 2004, which for you has disappeared, has disappeared so much that it has not been mentioned in your speech. We do not say so, that it goes against linguistic rights and that it is accelerating the process of disqualification in our country; it tells us the data of the Galego Institute of Statistics, the reports of the Galaga Academy, the reports of the Council of Culture, the reports of the Council of Europe, the trade union organizations, the movements of pedagogical renewal and, of course, also the Galego Nationalist Block. We don't break any consensus, none. We collect, when we had the opportunity, in their literality, what the General Plan of Linguistic Standardization -- I insist, to refresh the memories -- supported and approved unanimously in this House. And the goals of teaching, of the educational field, is not only that you have the matter of Language and Literature Galegas and you acquire grammatical or lexicon or literary knowledge. It literally says the General Plan of Linguistic Standardization itself—we insist on returning, over and over again, to those instruments of which this country has been unanimously endowed—as objectives of the area itself of the teaching sector: 'ensure that compulsory education guarantees full competition in the Greek language'—you stop reading there—and effectively impact on its adoption as a common language by the new generations'. And that's not happening. And he says to the Academy — to quote institutions that can be recognized at least by you, but it is not that, here, he has accused himself of lying to the Galaga Academy, the Council of Culture and even the Galego Institute of Statistics, which — I don't know — must be at the service of the Galego Nationalist Block — and what all the indicators tell us is that, although we have been endowed with the only guarantee framework since the 1980s, or that he is promulgating the linguistic rights in this country — because before, never before, they exist — what is going on in a contrary sense. [[Applause]] You were talking about a dystopia, but it didn't give a single data, because when we came down to that reality of the facts, of which you were talking, reality doesn't speak in terms that the People's Party talks about. I finish only with a question. We have brought a positive proposal, we have a debate with data, we have a debate with those institutions, those reports that support the reality that the Nationalist Block of Wales, among others, is denouncing. It's no partisan attack tool, as it was said here. The only one who used the language in an electoral campaign to confront as a weapon is to rebolade itself, to divide the Greek society, was the People's Party. And not in 2009 alone, not in 2009. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] We came to an election campaign where you presented yourselves to the Congress of Deputies with an electoral program that violated the language rights of this country. [[Applause]] That is also known by the Greek society. [[Applause]] Voting of the taking into consideration of the legislative text
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. At the end of the debate, we proceeded to the vote. We vote. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. of the Nationalist Block of Wales, for the reform of Law 1/1983, of 15 June, of linguistic normalization The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. Consequently, the consideration of this bill is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u23	After the vote, please open the doors. We continue with the third point of the agenda. The opinion of Mrs. Adviser on Infrastructure and Mobility, on your own request, to inform you of the Board's planning to continue moving forward in the challenge of proper management of the integral water cycle
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u24	To formulate this appearance, you have the word of the Infrastructure and Mobility Advisor, Ms. Ethel Vázquez Mourelle.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u25	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, I come today, on my own request, with the objective of reporting on the work done in recent years on water, addressing the already done and also the important challenges we have in the future and that we have ahead: achieving proper management of the integral cycle of water, a task that we have assumed with responsibility since last September, and we have this new responsibility before us to contribute to that adequate management of the integral cycle of water. A task in which provision of supply and sanitation services is of the utmost importance, which, as you know, is exclusive municipal competence, but where the Union wants to be involved, and, as it wants to be involved, it is already becoming involved in this task. We are committed to an intense work to address the challenges that we are facing, which are important, given that we need to adapt, adapt the entire management of the entire water cycle to this new climate change context in which we are. The truth is, we're not saying it rains less, but the rains regime is changing, too, the temperatures, and it rains differently. Now they know there's a shortage of precipitation over a longer period and it rains more intensely in much shorter periods. So we have to anticipate and prepare for this new climate change context and we cannot relax. And the truth is, we must all work in coordination, because the challenge is certainly not the least. We know that there is no greater prevention than proper planning and, of course, good coordination and cooperation. And we must not forget — I believe that all of us are responsible — what happened in 2017. The vulnerability of certain supply systems in that drought event period was evident, and this risk was highlighted in municipal competition supply systems. I believe that, with the event since 2017, we must all learn, put all means and be prepared and of course help the local authorities in their competences, both in the face of possible evidence of drought, that risk of supply to the people of our towns and cities, and also in the risk of floods, floods that can be caused by very intense rain episodes in very short periods of time. I, in the face of this new climate change scenario, will try to explain our actions to undertake, follow and continue this path that has already begun to extend sanitation, supply and purification services; also the path along the integral sanitation of the rivers of Galicia; also the work of monitoring and monitoring the quality of the waters of our rivers and rivers, which is within the competence of Galician Waters the management of the hydraulic public domain in Galicia-Costa; and also this work of constant technical and financial support to local authorities in the execution and management of hydraulic infrastructures, to comply with the European directives: the Water Framework Directive, the Waste Water Directive and also the Flood Risk Management Directive: a collaboration and a work done in what has been needed to manage Europe to obtain European funds, essential for Galicia. I also want to tell you about the new tools that we are making available to citizens and municipalities to collaborate and cooperate in the exercise of the responsibilities that we all have together in the entire water cycle. Working together, therefore, on those goals that must be common and we must all share. Prepare ourselves all to meet the new needs in Galicia, in the context of climate change. As I said, the rains regime, of course, is changing, the truth is that Galicia evolves and infrastructures, of course, must also evolve with it. We need to be more effective and more efficient in that integral water cycle, because -- I say -- in road matters, and of course also, and mainly, in water matters, so important is to make infrastructures like how to exploit them well; to do them and keep them. Not properly keeping an installation is like throwing public money into the drain. It is a great challenge, therefore, that we have ahead of us to ensure the provision of supply and sanitation services to all citizens, and also to eliminate those negative impacts of the footprint on the environment. In line, therefore, with the Water Framework Directive, with that new perspective of managing that resource, water is not only a resource, but also life support. Water is a valuable loan of nature that we all have to preserve and care for, because we all know that without water there is no life. The abundance of water was a differential fact in the Greek culture. I think it's reflected in our population dispersion, in the 100,000 rivers that make us up, linked to many traditional uses. We have our singularity, that territorial peculiarity that makes us different but that also forces us to add effort and collaborate together. The councils are the ones who have direct competence in supply, sanitation and purification services, and grant it the Law as a basis of local regime; a law that in 2013 basically reinforces the role of collaborating, supporting and assisting the municipalities themselves. The Government of Spain has responsibility for these works of general interest of the State in Galicia and also for the watersheds it manages. And Junta also, through the Galician Waters, as a conca organism in Galicia-Costa, hydrographic demarcation, has the competence in hydrological planning and the ability to assist municipalities in municipal competences, as we have seen for many years; this technical and financial assistance to local entities in the development of the water infrastructures necessary to achieve the efficient and responsible use of water resources. And being also aware that this effort requires sensitivity, care, involvement in responsible use of water by all, responsible behaviors that we must encourage among all through awareness-raising campaigns and educational and educational activities. Ladies and gentlemen, the improvement in the quality of the water masses and the good state of the waters also passes through our rivers and rivers; a priority matter of the Greek Government in which we are thrown, working with measures, with actions, with investments, to contribute effectively to achieving that end of comprehensive sanitation of our Welsh rivers. The basis of everything is, above all, good planning; a planning that we have on the large scale, which is the Galicia-Costa Hydrological Plan, complemented, of course, in Galicia with the state's hydrological plans competition, such as the Mino-Sil basin, which quantifys available water, regulates uses and sets quality targets. But there's also small-scale planning, detailed planning, essential to achieve that adequate management of the integral water cycle. And here are the local sanitation plans we put in place. Identifying needs, planning works as a whole, etc., because the water does not understand, in its journey, the municipal boundaries. We also need technical planning, with technical criteria, to help the municipalities in a matter where they have competence; a technical planning in which we collaborate with the universities of Greece to look for different purification solutions, for example, that are more sustainable. Here we have the sustainable drainage techniques already put in place, for example, in Boiro, and the technique and ponds for the treatment of rainwater. And also the Local Sanitation Plan, where we're doing this is looking at the palm of the entire existing municipal supply system, identifying the network, the purification systems, the pumps. Concrete and complete diagnosis is being carried out, modernizing the entire sanitation system and proposing solutions. We can have multiple examples, because the truth is, before we expand a debugger, we need to analyze the network in depth. I think anyone can understand that a debugger that can be at the capacity limit, if we see that the network has too many water infiltrations, its is not duplicate the debugger, but act on the network; I think anyone can understand it. Just like having a well-programmed pump can do the shipment of waste water to the debugger. It's therefore an entire joint system, sewage-cleaning network-pumping systems, which must be analysed together. We also have on that planning scale detailing the spill control plan. Plan of control of spills in Galicia-Costa, which is where the waters of Galicia have their competence; then there are the concas of the confederations of the state. The goal is to identify all those spills, identify them and amend them, from the city councils' hands, to their disposal. We are also working on the small scale in those areas of potential flood risk, in those basins in Galicia-Costa, to design and also execute those performances, from the city halls, to reduce the risk of flood, complemented, of course, with new warning tools to help in emergencies, as we have seen in recent years. We can't, of course, change the occupation of river margins by historical settlements, but we have to look at, together, how to reduce those risks with warnings to the population, with proper behaviors, and do it from the city halls, because it's also a matter of civil protection, and I'd say urbanistic as well. Also on that small scale, on that detailed scale, we have the Dry Plan and these analyses and studies of Galician Waters analyzing and identifying the vulnerability of supply systems. So we have planning at different scales and different typologies, and the truth is that in the last decade we have achieved a huge qualitative leap in the territorial extension of supply and debugging services, as a result of the joint effort of local authorities that have the competences, of the General Administration of the State, which has competence in works of general interest and also in their own basins, and also, essentially, of the betting and ingenuity of the work and investments of the Galician Board to help the municipalities in that task. Thanks to this joint effort, the level of water infrastructure coverage in Galicia in recent decades has been really important, especially in purification infrastructures, seeing in addition the data from where we left. Thirty years ago there were only five debuggers, there were pretreatment, not purification systems, and the fact is that today, thirty years later, we are talking about one hundred forty-eight debuggers in these agglomerations of more than 2,000 equivalent inhabitants, and therefore more than 90% of compliance with European sanitation directives this year 2019. But we must continue to work and to know the peculiarities and difficulties that we have in Galicia that distinguish us from the rest of the autonomous communities: territorial dispersal, which increases our efforts in infrastructure, both by executing them and by exploiting them. With this in mind, the model of sanitation and supply in metropolitan areas I think anyone will share that cannot be the same as the model of sanitation and supply in rural areas. A peculiarity, that dispersal, which makes it difficult for administrations, essentially municipalities, to manage these infrastructures in small municipalities, which have technical and also economic difficulties for a better exploitation of systems. A peculiarity and singularity which, in relation to the provision of sanitation and supply services, becomes difficult. They are therefore pending matters that we must face and solve, but, of course, together, both in new infrastructures and in renewing the supply or sanitation networks themselves that may be obsolete. He spoke of local sanitation plans as basic piar, the small scale of detail, to develop concrete actions on sanitation and to bet on water quality. Well, the protection of water from rivers in the Greek Government is a priority. We are talking about fishing, seafood, tourism, our beaches; a real value, both environmental and socio-economic. And that's why these local sanitation plans are born in the year 2009 in the Galician rivers; a path where collaboration is essential. We have a clear and absolute bet on the cleansing of the Welsh rivers by the Galician Union, and we need to maintain this continued collaboration with the municipalities, on a constant basis, in order to comply with the European directives that we are obliged to comply with: the Water Framework Directive, the Waste Water Directive, in order to achieve that effective and efficient management of the comprehensive sanitation of the Welsh rivers. In order to advance this integral sanitation, we've seen an important effort in planning, programming and also in investments, infrastructure. We have put in place, and there are, the clear examples in the Arousa River and in the Burgo River, important features, there are the results. The Burgo creek went from zone C classification to zone B classification, and you can therefore extract molluscs. And we continue with new local sanitation plans. We have already advanced, applying the experience of the already done, with contrasting results - as I said - in the Arousa River and in the Burgo River. There's the sanitation plan in Pontevedra. We are also working on the Sanitation Plan in the Cee-Corcubion system, in the Sanitation Plan in the Ares-Betanzos River, in the directors' plans in Betanzos and Sada, to identify that palm-to-palm diagnosis, analyzing the network, the purification systems, the pumping systems, to identify the necessary actions. And another example is the Local Sanitation Plan of the Noia River. Thanks to the implementation of these sanitation plans, the municipalities responsible for these infrastructures have very valuable information and a diagnosis needed to exercise their own responsibilities properly in the management of the entire water cycle. The fact is that in the last ten years we have also been making an important effort in terms of sanitation and purification infrastructure, providing assistance to the municipalities. And since 2009 the water effort made by the Galician Union has been really important. We have mobilised more than EUR 1,100 million in this area; 350 sanitation actions have been carried out that have benefited 165 municipalities. So, specific facts, infrastructures put in the service of citizens, in particular forty-five new waste water sinks, which allow capacity to be given to 1.5 million more inhabitants, added to those we already had in 2009, and therefore 39% more in the Sanitation Framework Directive. Infrastructures that need to be done and kept. Therefore, a significant leap in compliance with the 39-point Waste Water Directive since 2009 in respect of this Directive. We have significant examples: the Lagares Debugger, in Vigo, more than 80 million euros financed by the Galician Union to meet the Community standard and achieve better quality of the waters in the Vigo River; Ribeira Sanitation, which now also meets Community requirements thanks to an investment of more than 18 million euros; the cleaning of the Burgo River, with an investment greater than 100 million euros, thanks to that local sanitation plan that we have promoted since the Galician Union, and today - as I said - can carry out seafood activity. We also contributed to the financing of the Bens debugger, necessary in the Coruña area, and to the emissary to improve the quality of the water. Therefore, important actions that I hope in the Burgo River will correspond to the Government of Spain and continue with the regeneration and dredging of this stream, which is state competence, and which adds to the commitment of the integral sanitation of the Burgo River. And working and ensuring with these large investments more performances, like those we're doing at the Galician Union, control, monitoring, inspection and sanitation of the facilities, installations that we've delivered to the municipalities for their proper operation. Since last year, we've been running 148 clean stations managed by the Town Councils, to whom we helped and advised to operate properly. Every year we've been conducting more than four hundred visits, and I can announce to them that we have conducted about a thousand annual inspections to advise the municipalities in this debugging system, in these debuggers, so they can be properly exploited; useful information that helps the municipalities to -- I insist -- not only do them, but also keep them, which is also very important. We must also highlight this intense campaign of the spill control plan, where we inspect, we control these contaminant contributions to the public domain from land to sea, which is where we have competences in Galicia-Costa and in the waters of Galicia, and more than five hundred polluting spills have been taken into the public domain of the sea-terrestrial, of which most have been amended by the spills of the Galician rivers. So with the data in hand we can affirm this important effort in planning and programming matters, in investments in spill control in the last decade, which allowed us from the Galician Union, working together, taking a giant step in the sanitation of the yellow rivers, a qualitative leap in three fundamental aspects, the improvement and extension of sanitation and purification services. As I said, we've increased the clearance capacity to 1.5 million equivalent inhabitants, here's the graph. The graph from 2009 to 2019, looks at the exponential jump, a giant jump. Yes, we've gone from 1.8 million inhabitants to 3.3 million inhabitants equivalent to purification systems, so it's a very important leap. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Someone doesn't like it, but the truth is that this giant leap there is, in matters of sanitation and purification, helping the municipalities in their competition. A qualitative leap also in the improvement of service delivery. 90% of urban agglomerations already comply with the waste water directive, as I said earlier. And also in the improvement of the quality of the water in our rivers. From 2009 to today, ten percentage points have risen in the improvement of the quality of the water that is in good state, so 76% of the water masses are well state, ten percent higher. In any case, we are not satisfied and we must continue to work together for the integral sanitation of the rivers of Greece, exploiting well the infrastructures already made and making the infrastructures that are missing, which we have programmed, by the hands of local authorities, running those pending works. That's why we're going to keep pushing and running new performances to help the Town Councils. There's the new developer of Viveiro, who's scheduled. We have the funds, we have the money made before the European Union. To solve the operating problems, we hope to have all the municipal documentation of the Viveiro Town Hall to move on. The new debugger from Foz, which is also programmed and we're working. In Ferrol the sanitation in Malata, which we have completed an investment of 7 million euros to complete all the comprehensive sanitation actions in the Ferrol River. The process of adjudication of the pleasureres debugger, with more than 16 million euros, which we want to complement with that performance of the submarine emissary. We have the most important, which is the money, and also the projects. And we want to comply with the European Commission's guidelines for the comprehensive sanitation of the Pontevedra River. Working with the State, I also hope to see progress as well as it can be in the debugger of Raxó, which also influences the comprehensive sanitation of the river Pontevedra. And in parallel to the care of rivers, we cannot also forget that management and custody of the rivers of Greece, which is our unique natural heritage. The care and protection in Galicia-Costa are 15,000 kilometers of rivers. They know there are other cocas in Galicia that are the powers of the state. And we promote a new river culture where the care and care of our rivers is not only a work of a concrete administration, but it is a joint work of all, a work of all society, and to be fully aware that rivers also allow the balance of our ecosystems. There's going to be the river project, where we collaborated with Adega, which we saw renew annually. In fact, we have recently renewed the new agreement to develop together with Adega the River Project, which implies the protection of river ecosystems involving society as a whole; an education and volunteering program that we have seen jointly developing together together together with Galicia and Addega. We are also very present here, in addition, the infrastructures needed to debug the wastewater that goes to our rivers, and we have been collaborating with the municipalities in an appropriate management of these municipal infrastructures, while we have seen the strict and constant elimination of these spills that we have seen from the waters of Galicia, controlling the fulfilment of the discharge parameters, managing the warnings of discharges to the hydraulic public domain and also advising - as I said - the municipalities in the very purification systems of which the municipalities are held. Also with new policy measures. That new decree of Galician Waters that we are working on to facilitate the execution of minor works. Avoid authorization and allow themselves to be made solely with a responsible statement, facilitating such minor works. We'd be talking about 500 applications that would benefit, which would be from being authorized only a responsible statement; an important administrative simplification that would make it easy for anyone who wants to make a mark or just change windows in the public domain area, who know it's 100 metres from the river bank, so he can do it with a responsible statement. Also essential are the cleaning and maintenance of rivers; a maintenance program in the rivers of Galicia-Costa, which is where the waters of Galicia compete, and the improvement of river beds. That's why we made a guide for the conservation and management of the rivers of Greece, with greater coordination with the local administrations where we have competences, which - I repeat - is Galicia-Costa. We consider it important to establish these homogeneous criteria and to protocol those actions for the conservation of rivers in Galicia-Costa. That's why we made and published that guide, to facilitate the best management and care of our rivers, bearing in mind the new climate change context, to protect us against flooding. It is a guide that clarifys the responsibilities, the joint work, which gives greater transparency and identifies the long-term truces of competence of the Galician Union and the urban truces that are the responsibility of local authorities because this is what the 2001 National Hydrological Plan itself says in its Article 28.4, and also the Supreme Court's own judgments, which indicate what these urban truces of the rivers are. We want to help the municipalities in their competences, so we have made this new tool available to them, this guide, and also a GIS viewer on the Galician Waters website, to make it easier on a map to identify these urban truces. Of the 15,000 kilometers of rivers in Galicia-Costa, the fact is that there are 300 practically, they don't reach 300 kilometers, the rivers of urban truce, the rest would be interurban truces. It must be borne in mind that for the Autonomic Administration, in addition to the conservation and maintenance of the rivers, where we are investing millions of euros a year for their cleaning, it is also important to work to protect the population from flooding. Now, with the new climate change context, we need to be more prepared and more vigilant. There we have these areas of potential flood risk, which we have already defined and demarcated for a long time, and the truth is we help the municipalities when there are exceptional situations and we act immediately. We have examples like in Viveiro, in that urban truce where those floods happened. It was an emergency and, of course, we have to regret what happened, but we've been working from the first day on and we've made investments of 100,000 euros available to fix. And we expect to work together so it won't happen again. Just like we're talking about floods, we have to prepare ourselves for that other problem that comes from climate change, like drought. The lack of water isn't that we're used to in Galicia, but the truth is it's a matter that as the years go by, it's more relevant. I don't think I have to go back to 2017, that we all remember, but all administrations must plan, prepare and jointly address this new challenge that we have before us: to carry out responsible and sustainable water management by everyone; to avoid risks to ensure the supply and supply of water in quality and also in quantity to the population; and to give agile and accurate responses. In this sense, as you know, the Law of Local Plans determines the provision of the public supply service as a municipal competition, but in the Greek Government we have clear the need for us to involve ourselves, and we are engaging and supporting in this service, assisting local administrations, collaborating and helping them. In fact, since 2009 we have committed 300 supply actions that have benefited 186 Greek municipalities, moving forward in the guarantees of water supply to the population. We have a lot of examples, as in the Ames-Brion system, also in Monforte and also in Cervo-Burela. We also move forward in the policy area with the Dry Plan, with the demarcation of Galicia-Costa; a plan that is an own tool for assessing decision-making, taking measures and minimizing the adverse effects of this water-abstaining situation; a plan that collects measures related to the use of water, responsible use, intensify savings and achieve an even more efficient use, limiting the use of water, prioritizing uses that are priority and ensuring supply to the population. In spite of all, it is also necessary for municipalities to have their own instruments to manage these drought episodes, to act with diligence and also effectively. Since the Galician Union, we are moving forward in the law of supply guarantees measures, to speed up the response in drought episodes at health risk, a legal instrument that we want to be useful and effective in helping that task, ordering and delimiting all the tools to coordinate us among all administrations, to ensure the supply of drought periods with specific means, especially where we have more competences, which is in Galicia-Costa. A draft law on security of supply measures. I can move forward that in the next few weeks we will be in a position to approve it at the Council of the Union and bring it to this House. And I take advantage of asking for collaboration and sensitivity to all House groups for a matter as important as responsible use of water. I therefore insist on everyone's responsibility for responsible use of water, and I also ask for it in this House by all political groups. It is a law that affects important aspects, such as the need for local administrations to provide adequate tools to manage drought episodes, emergency plans in the face of drought. I would also like to point out that the Members themselves, whom the law has already given them in 2013, are more intensively attending and supporting the municipalities in these emergency plans, which we consider essential, especially what we have seen in recent years: to count on emergency plans in each of the municipalities in the face of drought. The fact is that the municipalities of more than 20,000 inhabitants are bound by state basic law. It's not like the advisor or an autonomous law, he says the state basic law of a long time ago: that they provide these emergency drought plans to the municipalities of over 20,000 inhabitants, they're forced to do it. But the truth is we have no council today that has approved its emergency plan in the face of drought. We are willing to help and want to help, so we are going to call for an order of aid so that the municipalities will have emergency plans in the face of their own drought, with a total of 250,000 euros, which is mainly focused on small municipalities, which are the most difficult. We will finance 80%, and we hope that Members will also be involved in this very important area, the responsibility for responsible use of water, and that we will provide ourselves with these drought emergency plans in the municipalities and local authorities. An order of assistance that we have just approved at the board meeting recently, and that this month we will publish in the Official Journal of Galicia to assist the municipalities in the elaboration of that anti-drought emergency plan. I personally believe that the current problems in supply networks need to be addressed; avoid network losses, supply networks. I hope you share it with me. I think we have studies and we have data that indicate that there are losses in municipal supply networks that reach 40% of network losses. I think that we can't afford this, and of course, this is nothing efficient, 40% of net losses. So we must perform a proper exploitation, a good maintenance, and also a renewal of networks to avoid network losses. This line also goes to the Supply Guarantees Act, and we will take into account the request of the president of Fegamp, setting out a period of two years so that the municipalities can do these audits to identify and specify where the losses are found on the network; and also a reasonable period, after those two years of audits, to carry out the necessary works to fix and avoid those losses on the network. In order to secure future investments, we have already managed Europe and have transferred the momentum and need of European funds to the competent authorities to ensure that these infrastructures are sustainable for efficient and sustainable use of water, as well as European funds to prevent such losses on a network. Of course, avoiding net losses is the most sustainable we can have in supply; in my opinion, of course. We look forward to the Government of Spain's complicity so that this line of European funds to avoid net losses can be achieved before the European Union. Of course it would open up a lot of possibilities to improve the entire water cycle and ensure supply in areas such as Vigo, for example, and to be able to opt for Community funds in such an important matter as this. I'm done. I think that in this first intervention I tried to summarize the work done over the past years and also the lines of the future in which we are moving forward. In this context of climate change where we have to anticipate, we have to prepare ourselves all. I have tried to explain the measures and strategy to combat the effects of climate change, to ensure the proper exploitation of the integral cycle of water, the correct and proper management of the integral cycle of water. I believe that we must involve all of us, also the political groups. There's a lot of way to go, there's a lot to go on, and I hope that in this roadmap of the future that we've moved forward to a better management we've got constructive approaches in this House that are viable and that are serious. In any case, in my next intervention I am at your disposal to clarify any question. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u26	Thank you very much, Counselor. We started the round of parliamentary groups. Mr. Bará Torres has the floor by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u27	The environment is a bit cold. Let's see if we warm it up a little bit, because there's a bit of cold in the benches. Counselor, welcome back to the audience session, which was logically requested by you, although we do not understand very well, after listening to her, to which she came here, who came to tell us. Really, no news. I don't know if he's touched by the government's rotation to come, but if he had nothing but to tell us that what he told us here, really the balance, both for the past and for the future, especially for the future, he seems really poor, very poor. Let's put a suspension on him, Counselor. Sure, because... eh? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] A suspension can even be worse. This balance is ten years, and you have a lot to do with that balance. You came here to say that your responsibility began in September 2018, but it comes from beyond that, because you were director of Galician Waters, or president of Galician Waters, already in 2009; then you were environmental advisor with powers in hydraulic matters, successor of the never-weighted Mr. Hernández and Fernández, or Hernández and Hernández, the protector of rivers, as we know. You've had a lot of responsibility in this matter all these years. So, as it is time to make a balance, for us the balance is summed up in a double "p": paralysis and propaganda. Stop it, because you're in a kind of automatic pilot. I think they're letting me spend the time here at the end of the legislation. They're governments with no pulse, no impulse, and there's the facts. You were some sort of Titanic orchestra but now you're becoming a sort of band into a catamaran, you don't even get to the transatlantic, they go down, they go down, they go down, and this is really worrisome. What's the matter? They're trying to cover up the paralysis with propaganda, Counselor, and I'm sending myself to the DOG. You just awarded a contract of 3 million euros, twenty months, curiously up to the end of your term of office, to carry out the propaganda campaign of your advisorship at the three feet of your department, which are: water, road safety and mobility. Three million euros to be added too -- see, this contract is already adjudicated to a company called JJ -- another in processing, is a strategic plan for the development of content and media. And then there's another one, in addition to the development of institutional videos and infographics. [[Murmurs.]] It's a pity you haven't helped him before, because that's why you didn't come with this little paper that taught us here about that graph, which is really very poor, Counselor, you should have the means to make some more infographics. [[Applause]] In bad infographics, to see if with this contract, which is 102,000 euros, it gives them to make a few promotional and propaganda videos here at the end of the legislation, which is their main objective and priority in the remaining twenty months. They've already made the contract for the 20 months, if they don't advance, of course. Paralyze, desire, undo, and if we had to also put a note of color on this balance, we would say it's a brown balance, or black balance, but rather brown, considering the quality of the waters of the yellow rivers. It's very brown, here's very little blue, very little green, and very brown and very black. We have enough evidence that this, in fact, first of all, is a matter that says a lot about your work and your responsibility, which is the execution of the budget, Counsellor. You know perfectly well that in 2018, in the planning and management chapter, the departure of 38 million was reduced to 25 million due to an absolute lack of management capacity, as if there were no works to do in the area of hydrological management for no more than 25 million euros! But this was so during the ten years, they left out of execution about 200 million euros all over the period. Secondly, the failure to comply with its own regulations and the inability to plan. You said here that the competences are exclusive to the municipalities. Because there is a water law that clearly establishes which are the powers of each Administration and tells us which are the competences of the Union in the field of works of general interest to the community, for example, or in the field of debugging. I have the law here, that I don't lie. You were responsible for the waters of Galicia when this law was made, you'll know what we're talking about, right? "It is declared of interest by the Autonomous Community of Galicia the Urban Wastewater Purification Service, whose material scope includes the regulation, planning and final approval of projects, construction etc. " It's Junta's competence. What's wrong? That you didn't make the necessary planning, because this law also says that you have to make a general plan for supply and a general plan for sanitation. Where's the Greek Sanitation Plan? Or do you make houses starting with the roof? In fact, we have to make local plans, but before we make local plans, we have to make the general plan of Galicia, and it's not done. In the Galicia-Costa hydrological plan there's a game to do it, and that plan ends in 2021. When are you going to do the Welsh Sanitation Plan, Counselor? By the way, local sanitation plans have a processing procedure that is written in the Rules of Procedure. When do you plan to fulfill that plan? Why are there periods of public exposure, of consultation with the municipalities, when are they going to do so? With Pontevedra for three years, I don't know if they're going to make it public at any time and open it to the consultation and to the arrivals of the administrations concerned. Another outstanding matter which is in the law and which they have not complied with, Counselor. When will the Tip be created for sustainable water use? Because this council is provided for by law and it is not created, and it is a fundamental organ to inform, precisely, all planning. And it's been said that it talks about the sustainable use of water that you referred to. Well, if we have a council, we can make a fencapé and give an example to the citizen as well about the Government's commitment to this matter. And going down to more earthly or aquatic issues, if you want, in the water supply, on the theme of Vigo and its area -- because it's not only Vigo -- you've been fighting for years in this absurd confrontation between the Galician Union and the Vigo Council with this issue, without giving it a solution. It's not just a Vigo problem, it's a problem in the whole territorial area, over 400,000 inhabitants. And in the Galicia-Costa hydrological plan, which you've mentioned here, there are 20 million euros in this period to invest, and all they've achieved after all these years is to sign an agreement of 200,000 euros, which work has cost, and they're already bombing it now, because they're already in the confrontation again, that they can't be three days of truce, and they've already pulled out the war axe again against the Vigo Town Hall, as we've seen these days. But here the big problem is the laughing stock situation. You assume that you have invested more than 1,100 million euros, which is not true because there are also included - we suppose - state investments in large debuggers and also European Union funds, logically, but also state funds, to convert many of the laughs, most of the laughs, into real black wells. The laughs are in a red alert situation, they're in an emergency situation, Counselor, and that can't be. We can talk about the Burgo creek, the Ferrol creek, the Pontevedra creek, the Arousa creek. There's a terrible report from the University of Vigo about the Arousa River, about the threats it has now, too, and they're going out in the press these days. And I told you about Pontevedra. You spoke here about the new debugger, which is a patch, because it's 16 million euros and it's not going to solve the problem, but it's your responsibility. Like the emissary, who is now going out on the videos. He gave it to a good video of that campaign that will do all the shit that's throwing the emissary in the Pontevedra stream; and it's an emissary, a debugger, which is the responsibility of the Galician Union. By the way, you posed in these municipal elections a plebiscite about the stay of Cence in the river Pontevedra and lost that plebiscite, because there were 15 concellers and concellers in the corporation, elected, who defend the exit of Cence from the river. And next Saturday there will be a mayor of the BNG in Pontevedra Town Hall, despite all the blackmail, pressure and harassment campaign that you did. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] But, of course, you've forgotten an important matter, where is the local water pact? You've been praying for the local water pact since 2013 and then announcing Beatriz Mato in 2017 that they're already going to give a boost. There are two documents that are stored in the drawers, which are not approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u28	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u29	You didn't talk about this. When will the local water pact be approved? By the way, what there is a 2017 parliamentary agreement, driven by the People's Party, with two fundamental issues: tariff structure, which has a lot to do with the saving and sustainable use of water, and investment planning to avoid the partisan use that you make of institutions, resulting in large amounts of money. I'll tell you today and I'll tell you tomorrow too, an absolutely partisan use of public funds.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u30	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. You have another shift later. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u31	I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u32	It's already fifty seconds!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u33	And the solution goes through...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u34	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Bará Torres utters words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much. [[Mr. Bará Torres utters words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much. Your time is up. [[Mr. Bará Torres utters words that are not perceived.]] Then you have another turn, Mr. Bará. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. The Socialists' Parliamentary Group has the floor to Mrs Vilán Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u35	Thank you, President. Good morning to all Members and Members. Good morning, Infrastructure Advisor. Water, fire, earth and air. I will quote Shakespeare: "I have heard him say that the cock, the trumpet of the morning, with the loud and acute voice of his sound throat wakes up to the God of the day and that to his announcement every strange spirit wandering in the sea or fire, in the earth or the air, flees to his doom." Water, fire, earth and air are the four elements that the Presycratics began as the four elements of nature. But you broke up with the Prestocratics, because now water is no longer part of nature, now water is part of the market and infrastructure. That's why you come here. And he says, "We've assumed responsibility since September." Water has existed long before and nature also. "In a climate change context we have to anticipate." No, we can't anticipate it anymore, because you've been ruling Galicia for more than thirty years, and anticipating these last ten years of government is difficult because climate change is already here, and you didn't anticipate it when you had to anticipate it. And there were warnings, but, of course, there was that cousin of Mariano Rajoy who said that of climate change because... he had to see it!, that it was not safe. You can't anticipate anything anymore. You can come here and tell us those milongs you just told us, but nothing else. And you shouldn't be here, the environmental advisor should be here. Of course!, it may have something to do with the Environment Advisor being mayor of Melide on his day and since 2011 the Furelos River has been so polluted that no one can bathe on the river beach, year after year, since 2011. And, of course, how will you come to talk about the water cycle and the purification cycle of a woman who was responsible, as mayor, of a municipality where debugging is a disaster? [[Applause]] The water cycle, which is capture, supply and sanitation; debugging also, therefore. In the year 2000, the United Nations General Assembly declared human rights, fundamental rights, basic access to water and sanitation, because it is linked to people's lives and dignity. I mean, this about efficiency, efficiency, the market and the infrastructures of what you've been talking about, you're not the focus. It's not the approach, Counselor, that's the problem. You had to come here to talk about water access as a fundamental right, that's the question, that's the focus to understand what this water cycle roll goes about, not to talk about infrastructures and give data of millions of euros as you talked about, but it didn't tell us what they were doing. That's not serious, Counselor. In the last two years, we've had a drought that we already have to get used to because of this climate change that we can no longer anticipate. In 2017, the precipitation deficit was almost 50%, and that can happen again because of that climate change that we can no longer anticipate. And we can no longer trust those basins that traditionally had the ability to bring water to others because, probably, those basins also have a deficit at some point. We believe that we need an integral management of this water cycle, but understanding access to water as a fundamental right for all citizens to this resource. That — we believe — is the European Union's approach, and it is the approach of the Government of Spain, and we believe that it should be the focus of the Galician Union; a guarantee that it will cover supply, quality, safety for people's health, the best possible treatment of waste water spills, and you have not spoken to anything about the protection of aquatic ecosystems, as if it had nothing to do with water at all! We think you need a hydrological audit and you need to get a hydrological transition law forward to Galicia. We propose that there be a Hydrological Transition Act and that they also take responsible consumption measures. You did not speak for anything of the aquifers, nor of the ecological tails, nor of the day-to-day management of the use of drinking water, starting by setting an example through public buildings—not mentioned— He didn't talk about giving priority to the processes of positabilization, nor did he talk about those awareness campaigns, which I'd like to know where they are. We need them to make decisions now, these decisions and many others. And I'm saying already because at the Council meeting on 1 March 2018, we talked about the development of a draft law on measures relating to the use of water resources. At that time, a study period with Fegamp was opened through agents involved; we don't know what happened. In that board of directors, we talked about a law on measures against drought events and other exceptional situations -- we're talking about March 2018 -- we're in June 2019. Even in this Council, a special plan for improving the quality of water for human consumption has been discussed; a plan that, by the way, already exists, has been in charge of the Health Council since 2016. In April of that year, 2018, the Galician Waters Rector Council met and spoke of that water supply guarantee law to the population you just announced to us here. We're talking about April 2018 and we're talking about June 2019. Nor do laws — I have finished telling you three laws — three announcements of three laws of which we know absolutely nothing; exactly as we know nothing of your promises in your electoral program: regulation of the whole water cycle; local water pact through a convention; small supply and debugging systems in the municipalities — you are so concerned about leaks—; unique model for the management of the debugging systems that are between the municipalities and the Union; technological system of improvement of efficiency in the management of hydraulic infrastructures. All of this was in your electoral program, but neither laws nor electoral programs, and the worst, no budgets, no budget data, now that Galician Waters receive no help from the council -- from any council -- because it has its own funds, and revenue, in addition, has been increasing. In 2009 the budget for the set of hydraulic works was around EUR 177 million — 2009 —. By 2019, 92 million; a decrease of 48% by 2018, but you have to add the decrease for this year 2019 by 9%, more or less. Budgets go up, for hydraulic infrastructures they go down. And the budget execution, General Account of the Autonomous Community for 2016 and 2017, which is the latest data we have, reveals to us an absolutely bad management. In 2016 and 2017, with an initial departure of EUR 107 million for investments in hydraulic infrastructure, you stopped spending EUR 79 million; 107, only spent 27. That is, no laws or electoral program, 57% less budget than in 2009, and they stop running 79 of 107 million euros in 2016 and 2017. Indeed, what you said before: a qualitative and quantitative leap in the last decade, indeed. And then, that constant financial support to the municipalities through the agreements we find with Galician Waters, which we would like to know how they are elected, on the basis of which criteria, advisor. How is it going to be all right to clean up waste water with this economic data? It's impossible! Ría de Pontevedra, de Ferrol, do Burgo, de Noia, de Arousa...—you didn't mention the Ría de Arousa!—, de Viveiro. The Edar de Praceres, de Poio, de Ribeira, de Viveiro, de Santiago de Compostela, de Bertamirans, de San Miguel de Reinante (in Barreiros). Counselor, you said the following sentence: "How are we going to talk about expanding debuggers when we first have to do a study and talk about improvement?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh You in Praceres have proposed an extension of the debugger, counsellor, and in the face of social pressure, now they say that all they're going to do is improve it, but you have in writing a preliminary project of enlargement of the Praceres debugger. Now you come here and say that's a barbarity. But what are we left with? What local sanitation plans are you talking about? Ría de Pontevedra, contaminated and with toxins. Ría de Arousa, speak to the sea councillor, and tell him that those muds of the dredging of the river Pontevedra, which you've had to do for years now, don't send them to the island of Salvora, wouldn't be too much; neither the one of Tambo nor the one of Salvora. It would be nice if they talked to each other. And in Burgo's laugh, years waiting... by the way, in Vigo's stream it was made a debugger not with the money of the Galician Union, as you want to sell us here, but with money that put the state and, above all, years, by the way, European funds. Don't sell us movies! In Vigo it seems they didn't get out too well that film they told, and the evidence is in resignation, even of the few and few advisors who presented themselves to the municipal elections. Of course, that's all. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u36	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u37	You didn't mention the marine coastal area, which should be a protected area, that something will have to do with water. We invite them to amend their own Natural Heritage Law...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u38	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u39	...and include it. Scheduled — already finished — debuggers in Viveiro and Foz. Is that what it is? What programs is it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u40	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u41	Counselor, I used to quote Hamlet, and unfortunately this about the market and infrastructure gives you something to smell...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u42	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u43	...to rot in Galicia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u44	For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Cal Ogango has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u45	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, Counselor. It seems to us very good to come and talk about a matter as important, as transcendental, as valuable a resource as water. A fundamental issue in the present, but, above all, in the future, in order to preserve the life of the planet in the next generations. As Mr Bará has already told you, we really don't understand the one who came here very well. I was hoping that, in the face of such a serious and problematic situation as the guarantee of access to water, you had come here to announce some star proposal, some change in course or some forceful plan to deal with this problem, but really, you haven't told us anything new at all, just what you were already doing, that obviously — seeing the data — you are not doing it well. Instead of coming to this meeting to bring no novelty to the face of such a serious problem as we're talking about, we'd prefer that you're doing serious actions to solve this problem. We also miss you not talking about the conservation of the resource itself. Because if we talk about the whole water cycle, we don't just talk about infrastructure, we basically talk about the conservation of the resource itself. And that's what I'm going to talk to you about, too, because, since you don't bring any newness or do any powerful performance, at least it serves this appearance so that we can give you our opinion on the issues that we think you're doing wrong and the things you should do. I will begin by talking about the situation of the rivers, about which you have spoken, Mrs Vilán. He did speak of Arousa's laugh, he did comment on it, but, surprisingly, he set as an example of managing the actions they were doing in the Arousa's stream, and about that I'm going to start talking about it. In the Arousa River, the situation we have is that we have an EDAR in Arousa Vilagarcia which has been waiting for over ten years to be improved, which is bearing a much higher burden than it should handle and which is directly overlooking the river without managing. And in the last few months, we've had two very serious vegetables. We have the situation of EDAR in Ribeira, which was inaugurated three years ago, with an investment of more than 20 million euros, and which today is still not working properly, three years later. That's the example of his management in the Arousa River. And speaking of the Arousa River, we would also like you in your reply to tell us about your intention to deposit the dredging sludge of the Pontevedra River on the island of Salvora, because, as you know, in the area where you want to install those sludges, of which we do not have information about what kind of sludge they are and what polluting agents they can have, because we already know that we are demanding that to accommodate a dredging of these characteristics we need deep reports about the sludges and that contain those sludges, and you intend to deposit them at the entrance of the Arousa River, the largest and richest stream of Galicia. That's your example of sanitation management in Galicia: the Arousa River. We also have the situation of the river Pontevedra, with the situation of Praceres. You were talking about comprehensive sanitation of Pontevedra's creek. The integral sanitation of the river Pontevedra goes far beyond what you've named. First, the EDAR of Pleasures needs to be improved but not extended. We need EDAR proximity, proximity management. In order to completely clean up the stream of Pontevedra we also need to remove Cence from there, and in order to completely clean up the stream of Pontevedra we have to remove those infrastructures that are changing current changes, such as the fillings of the port. That's an integral sanitation, you're not talking about integral sanitation. The drought of some less than two years ago, of which you have been speaking, has highlighted the new reality: prolonged droughts and the guarantee of access to water in Galicia can become a first-level problem; a problem that did not exist in Galicia, but the irresponsible policies that have been applied over the past few years have made us come to this situation. Now you'll tell me that climate change is a natural phenomenon. I don't know why he put that face on me. Obviously, we have come to this situation because of the irresponsibility of the policies that you have been implementing. That's why we're in the situation of environmental crisis and climate crisis, because of the policies you've been applying all these years. This situation that we have with the problem of drought, of course, has to do with climate change and poor water management in our country. To address the integral cycle of water, we have to fight climate change as a first task, and on this we miss that you haven't put solutions on the table for this problem, because I think it's the first thing to deal with: reverse the consequences of climate change and the galloping advance of climate change. You've been looking to the other side of this problem for years, possibly the main problem facing our society because, if we don't solve this problem, all the others are left in a background, because this is what can allow us to keep life on this planet in decent conditions. We're in this situation for the policies that you're applying. It's not like when it rains and we don't know why, as Mariano Rajoy would say. The situation is responsible, and you are the main ones responsible for reaching this situation. And the most serious thing is not only what they've done so far and what makes us in this emergency and alarm situation, the most serious thing is that even today, with all the reports we have on the table, with all the scientific studies on the table -- even there are reports from the UN that we have ten years to reverse this situation and that after that we can't turn around -- you are still without correcting and continuing to pay no attention to this serious problem. To deal with this problem there are two fundamental lines, which have to do with the energy transition and which have to do with sustainable mobility. In these two questions, his government is rarely suspended, and that's where he has to act to start preserving the water cycle. With regard to supply infrastructure, we have already brought initiatives into this plenary. We have brought a GNP, to which the People's Group voted against, so that the Galician Union will cooperate with the municipalities in a plan aimed at dealing with this problem that you said was one of the most important and in which we agree that it has to do with the lack of efficiency of infrastructures and water losses in infrastructures, which reach up to 40%, and possibly more at some points. You voted against, threw balloons out and put the ball on the city hall roof, who know that in many cases they don't have enough resources to deal with it. And then what we propose is that the Council of Galicia is really involved in solving this problem and making a plan in collaboration with the municipalities. We understand that Galician Waters is the main responsibility for ensuring access to water and good water conservation, and from that responsibility you should be acting. A year and a half ago we lived in an emergency situation with the supply of Vigo and also the situation of Ourense that served us to see a face between Feijóo and Abel Caballero during those days, but that was absolutely useless, no solution was put on the table, the only thing that was proposed was the crossing of the River Verdugo, which is an environmental barbarity. I was proposing urgent, because it was urgent to deal with the situation, but a year and a half later the problem is that, once that emergency is over, nothing has been done at all. It's been over a year and a half and if today we have the same climate conditions again, we'd find ourselves in exactly the same situation again. And why? Because in the past year and a half they didn't do anything at all. It's been a year and a half of an emergency situation and we seem to forget this problem. If we find ourselves in this situation again, we'll be exactly the same and we'll see Abel Caballero again and Mr Feijó blame each other, but the problem remains unsolved. It is clear that there is a lot to be done at the municipal level, and we understand that this collaboration framework needs to be established, both to build investments on the efficiency of the infrastructure itself and to establish action plans and good practices for water conservation. We understand that we must review the use of water for the streets bucket; the models of gardens and sources; the tariff systems, which are covered by consumption, which are more than contrasting that this works as an element to reduce the consumption of water and to take a greater awareness of the importance of the water value; and the investment in the efficiency of the water conduction network. That's why we ask them to act and not just look at the municipalities and tell them what to do. By the way, if you know any Town Hall of the People's Party that's doing it well, you can also set an example for us to copy it. As I don't have time, in the reply I'll talk about some issues that you haven't commented on, which I think are important, such as industrial consumption and the problems we have with investment plants that are affecting a lot of water consumption, and also with some actions that the Galician Union has defended and that are a water problem. So I leave it to the replica because now it doesn't give me time. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Cal Ogong. You have the floor, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Trenor López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u47	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is regrettable but also revealing your stance on the treatment of water in Galicia. I suppose the difficulty you have to maintain a position consistent with what they say here and what they do where they govern can be an indicator of the complexity and difficulty of maintaining an efficient and sustainable sanitation, debugging and supply system. But it's regrettable their role, either by denying reality, or by denying their responsibility where they rule, or by doing a superacting exercise where they don't govern. It's very worrying that you're unable to recognize the work being done. You disqualify reality and that's why you're disqualifying our land, Galicia, only with the sole objective of disqualifying this government and the political party that represents most of the feeling of the Greek people. We have a lot of challenges ahead of us, and the worst thing we can do is to do what you do: not assume your responsibility where they rule. That's at best, because in other cases you boycott and hinder the work of the Galician Union. As I said, ladies and gentlemen, they do not assume the powers of each Administration. We have wasted time in this House justifying the disqualification of mayors who are not doing their job, and we have lost time in sterile debates to confuse and justify ignoring the regulatory framework and the competences of each administration. Ladies and gentlemen, the basic regulations on local regimes, the Law regulating the bases of local regimes, as well as the Law on Local Administration of Galicia and also the sectoral regulations on water, the Law on waters of Galicia, establish that the municipalities have exclusive competence in the field of supply and sanitation. So there is no debate about who is responsible, the law determines that the provision of this public service, of the public supply and sanitation service, is a municipal jurisdiction. Clear this up. and without withholding any competence from the councils, our group is in favour of collaboration between the administrations, and that is why we believe that the Greek Government must assume responsibility for ordering and supporting the municipalities in that service; and the central government must act with diligence in those actions declared of State interest. The first thing we should ask in this House is for everyone to act with responsibility. Everyone who has responsibility in any of the administrations must make them serve the general interest rather than the service of the parties. In the previous plenary session, I myself defended the importance of the municipalities having adequate tools to be able to manage drought episodes; that all municipalities contain emergency plans against drought. You know what's going on? Despite the fact that there has been a legal obligation since 2001, the Law of the National Hydrological Plan in Article 27(3) so that the municipalities of 20,000 inhabitants or more will have these emergency plans in the face of drought situations, today neither the mayors of the Tides da Coruña, Santiago and Ferrol will have emergency plans, nor the mayor of the Nationalist Block of Pontevedra, Mr. Bará, who says, what do they tell? No, they don't. [[Mr. Bará Torres utters words that are not perceived.]] Ourense's guessing he'll do it now. [[Mr. Bará Torres utters words that are not perceived.]] But you, Your Honor, who boast of management, who boast of what they're doing, have been in government for many years and have not been able to draw any contingency plans yet. [[Laughter]] That's his hypocrisy, that's his lack of responsibility, and then he comes here to teach others. And what do you, Your Honor, the deputies, of which you also boast about your work, so that the small municipalities contain these emergency plans? Absolutely nothing, nothing at all! Nothing at all, despite the competences they have, according to article 26.36 of the Law regulating the bases of local regime, which was further strengthened in 2013 with the rationalization and sustainability of the local administration by amending the Law of Local Plan bases, so that provincial deputies can coordinate and manage some services, including the supply of drinking water and the evacuation and treatment of residual waters of municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants. So, ladies and gentlemen, stop messing around, make yourself available to those municipalities that lack the means to develop these emergency plans and facilitate their elaboration. It's 500 million euros that manage the deputies, please put them in the service of the citizens. You set criteria for your management. I, when the budget debate was here, with the appearance of the presidents, saw how you assumed that Members now had no criteria for making investments, which allowed everyone to make investments as they considered more important. But didn't you assume that there were no criteria, that there were no priorities? I told them that this is the absence of politics, what you're defending in Members is the absence of politics. They have no criteria, they have no priorities, they have no goals. The only thing they do is what is it? To share the budget among your mayors, among your mayors. They will empty the Members without any criteria. That's the big contribution of the Nationalist Block to it. But look, about competition, for use of something, that sometimes opposition parties also have something good, the Podemos and En Marea Group has brought a law to Parliament. And precisely in that law, its Article 7 clearly states that the competence of water services corresponds to the municipalities. And they also ask for the help of provincial deputies. Because if they don't want to listen to the People's Party, at least the Podemos Party in Madrid, which Podemos here seems to have got pretty far away from the water. Responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, is the one that has to have the state with Burgo's laugh, Mrs Vilán, and urgently make the final approval of the dredging of the river and the immediate bidding. You, Mrs Vilán, have repeatedly asked for your immediate termination, and in this House we call on the ministry to give final approval to the dredge of the Burgo River and to bid it immediately. How things changed! How things have changed for a year now! Now you almost forgot to demand that dredging. It seems that this dredging, this imperious necessity, that urgent need, no longer... No, he didn't, he didn't, he didn't. He mentioned Burgo's laugh and then came to talk about Vigo's laugh, but he didn't talk about it, nor did he demand such an important infrastructure. The dredging, for those who don't know it, is just part of a problem dragged over decades of undeclared spills. The first and most done by the Burgo River was the Galician Union, with an investment of more than a hundred million euros in the last fifteen years. Moreover, since 2011, the German Government and the municipalities of the area have brought forward a local sanitation plan of the Burgo River which had, among other objectives, to eliminate urban spills. And it has advanced, and much, from the municipalities. It's true that in the last few years it has grown less, these improvements have been curbed by the control of spills, and right now, even, let's read these days the news that there were more than two hundred spills without control in the Burgo and Betanzos creek. Now, ladies and gentlemen, what remains is that the Central Government maintains the commitment shown by the Executive of Mariano Rajoy, who left the dredging for 2018, the budget that you... I don't know what grace makes him. There's a budget approved by the House, by national Members, that you don't execute, a game that you eliminate in your 2019 budget proposal and that makes you laugh. That a complex dredging, for which it was necessary to speak to all the people concerned, who had to wait to have the possible resources, when they were finally budgeted, you are grateful that it is not executed and that, above all, they disappear from last year's budgets. That is the great work of the Socialist Party of Galicia for our land! That's the big job! [[Applause]] Your Honor, it may be a grace to you, none of us, it is more a betrayal to our land of your party. But look, as you didn't want to put it in the 2019 budgets, after you hadn't executed it in 2018, the Galician Board proposed that there be a change, a reallocation, of European funds, and it seemed - so they said at least at the meetings of the Ministry with the Union - that there was a commitment, but six months later we kept waiting, waiting for the Government of Spain to make this request to the European Union. And we'll keep waiting, because for now there was absolutely nothing, nothing at all. Santiago, Mrs Vilan, another example of irresponsibility. He doesn't have an emergency plan either, and what happened to the new Edar reflects perfectly the working form of the Power Tide. Building the new EDAR is a project that affected three administrations. Over the past three years, there have been meetings of all who have made commitments. But all of a sudden, the Council of the Tide breaks up with commitments, which causes delays to jeopardize a priority action.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u48	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u49	Let's hope that the Socialist Party, the Ministry of Central Government, will maintain its commitment to the EDAR of Care and not change its position.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u50	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u51	In Pontevedra — and already to finish, Mr Bará — I am very grateful that you speak of the Scenic band...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u52	Finish, please. It's over time, they have another intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u53	Yes, in the next intervention I'll talk about the great display of your irresponsibility. Yes, of you and of your party, of that band of the Scene that's been in the city of Pontevedra for years. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u54	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. Replication of the Infrastructure & Mobility Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u55	Thank you, President. The truth is, I haven't seen any constructive spirit, nor any will of understanding, is regrettable. And I'm sorry that in that water management matter I see things like the ones I'm seeing. Mr Bara spends 40% of his time talking about other things. It's how important it is. For water then you don't have time, of course, to talk about other things. Mr Bará too is right and the lamentable is that he did not understand anything that I said was very clear. He didn't understand anything, suspended for you. If you don't understand hydraulic and water cycle management infrastructures, the problem is for you and the suspension is for you. They lost a new opportunity to be responsible for water and to make serious proposals. [[Applause]] Mr Bará, the law of local regime bases is state base, don't come to me here by doing... interest in the Autonomous Community, of course it's of our interest to work together, but the law of local regime bases does not prevent it from you. He wants to skip the laws once more. The truth is that the 1,100 million euros, of course, are total contributions from the Galician Union, therefore, carry out more and listen. I can ask the Members of this bench to at least listen, listen to what I say and don't say things like, "I didn't say so," when I said so; so I ask, please, at least, you listen. Local water pact. Speaking together is a great step towards talking about the local water pact. We would like to move forward, and therefore I hope that in that local water pact, where we are willing, in the Members where you rule, the Socialist Party with the BNG, I think you will understand that in the local water pact you have to be the deputations, if not for what? The deputies will have to be, and here is the law of 2013, which further reinforces the commitment and obligation of the provincial deputies in this matter which I see as very important. Mrs Vilan, European funds must co-finance them with their own funds, it seems a lie you don't know! And Vigo's debugger has to cofinance it with our own funds, otherwise we haven't done anything. I think you've already said enough that you don't know that European funds have to cofinance them with your own funds. I'm sorry you don't even know that. He's talking about spills in Melide. We are working on the river Furelos in two directions; sanctioning when there are spills in the river, fulfilling the law, with the law in hand, of course yes. Now that it happens also in the Furelos River, the fault, as always, until it rains or does not rain, is from the advisor, who is true that he has his feet on the ground, is the only one with his feet on the ground here, seeing his interventions. Double-way: monitoring, inspecting and sanctioning, with the law in hand; and also making a project to allow industrial waste water spills to go to the debugger. But first we have to analyze it; we are not going to get dumped and connect dumps because yes, we have to analyze it. It's viable and therefore with the constructive project working; not only talking, working, because things get arranged working, not just preaching. Mr. Cal, weird of Vilagarcia. But do you not know that the Vilagarcia debugger is managing the Town Hall? You don't know that the Vilagarcia Town Hall -- of the Socialist Party, if I'm not mistaken, I hope I'm not wrong -- does it charge a clearance fee for managing the debugger properly? He's covering for the neighbors but he's not running the debugger, and he blames me. Please, first you know how to handle things. That's why my first intervention, which someone doesn't understand: how important it is to do them as they exploit them. They don't matter to you at all, but it's of the utmost importance to exploit things so that they work well. And in the matter of water, it's very important. You cannot expect the Galician Union to assume all the competences of all the hydraulic infrastructures, because the investments of the Union are not infinite. We multiply our efforts when we add to that pact where Members have to be, it's essential. Therefore, demagogic arguments. I think talking about water is something more serious. I don't think you've understood anything at all, it's regrettable, my first intervention. Autocompetition is not a common word in our vocabulary. In our Government, we will never be satisfied, we always have new goals, new challenges, to move forward and keep working. That's our obligation, and also, of course, in the matter of water. We have achieved a lot, of course, that we have achieved a lot already!, but we must continue to work with important challenges; extending them to sanitation and supply services; reaching further, with a new model of sanitation and supply in rural areas, of course, we must consider helping the municipalities of our rural areas, which have that dispersal which makes work very difficult, especially in smaller municipalities, by improving infrastructure management and lack of exploitation. We have to work together to make good use of the debuggers and exploit the network. As important is the network as the debugger, can't you understand that? It's not a political issue, it's a matter of common sense. And of course, working to prepare us in this new context. I think denying the qualitative leap is nothing productive on his part. And it's also a joint effort, of everyone: of the councils, of the General Administration of the State and of the Council of Galicia, because we all work together to make this great qualitative leap that none of you want to see and are made clear, and of course, with a very prominent role of the Board of Galicia and with an enormous effort of public investments, which are the money of all. By the way, compared to other autonomous communities, you know that we are the third autonomous community that has most invested in infrastructure, with these billion euros, behind Catalonia and Madrid only. So by working and making that most important leap, in what must continue to move forward, with important actions, helping the municipalities and being responsible. Responsible for actions we have done: 350 acts in sanitation helping 165 municipalities; 45 new debuggers, with this most important leap, to provide clearance service to 1.5 million inhabitants equivalent and to reach today to 3.3 million inhabitants equivalent; with these supplies. And it's not about being triumphalists, it's about informing about the path that has been reached and about the path that must continue to be done and worked. There it is in Vigo's creek the Lagares debugger. Of course, we co-financed that debugger with our own funds from the Galician Union, and the Union put more than eighty million euros in that debugger that cost two hundred, why should we deny it? We work together, which is how things are done. In Burgo's stream, 100 million euros that we invest in substantially improving the quality of Burgo's stream, and we're waiting for that dredging. The Arousa laugh, also with that local sanitation plan, if I named it in my first intervention, but because they don't listen and they don't know what I'm saying, they can't understand it. Also in Ferrol's creek, more than 100 million since 2009, and we'll be done sanitation in the Malata. The sanitation of Pontevedra's creek, of course. More than 40 million invested, where we are available to invest sixty million euros, which we have the money, and design the debugger in Praceres and that emissary. Mr Bará, in the Town Hall of Pontevedra, which you rule, neither do nor allow. It is the only great city that is unable to manage a debugger. They're going to Galicia's board so we can handle it because they're not able, they're not able. Are they capable? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do we send them the debugger and manage it well? Well, the debugger works well, and the emissary works very well. We do the delivery act at the moment you want. It's the only municipality that has problems for the Junta to invest in the river, and the truth is they have a municipal network with more than a hundred incidences, which has infiltrations of up to 40% water from the sea, but you collect a fee for the conservation of that network; they collect the neighbors over the network and do not preserve the network. Well, Mr Bará, what comes out of the debugger also comes through the network, so I think we must work together, of course yes. [[Applause]] Their priority, obstacles and perpetuating problems. We are going to perpetuate problems in order to always blame the Council of Galicia in a matter where there is co-responsibility, where we must cooperate together and where - of course we do - we want to help the municipalities, as we have helped them, in a responsibility that touches them, and that they are not given by the councilman or president of the board, nor by an autonomous law, nor by giving them the Law of bases of local state regime, and in which we have been working together for many years, and there are the data. The truth is, when it comes to acting on the ground, they hide their heads like the ostrich. Your technique, at the BNG, is the ostrich technique, because it corresponds to everything else, the measurements of the Board never come, they're not enough, they're not worth it, but you don't stop setting traps, and when you want to talk to yourself, when you propose solutions, look to the other side, see if you look to the other side we can't find each other. But you know, Mr Bará, that Brussels has endorsed the plans of the Board in the sanitation of Pontevedra, which is the best alternative, with that local sanitation plan. That's where we have the best alternative -- from Brussels -- the work we're doing. There's Moaña, which when there's rain, the net can't. In Moaña you rule, is it the fault of the Board too? The municipal competence of the networks, of the affected, is it also the fault of the Galician Union on the Moaña networks? Responsibility, seriousness, Mr Bará, and knowing the skills. In Bueu, in Bueu who manages the debugger, Mr. Bara? I've told you here several times, you should know: the BNG, the Town Hall. Well, don't turn on the disinfection system, the ultraviolet rays, Mr. Bará, so you can get the water out in quality. Tell him to turn it on! Of course, it's very expensive to burn and pay, but you have to manage the debuggers! It's so important to do infrastructures like keeping them, and there they should be you and supporting you. Light Up Empty the ultraviolet rays from the debugger that manage the BNG in the Bueu Town Hall. [[Applause]] In Poio, without a debugger, you're not looking for a plot. The blame will also be on the Galician Union! A work of general interest. I hope the state together with the Poio Town Hall will look for a plot, and there they will find us, working together, because we want to heal the laughs of truth and we are responsible for responsible use of water. EDAR of the Grove. If I'm not mistaken, rule the Socialist Party. He refuses to take over the holding. You have to blow up the debugger and you don't want to assume the exploitation. But charge a fee, charge a fee! That's unfortunate. There are kamikaze drivers, but there are also mayors with kamikaze behaviors. And do you want to teach me a lesson in stream sanitation, when they say: no, no, no, that debugger doesn't want to exploit it, being its competition, and you don't even want to go to the Grove Debugger Delivery Act? Please! We can talk about a lot of things, we can talk about sanitation in Ponteareas, where the Galician Union has already invested five million euros and we are waiting for the Government of the State to work together in the new debugger, waiting, of course, for the dredging of the Burgo River, which we've been waiting for months; also at the Monforte Council, they demand a debugger. We worked together with the state and proposed alternatives for the Monforte debugger. I hope to have the mayor of Monforte work together to get investments and co-finance that debugger in Monforte. And don't tell me about Santiago's debugger, which is one more example of the lack of management. This is no longer the ostrich technique, it's the technique of walking backwards instead of walking forward. We had a project, we had funding, we had environmental processing, and now we have no project, no funding, no environmental processing. Very nice! The truth is, that's how you want...! That's right. There are some who laugh, but I'm sorry. So how can we move together in the sanitation and management of the entire water cycle, if we don't understand what is explained, if we don't understand the competences, if we don't understand the need to talk and work together? So we can't go ahead! As always, as in everything, is what I see on the roads and what I see here in the matter of water. Do as I say, but don't do what I do. Those are the advice I always get. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I ask for responsibility. We must be aware of what Galicia needs, of that dispersal, of that added difficulty we have and that we must support the municipalities in their own skills with investments, with help, with counseling, and of course also exploiting the infrastructures with that advice that we have been making for a long time, that many municipalities appreciate and that we will continue to do, to help also in the exploitation of the actions. And we call for co-responsibility, of course, with the deputies. I hope that new MPs will be asked for that local water pact. That we talk about the management of the integral water cycle with the deputies, too, because it's very important. It's an intermediate administration and we all have to work together: councils, deputies and autonomous administration. I would also add to the state, that the Mino-Sil Hydrographic Confederation, for example, in Galicia has a lot to say and has a lot to support. We have to work together, too, because in Galicia there is the Min-Sil Hydrographic Confederation and also the Douro Confederation, for example, that will not deny me; co-responsibility for responsible use of water. And also about floods. You haven't named them -- I believe -- so I've heard, and I've tried to be careful, I haven't heard a great deal here about the flood, the flood. I've been waiting for the Deputation of the Crown for more than six months, to talk about the problem of the crowds of Muxia, Vimianzo and Camarinas. I'm still waiting, it's been six months. This is the e-mail sent to the Deputy of the Crown to speak together to help the Town Councils. So, what do you give me about flood issues, dry issues, climate change issues? And with respect to this Supply Guarantees Act, which I don't know what qualification you've been given, the truth is that it's irresponsible. We want to give an agile, correct, coordinate, give tools to help and facilitate the municipalities with these aid to emergency plans. Will the deputies be called upon to exercise their responsibility to help the municipalities to cooperate with them as well as to help them in the drought emergency plans? Don't you think it's important for us to have all the Greek municipalities drought emergency plans? Don't you think it's important? Don't you think it's important to act on net losses? I didn't hear anything. Do you think it's reasonable that we've lost up to 40% on the net? Do you think it's sustainable and efficient to have 40% network losses in Galicia? If you don't know the problems, it's not easy to fix them either. Easy is balloons out, deny everything. About the water supply in general, I insist that we invest in what we don't see, in which it doesn't shine from the sky. The municipalities collect a lot of fees, so we've invested what's said about water in water. We've seen it in water. Not in what shines, but in the matter of water, and so we'll all move forward together. Investing what is said about water, which is raising the municipalities a lot of millions of euros. You do the bill, you have to invest. Pontevedra I doubt you invest, because if the whole network is made up of foxes, where is the rate of debugging, the rate of sewerage and sanitation raised by the Town Hall of Pontevedra? Tell me where you're going. And that's how we could talk to other city councils. In Pontevedra there is the Brying Sanitation Plan, where we want to move forward; you're hampering. I told you about the support. The 40% of seawater entering the network of collectors at some points in Pontevedra I've already said so. In Burgo's laugh, BNG calls for political coherence. I pray for political coherence with those governments. To govern the PSOE, will you first be required to fund the Burgo River Dredge in those areas of the Coruña as a condition? Because they want to take the flag of the dredge of Burgo's creek. Prove it. I ask them to do so, to finally have the dredge of Burgo's creek. We put a solution in the silver tray; take it, please, for the dredge of the Burgo River. In any case, all criticisms would be more legitimate if they preached by example. Yeah, that's right, they'd have more legitimacy. I think that anyone can understand. Let's remember again the competences that local authorities have, the horrifying examples of bad management in the acronyms of their parties. We have bad examples of bad management in their parties. In the Socialist Party, in Vigo it is very much to invest in the supply rate, it's a reality, but it has an ETAP, a poser, obsolete. I would suggest that you guarantee quality, because it's not to be received that a refreshment in the 21st century, an encouragement that has up to 40 percent, a poser cannot treat that water. It's not receipt. Because in the rest of Spain, which are already used to water shortages, the potifiers don't have that. So I don't think it's receipt. You'll also give lessons to BNG, which in Pontevedra makes it difficult, locks up, collects rates for maintenance of the network that doesn't keep. In Poio he ignores doing a debugger, not looking for lands, looking for settlement...? Are you going to teach The Tides, unable to manage Ferrol's debugger, unable to bring Santiago's debugger forward, and that in four years they have done absolutely nothing to shield themselves from the risk of drought? So in those cities where large amounts of money are collected for supply and sanitation, I tell them to invest in solutions to improve supply and sanitation. We'll all win and walk towards responsible use of water. I think it's attitudes, those I've seen here, that they don't contribute to anything. I ask for seriousness, but above all, I ask you to listen, because I realize that they didn't even listen to me. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u56	Thank you, Counselor. Special round of clarifications. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u57	Counselor, this wasn't BNG's appearance, nor my appearance, it was his appearance, where you have to explain. And neither -- well, at least the hemicycle is getting hot -- it's the city hall's appearance, that was May 26th, and there you've missed out, the BNG is still ruling Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. [[Applause]] [[Protests.]] No mayor in the cities, that's the reality. And in other villages to see what happens. Yeah, that was the show. Mayors the next 15. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, you do your grandma's or grandpa's accounts, but reality is reality. [[Murmurs.]] The appearance was...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u58	Quiet. Let's wait till Saturday, man! Saturday you'll know everything. There's only a few days left. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u59	Here's the cockroach. I will not speak again about the powers because they are clear in the Water Law, which is the sectoral law of this matter. That's what he's talking about, in any case, about his incompetence, his inability to assume what the powers of the Galician Union are that are clear in law. You didn't tell me anything about planning. By the time the Greek Sanitation Plan, which must be done by the Board of Galicia, Counsellor, do you have to, and you haven't? About the laughing matter. The laughs are throwing a real SOS. There is a study by the University of Vigo that demonstrates the catastrophic state of the Arousa River. It speaks of contaminants, purified and unpurified waters; they see significant deficiencies in the sanitation network, marine mortality, loss of productivity, loss of employment associated with all this. It's a call for alarm, attention and emergency that can be extended to all rivers. That is why we propose to them something very specific: that we entrust the University of Vigo with a comprehensive study, an audit, on the state of the rivers; on all the problems of pollution and loss of productivity; also on the effects of climate change on the rivers; on the consequences of decisions taken in European bodies; and also to propose measures of integral regeneration of rivers. Do you agree to do so? Now they complain, we're sweating here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u60	This is hard... it's hot, now it's hot.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u61	Let's get together, then. Do you agree? Look, the dredging of the Burgo's creek had to have done you by the time you were in the State Government, and they didn't. Now they blame the new Government. And what did you guys do when you were ruling in the state? The same as Pontevedra, which has been around since 2011 and has not done so. You are the governor of Galician ports! And about Pontevedra's creek, Madam Counsellor -- something I know of this -- there are three debuggers in Pontevedra's creek, there are eleven in Arousa's, and there are ten in Vigo's; this data is eloquent. And the debugger that is in the Pleasures is a supramunicipal debugger that has been managing Galician Union since its construction, in the 1990s, it is therefore not responsible... it serves four municipalities: the Marín, the Pontevedra, the Poio, the Brilat, which is in Vilaboa, and the Pontecalelas, to the business polygon. What are you coming to tell me here? It is the responsibility of the Galician Union. They assume their responsibilities. It's his responsibility also to improve his functioning, because it works wrong; to have an emissary in condition. The Pontevedra Town Hall is an exemplary municipality in the matter of supply and sanitation, because with the new contract just passed, we will complete the entire municipality's sanitation network, with more than 25 million euros of investment; a separate network, by the way. It's an exemplary water supply network that also corrects losses, which are below 10%. So don't come here to teach us lessons, because the data is there. Less than 1% of the network is unitary, the rest is separate and completely renewed, because all the works that have been done in Pontevedra Town Hall in the last 20 years have had a priority: to improve the city below, where it is not seen, in the service networks. That was always a priority. Look, more duties: Local water pact. Don't blame the deputy. They announced it in 2013 and said it was going to be in a year. In 2017 we approved an agreement here. The environmental advisor, who is no longer here, also said he was a priority. They're doing their job. Third, general planning, for when do those yellow plans have to plan globally? Emergency plan against river pollution, water supply guarantee. Look, we agree that no council did. Mr. Trenor quoted here the councils of the other parties, but it is that no council, neither of the People's Party, has made these contingency plans for drought episodes. You have to do it, you have to jump for responsible use of water, and this is not just a sectoral matter of water matter. We have to save water, we have to improve efficiency, we have to raise awareness of population, we have to reuse resources, but it's a question of general environmental policy that has to do with industrial policy, it has to do with forest policy, it has to do with waste policy, it has to do with mobility, it's all about consumption and new water culture, and you're not doing your homework in this matter. We also have the question of the council on the sustainable use of water, which has a great deal to do with these issues. When will this council be created? Tell me here, you have the opportunity to clarify this question. Then, the one with the skills. They assume their competences and we propose to them a measure to expand these competences, which Galicia also assumes the competences of the mine-sil watershed, to have the ability to govern, manage and solve problems throughout our territory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u62	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u63	Thank you, President. Apart from proposing to improve something, please, air conditioning because we're going to die suffocated here, I'm going to propose that they put on a slate, bowl and those things, and every time one of the advisors comes up — in particular, the counselor — that explains us a little better with written graphics, because we see that we are very bad students and very bad students. The next time I'm also going to propose that, instead of showing up, if you call a masterful lesson from counsellors and advisors, to see if we learn something that we are in the opposition, because we don't know anything at all. But it often happens that when students and students fail, guilt, responsibility, it seems almost always to be the teacher or teacher, or the teacher or teacher, it almost always happens. Maybe the explanation wasn't convincing enough. Skills. Junta competes in the management of purification, except in the 300 kilometres of urban rivers, in the rest of the kilometres, which are much more; in the ecological flows, in the aquifers, in the management of the daily use of water, in awareness, in the water resources, in the flood plans, in the drought plans of those municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants, in the marine area, in the quality of water. All of this is the competence of the Galician Union, but you can see that those who do not assume their responsibility where they rule are the Town Councils, that's what you said. The job's huge. I repeat the data: 2009, 177 million euros invested in hydraulic infrastructure; 2019, 92. According to the General Account of the Board, of the Autonomous Community, of the years 2016 and 2017 — which is the last one we have — 107 million euros left you without running 79 and peaking 80 million euros. That's the huge investment. Also the new model of sanitation in rural areas, what did you mean? The Baltar mini-depurators, which I think are judicialized? That's the new model of rural sanitation, perhaps. You spoke of one hundred and forty-eight debuggers in thirty years, less than five debuggers a year; indeed, an ingenious work of the People's Party's Government. And then you talk about agile response. The Supply Guarantee Act will be an agile response. You've been on the pre-project since April 2018. Long live agility! You made us feel that we didn't have a constructive spirit. From here I spoke to you of a proposal for a Law of Hydrological Transition and that they include the marine area as a protected area in that bill of natural heritage that has just entered Parliament; and that you talk to the sea councillor so that the dredgings of the Pontevedra River are not taken to the island of Salvora. There are three things that are proposed in an absolutely constructive spirit, counselor. You came here, indeed, to criticize the irresponsibility of the municipalities. That's what he did. Ría do Burgo, Concello da Coruña, I think that five years ago he ruled a gentleman who was called Black, and I think he's from the People's Party. In 2013 a delegation of MEPs from the European Parliament's Environment Committee came and there were two meters of mud down in the Burgo River; so much so that a divers stayed there, and had to leave the suit there because they weren't able to pull it out —2013, we're not talking about thirty years ago—. Council of Poio, Mariano Rajoy left a gift to Mr. Telmo Martín with that statement of general interest for a part of the debugger of Ron, Samiira, Raxó and Sanxenxo, it was a commitment. Well, these days you're going to have news of that commitment by the central government. Santiago, I think five years ago... well, they ruled several, first a gentleman named Count Roa and then Agustín Hernández, who had just been the 25th Environmental Advisor. About Sanxenxo you said: how are we going to take industrial waste to the debuggers? For in Sanxenxo, curiously, Telmo Martín managed to take the industrial wastes of the Nantes polygon to an urban waste dump that is in May, and put them in a protected space that is The Pasales, that is their model. In Vigo the Lagares debugger has a name, and that name is Elena Espinosa; that's the name of the Lagares debugger in Vigo. In Ferrol I think five years ago I ruled a gentleman named José Manuel Rey. And in Pontevedra your solution is to sign an environmental pact with Ence so that the debugger of the Pleasures will arrange Ence with their money. Well fantastic!, the truth is, management is ingenious by your advisor, Counselor. You could come here and say that, despite having students and students very little advantage, you'd try to convince us, but without lying, without giving any data -- because you haven't given any real data, you haven't referred to budgets or the execution of budgets in hydraulic infrastructures -- that it's necessary for everyone's collaboration, and not solely responsible for councils, because you have competence. By the way, you shouldn't have them, you should have them by the Environment Advisor, to our understanding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u65	Thank you, President. It seems that climate change has also entered the Galician Parliament, which rises in temperature here. At least see if it's good for us all to raise awareness about this issue and all a little more, just when we're talking about it. And to see if this time I understood his intervention better; to pay attention, to pay attention, and also to the first. Mr. Trenor said at the beginning of his speech that we have wasted time in this House talking about the councils, but both Mr. Trenor and the Counsellor have spent practically their intervention talking about the councils. And as the previous spokespersons had already said, the drought emergency plans did not put them into action any council, absolutely none. Clearly, it's a structural problem, and we've lost time if we're here focusing on attacking the councils of the opposition benches that haven't made emergency plans when we know it's a structural problem, that no council has put in motion. So it's obvious that this formula doesn't work and that we have to intervene from the Galician Union, and don't come here wasting time attacking the opposition councils. We could be doing the same with the People's Party now, but it's ridiculous because none of us have it; so let's not do it and look for solutions to that problem. We'd also like you to set examples of Town Councils of the People's Party who are doing a fantastic management of supply and sanitation. Give me examples of Town Councils of the People's Party. It's a structural problem in Galicia; most municipalities, practically all of the municipalities, have sanitation problems and have supply problems. That is why we say that the Galician Union should be very directly involved in this issue and should establish a framework for collaboration with the municipalities to solve this problem. Because it's not a problem of municipalities of one color or another, it's a structural problem where the Galician Union has to have a greater involvement. And, of course, he has competences, of course he has competences, and he has to do it and he's not doing it. If the problem is in most Galician municipalities, it's a structural problem in Galicia, and the Galician Union has to act, stop coming here to attack some municipalities or others and put solutions, because it's a very serious and very serious problem. It's a very serious and very serious problem. I'm already being constructive, Counselor. [[Pronunciation of words not perceived.]] Get to work and act! And they're looking for frameworks of collaboration with the municipalities because we're facing a very serious problem. What have they done since the previous alarm? I asked him at the first intervention. After the first alarm there was more than a year and a half ago with supplies in Vigo, and also with the drought problems in Ourense, what did they do during this year and a half so we don't find ourselves in the same situation again if we find ourselves in the same climate context? What did they do? Go out now, in your reply, and tell me what they did so we wouldn't meet this situation again. What about Ribeira, Counselor? What about the EDAR of Ribeira? Come here and say why three years after investing more than twenty-two million in a new work it's still not working properly. It's not delivered yet, it's still not working properly! Come here and explain that fantastic management that you're doing, which also put investments in the Arousa River as an example. He hasn't told us about the mud they want to install in Salvora and the consequences that can have with the currents entering the stream. Tell us about that too, Counselor, for he set as an example the Arousa's laugh. Put on a solution. And, man!, what you say about the EDAR of Vilagarcia, which is a municipal competition, well, it's shameful that you say so. The Town Hall has been waiting for more than ten years for the collaboration of the Galician Council to put a solution because it needs a high investment, and you know, don't come here to hold the county responsible. What are they doing to solve that problem? And stop throwing balloons out, which is the only thing he does with these issues. You have jurisdiction over the matter, the Town Hall needs a framework of collaboration, and they're waiting for the Galician Union to put its batteries on. In the first intervention it didn't give me time to finish, because I wanted to talk to you about some other issues that you didn't talk about and that I find very important. I'm going to be constructive and I'm going to put some issues on the table that we think are fundamental to addressing the problem we have with water supply, with the fall of this resource, because we have less and less available resources to ensure the right of access to water in quality conditions, which has to do with the consumption of certain sectors. I'd like to know if you've planned to do something or plan to act in front of industries that have a very high consumption of water resources and are having low costs on their payment. Let's put the example of Ence. He consumes more than the whole city of Pontevedra but pays for the water a ridiculous price. It seems to us that it makes no sense in the current context, in which there is a shortage of water. Because there are industries that earn tens of miles of euro per year and are outsourcing the cost in water consumption that they're not paying. Do you think we should act on this issue? You think water should be charged to these industries, which get great benefits. are they consuming high amounts of water and paying less than any citizen? I'd like you to talk about this in your reply because I believe that in this context we have to act; it is urgent that you act on this issue. What about invasive species, which are consuming very high amounts of water? The eucalyptus and the acacia consume the water double and the water covers reduce the twice in the areas where they are. Do you think you're acting on this issue? Because we see Ence drying out Galicia again. Have you thought of acting in front of the eucalyptus and the acacia, which are consuming high amounts of water resources? And since they don't give me any more time, I leave those two questions on the table -- the invasive industries and plants that are consuming high amounts of water. Have you thought about doing something? And Mrs Vilan was right, of course, this had to be in the Environmental Council because that's where these issues should be dealt with, not in Infrastructure. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u66	Thank you, Mr. Cal. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, we all seem to agree on the importance of our waters, but our commitment is realized and reflected in the budgets and in their case there is a lot of speech. Not only do they not make the slightest investment effort, they put all obstacles and traps wherever they can. I, after this exercise of yours, don't know why you want to rule if you're unable to prioritize. Even you, Mr Bará, were talking to me here about a report that defined the situations of such catastrophic places. But then what do their governments do? If it is so catastrophic, if it is so imperative to act, if it is so urgent, if you are so conscious of that need, what do you do in the deputation? what do you do in the council? Nothing, nothing! But it's just that, in addition, you're making a recognition that you know that situation. I don't know, come here with arguments that let it hurt itself; but, well, there you are! Mrs. Vilan, can I tell you what the People's Party has done in the Coruña? More than a hundred million euros of investment in the stream, which allows us to have a laugh that doesn't contaminate any more; a laugh that now clears everything you have to debug. In addition, we defended and approved the connection of Meirama and Cecebre -- I don't know if you wake up -- a connection when the lake of Meirama was being filled. And we did it with the opposition of En Marea and the opposition of the Nationalist Block, which said that the Coruña water was going to be poisoned, that there would be cadmium, that there would be arsenic in that water. Five years later, where were those complaints left? Five years later, and after a four-year-old government in Marea, there was nothing in those allegations. That's what happens to the reports that make the opposition, to the alarms that generate the opposition, which then, when they govern, do not change the facts, but do change the complaints or change the alarms. We also defended a plan for the renewal of all pipelines, precisely so there wouldn't be any filtrations in them. What we realized when we were in the government was that there was more water to debug than was consumed, with which there had to be filtrations of the water from the sea within the pipes themselves, so a plan was made for that. And there was also a plan -- Mr. Prado is not here right now, but I know that he led him -- of disposal of spills; plan that was carried out in most of his part with the previous municipal government and some of the projects that were approved and that were also budgeted executed by the tide. What did you do? What did the Socialist Party do? Nothing at all. It's more, when there was finally an undertaking to execute budgets for dredging, which is the last part left... I don't know if it's clear. Sanitation is done, made it to Galician Union. The government has done so, so has the Council of Galicia, and the municipal government. And there's a part left pending, but the most important thing has been done. And what's left behind, the Government of the State. And I told him. The government of the state was budgeted in 2018, they didn't execute it, that match disappeared in 2019 and now we don't know what's going to happen, because even commitments to reallocation funds aren't fulfilled either. And that's what makes you laugh. Look, Mr Bará, mentioned in Pontevedra, is the greatest example of irresponsibility. The Council of Pontevedra, in which you have been ruling for many years, does not stop boycotting the investments of the Galician Union in its creek; it does not allow others to invest to correct the deficiencies that are their responsibility. In addition - as the advisor reminded you well - Pontevedra is the only great city in Galicia that does not manage the purification of its waters. There's no greater recognition of incompetence than refusing to assume management responsibility. Too bad we're others to do the work that the Galician Nationalist Block doesn't do! And as the advisor reminded you well, more than forty million euros have been invested in sanitation and we are looking forward to investing another sixty million euros, which will allow, among other actions, to improve EDAR of Pleasures. And on election results, a scrupulous election result, Mr Bará, when one draws less than half of the votes that another party makes should be very, very prudent. You in a commission have already recognized me that it is not the same thing to rule with seven conchlers than to rule with sweet. And you told me, precisely, because when you took out the sweets you were very proud and considered yourself too legitimized to defend everything they proposed, and I thought that the opposition, which I had seven concelers, was not legitimized to think about what was going on in Pontevedra, because that's their concept of democracy. But you know what's going on? That you recognized me that yes, that you were more legitimized to rule when I was sweet than when I was seven. [[Applause]] Then apply the account and apply the same argument to the rest of the municipalities. It congratulates those who win the election and acknowledges that at least when you don't have the majority, when citizens don't support it, at least there's a lack of legitimacy, Mr Bará. In Vigo and Junta he invested 80 million euros in the EDAR of the Lagares. The investment was 200 million, the biggest investment in a hydraulic work in our community. What does the Socialist Party do in the water issue? First, hide the debug problems of the couple's debugger, which is unable to debug the water in the cared for by Eras when it reaches 40%.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u68	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u69	And I want to remind you -- because you were in this Parliament and I too, when we suffered that drought -- what was each one's role. While you were bringing to this House initiatives to harden the protocols, so that it would act against the drought, so that the Galician Union would fix all those drought problems, we had a mayor of what you assume and consider that simply because it wins the elections...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u70	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u71	...it seems that everything is already justified, even if it hurts. Also apply that argument to this House. Apply it, see what the consequence and the conclusion you draw. And I remind you that, when the alert was declared here, there was a mayor who said he wasn't going to keep it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u72	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u73	I remember him saying that he had water left, that he had water left, even...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u74	Thank you, Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u75	...to give to the other municipalities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u76	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Trenor, your time is up. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Mr. Trenor López utters words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Trenor López utters words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, your time is up. [[Applause]] Close the show. Director of Infrastructure and Mobility.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u77	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in my speech, my intention was to transfer information from this Parliament and from the groups that make it up to it and from the prospects of work that must be done to move forward in the challenges that we have in the future: to ensure and preserve our most valuable resource, which is water, in order to advance responsible use, in which all efforts are few and in which we must be working together, in order to prepare ourselves for this new context that we already have of climate change. In any case, rather than doing a recompilatory, I also want to answer some questions. Mr. Bará says that the debugger of Praceres is supramunicipal and that that's why, directly, the Union of Galicia has to. You have to... I don't know if you know the territorial reality of all Galicia. The Pontevedra is limited. The debugger of the Coruña is supramunicipal, the spills of Oleiros, of Cambre, of Artexo, of Culleredo. And who's managing it? Therefore, being a supra-municipal debugger does not imply that Galician Union is responsible for its maintenance directly. I don't think he knows the territorial reality we have in Galicia and he's confined to a specific question. And I say again, as important is the debugger as the net itself. I believe that the Pontevedra network, from Pontevedra Town Hall, infiltrates up to 40% of the sea's water supply. And I even tell you more, whole streams, and that's nothing efficient. I don't say it, tell him the technical reports and the cameras that get into the drives, who knows what can be done. What do you want me to tell you? As important is the debugger as the network, and here we have examples of the management of sub-municipal debuggers in other municipalities, so don't mix rocks with merines. Mrs. Vilan, you must not listen, I said and I say the Town Councils... I understand you must not listen. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't know, I mean. I said that the municipalities have difficulties, that they have difficulties and that we have to help. And it has to help the deputation as well. I hope that also the MP shares with me that it has to help in that important and fundamental task as you say, that I also share. I hope so. Thank you very much. I hope and thank you that yes, that the deputations, even that of Pontevedra. I appreciate that covenant and let me have my hand to get the deputies into this. [[Applause]] It's essential, in order to definitely fix all this, that the Members... I also thank them for that pact where the Members are, which is fundamental. He put here the example of the teacher and the teacher. I think what you want to understand. And let me tell you that you said things that I didn't say but that I did. So, I think I have an obligation to say... maybe he didn't hear me well, but he said things I didn't say yes. We're not going into that question here, it's a minor matter what I said or what I stopped saying. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In any case, I tell you that the minister, his minister for the Ecological Transition, in all his interventions, when he starts... I invite you to listen to them. [[Murmurs.]] His minister for the Ecological Transition begins by talking about the competences of the municipalities in supply, sanitation and purification. So don't come here as always, for me, but for others, it's not worth it. In any case, I come here to talk about the work done, the work we have ahead, to work together, to support the municipalities in a difficult task in which they have difficulties, especially the smaller ones, because of that dispersion we have, that singularity of Galicia, that dispersion of Greece, which makes us different, but which makes us difficult to execute, and also to exploit infrastructures. In one hour it's very complicated to talk about this whole subject in all the details, but it's a task that we all have ahead of us to work together. I appreciate that pact where the deputies are working together to work with deputies and join the councils to help them, because that's what we have to do. It is a challenge that we have ahead of us that joint responsibility for responsible use of water. Challenges - as I said - that they are difficult with our territorial singularity. We've made a lot of progress, I think we can't figure out what we've been doing in our community. There's a huge amount of invested resources, a lot of actions, and we've made a huge leap with these 3.3 million inhabitants already connected to a purification system. You don't care about him, but in Europe it matters, and we care about him. Of course, we need to connect to a debugging system, because that, of course, helps to improve the quality of the water. All the investments made in the Burgo River, all the results, which we see there, which improved the quality of the waters of C to B. I hope the Government of Madrid is involved in the dredging. In the Arousa River we have invested and continue to move forward. Ribeira's debugger, Mr. Cal. In Ribeira debugger, the problem was not from the debugger, it was a network problem. That's why we have to talk together: networks, collectors and pumping systems. It was a network problem and it's healed. For your peace of mind, you know you're cured. Local sanitation plans. What is the development of a sanitation plan? A sanitation plan is a large scale, the large scale. There's the hydrological plans. Local sanitation plans are the detailed scale that allows diagnosis and performance development. There's that of the Burgo River, that of the Arousa River, Girl, Cee, Ares and Betanzos in the rivers, but also in other places like Lalin, etc. It's tracking and controlling the city halls, advising them and helping them exploit the debuggers in perfect conditions. Also the dumping control plan, which allowed us to eliminate more than five hundred spills in the rivers of Galicia. Therefore, it is undeniable the effort of sanitation in the Welsh rivers, which has taken a very important leap and that further progress has to be made. We have to keep moving, but we've made a very important leap... They don't like it, but it's really important. I'll give you the chart. If you don't see it, I'll give you the graph. Give Mr Bará the graph to see the giant jump, because it happens to him like me, which doesn't look good from far. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We will continue to improve the provision of services as we have already done. We have already complied with the sanitation directives up to 90%, improving the quality of the water. We have increased in ten points the improvement of water quality, but we want to continue to make progress in this area with many actions that we have in progress, planned and planned. To run, you have to schedule. Has anyone commented what it means to be programmed or planned? Well, the usual, start with the beginning. You have to schedule and program to be able to run. And in those challenges we have for climate change, two major challenges: floods and drought. That's why we have the flood risk management plan. We have defined these flood risk areas and are developing plans with concrete action. And we have to do it from the city councils because we're talking about actions that also require civil protection measures and urban measures, and we have to do it from the city councils. River cleaning and maintenance campaigns, with this guide to improve the conservation of our rivers in interurban truces and urban truces. I hope I can also do so in conjunction with the Mine-Sil Hydrographic Confederation, to have the same criteria in this matter. The decree to facilitate minor works in the water police zone, which we have given many facilities to those people who want to perform within 100 meters on the banks of the rivers. And working -- as I said -- in that responsible management, in those guarantees of supply to the water population in quality and quantity, and, of course, also to work for an agile and more coordinated response, not only by making investments, but by doing this planning work as the Dry Plan, to have savings patterns, to limit priority use and ensure supply. The law of security of supply, which I consider really important, is an instrument of aid to the municipalities. I hope they came with good eyes those aids from the Dry Plan, which was our initiative. Of course, we want the municipalities in the Galician Union to have drought plans, so we approve that order of aid to implement the drought plans. And we want Members to also help develop those plans, because if they help, we'll all win. Therefore, with those constructive approaches, such as that of Ms. Patricia Vilán, for the Members to join this covenant, which I sincerely thank, is how we should work. Equipped with your own planning like those drought plans. And the technical and economic support to the municipalities in their competences, which we are doing, which we have done and we want to continue to do because it is necessary, because we want to help them, by assisting them in the execution of the works, by assisting them in the maintenance of these actions, by facilitating with new tools the assistance to the exercise of their competences, with economic aid such as the Emergency Plan for droughts. By helping them improve the supply network, to avoid network losses and to obtain European funds together for these sustainable actions, what is more sustainable than avoiding network losses in droughts as we saw in 2017? So I think that's the roadmap I wanted to move: work together, work together, for sanitation, supplies, floods and droughts. It is everyone's responsibility, because we are talking about responsible use of water, and of course it requires everyone's responsibility. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u78	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the session until 16 o'clock, four o'clock.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u79	Good afternoon. We resume the session with the fourth item on the agenda, in this case, of motions. G.P. motion. of In Marea, at the initiative of Da Flora Miranda Pena, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the implementation of a new plan for the primary care of the public health system
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u80	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion, you have the floor to Mrs Miranda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. Until the time I took that seat, I trained and exercised as a primary care physician, nineteen years, to see that the best thing that can happen to people in this country from a health point of view is to have a solvent team of primary professionals. I have no doubt: few heritages bring so much value to the public, few services have so much ability to address inequalities, to identify needs and to locate social and health resources more suitable for each person's needs. A health system that prays must consider primary care the central care level, not the entrance gate, the center of quality public care, because it is accessible, because it is efficient, because it is equitable, continuous, long-term and implanted in the territory and, above all, because it has decisive capacity when it is allowed to work well, when it is allowed to work well. But here the per capita expenditure in primary school is 175 euros, compared to the 914 hospital. A good health system must also have full regard for its professionals, with working dignity. It is hypocritical to think that abused professionals can exercise good care. We found ourselves on a run ahead of the Health Council, with a plan that didn't address the needs of primary care. That's why we brought this motion again, that's why it's because a strike is called up for the next day 19. Unanimous assemblies—unanimous!— of professionals asked for strike in primary. We need a new model, we need to consider the new profiles of demand, comorbidity, chronicity, aging, bureaucracy, fragmentation of assistance. We need to review the staffing of professionals and roles, and we need to reconsider, for example, the role of nurses in the management of chronicity. For that, you have to start by providing 25% of the budget in the shortest possible time, excluding pharmaceutical expenditure, without delay. Countries with primary solvents have decent health systems, and we're about 11% to 13% of the budget. We started wrong. Primary management structures need to be recovered. It looks like a little lady of so much repetition, but it's just that she hasn't just assumed. They don't want subjugated addresses. I've got to get rid of EOXI, because I'm an alibi for mercantillization of health, for hospitalocentrism. The hospital is more expensive and more sensitive to the health business, and primary is cheaper and more efficient. There's a lot more room at the hospital to do business with the pharmacy, with technology, and with drifts to the concert. And look! because with so much demolition of the public, 15% of the Galicians and the Greeks already have private insurance. Maybe that's what it's all about. Not to us, of course. We must establish maximum quotas, around a thousand and fifty patients per team, of course individualizing and stratifying. Ianus, our electronic clinical history system, doesn't calibrate well. We need to better measure social and economic data. What we did in the clinic one day is we know that it is much more complex to care for a patient with social vulnerability than for a patient with severe heart disease, for example. Patients should be limited per day, for example to twenty-five cited. Invalid argument to generate waiting lists. Of course they're generated, but the solution is not saturate, it's dignify, it's equipping professionals with enough primary care. That's the only solution to keep no waiting lists. What about the patients who come out of the agenda every day? So we have to make a choice, with decent protocols for the general service staff that is at the door and in the displays, with management and courage, because the PP is selling that the system is accessible. Of course, but the only price is paying for the professionals, forcing their schedules and finishing their days late. Primary time is gold in diagnostics and treatments, it is necessary to give each patient the time you need, not less than ten minutes in demand. The Catalans were able to have twelve minutes for each patient. The less time the primary has to see patients with quality, the more interventionist is the system. We need time to make good medical stories and good explorations, to ask for less evidence or for better orientals. The primary needs the same catalog of evidence as the hospital, without bureaucracy, and without people feeling that they have to do a marathon to justify every test they ask for. It is necessary to avoid eventuality by professionals, but also by patients, because continuity in treatment is an element of great health value, and it has to be preserved with health policies. It does not serve the continuity contract — the precariouss know well. Of the hundred MIRs that just ended a few days ago, only twelve were admitted to this contract. You have to stop improvising with the replacement system. And we have to offer all the vacancies in opposition. Professionals are only loyal when they're treated well. There's a lack of transparency, you don't know the vacancies, you don't know the retirement plan or the contingency plan for your coverage. The training plan for more specialists is late. They've been cut down before, and now they don't have. That's not an excuse, it's a serious irresponsibility. Let's talk about the CAP. They have to stop stealing their time and wages. Please apply a correct date and pay them the plugins they owe them. No longer serves the crisis as an alibi. This weekend, at the Parda's CAP, in Marín and Caldas, they worked under the minimum, they worked with a poor doctor. They're being authentically irresponsible in professional management at the continuing attention points. Continuing quality training, no smoke from the pharmaceutical industry, in working hours or computing hours. Sergas is very pleased that the professionals are trained in their spare time, of course, because they are responsible, and then the surveys come out, with a tremendously good rating, not thanks to Sergas, but thanks to the professionals. We have to get out of the consultations, we have to take community attention, we have to know how people live, how we care for, how we educate for health, how we promote the autonomy of sick people, how we avoid unnecessary frequencies. And here it's clear that nurses and assistants, TCAEs, who amortized health centers and were important to manage the materials. Teamwork is communication between professionals, and if they want heads of service, they're consensual and merit-based. The digital system does not work well for consensus. We need to generalize social workers and psychologists in primary schools, to manage social suffering, vulnerability, addictions, avoiding unnecessary medicalization, because a very important part of the problems that come to primary care is solved without drugs. Yesterday he even published a newspaper of Welsh roll as bad as we're doing things with alcoholism. We don't have enough resources to treat a pathology that is tremendously prevalent in our population. The same with physiotherapy. It's vital to ensure the functional recovery of people, in desirable times, close to their homes, and avoiding hopes that they can condition their prognosis, because it's useless to apply the Ictus Code when we then have a person with a pair waiting for six months to be rehabilitated. We have to evaluate the resources that need home care, because it's an exclusive value of primary care, as well as palliatives and dignified death. Iona Heath needs to be read; if they don't know her, I recommend her book "Help to die." You can approach the palliatives at home, but not after attending forty people in a consultation. We have to recover the normalization of death in the homes of older people, because we cannot have the services of collapsed emergencies, full of 90-year-olds naturally exhausting their lives in emergency boxes. We must avoid the income of people with limited natural life prognosis that they want to stay at home. We're losing the north, we're losing dignity in the death of our elders, our older people. We need to review equity in the distribution of resources, because we have very unequal quotas, and we need to speed up the hospital response; no preferential consultation should be left unanswered in fifteen days. We also need to remove non-structural waiting lists, because we can't tolerate sending people to the counter and telling them: we'll call her. Maximum transparency and less alibi to derive people from the concert. We don't want laws that guarantee business for private people; guarantees laws, for people. Let's talk about teaching and research. The counsellor was talking about increasing residents. [[Murmurs.]] Look, I've been a resident tutor, I've been a MIR tutor, and I'm aware that better conditions are needed, both for them and for the people who make them. The promotion that ends in Vigo these days wanted to use it to assume guards as they were held before the end of their training period. They're not worried about excellence, they're worried about solving the paper. We do care about the quality of primary. I don't want to let the need to talk about the prospect of gender, we have to incorporate it into the training of professionals, because we still owe equal treatment to women in this country, and if they don't believe it, they read about the gender gap or remember that thirty-nine men killed women this year. Since primary school you should also work there. I don't know if I have any more time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u82	It's over. He's got another shift later. Look at the clock.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u83	Okay, okay.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u84	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u85	Good afternoon. When we talk about the dramatic situation of primary care, when we talk about the deterioration that has experienced in recent years primary care, which leads professionals and the Greeks and Greeks to go out into the streets and demand that the road map be changed, because they're losing the quality of care, we're not talking about theoretical situations, but about a constant and permanent reality that lives every day. Monday, May 20th, of four family doctors who had to be at the Arzua Health Center, there was only one at eight in the morning, and it was not because it was a problem survived, a last-minute question, but since Thursday before they knew that two professionals would be missing and they did nothing to avoid the situation, that there had to be four there only one. As has just been said here, press headlines this weekend: the emergency services of Pontevedra County suffer a weekend to the limit. The lack of staff leaves the CAP with two, one and even no doctor. At the Parda, waiting for more than two hours, they put posters on which they warned of the situation. The faculty fear what may happen when the summer comes. At Parda, a doctor less to attend to them, under the minimum services. Continuing to provide health care under the minimum services, those minimum services which, when professionals call strikes, it turns out that they impose on Joine and that they are always more than those who are paying attention every day. But this happened in the district of Pontevedra, but it also happened in Marín, Caldas or Baltar. In the three CAPs, only one doctor worked, and when he has to leave for an emergency, as we all know, they are left unattended by the people coming in there. This situation is continuous and permanent. We can add the situation of pediatrics to this. We can talk about Zas, far from solving the problem, because it's getting worse. We can talk about that in Cambados, a year ago, there were four pediatricians and today there are one, because one retired and didn't cover, the other offered him a square in Poio because he didn't have, and how he got better because he went to Poio; with which we continued discounting, and where there were four now there is one. And how do you supplement yourself? Well, a few days in the morning, a family doctor's going in half a day to answer the priority issues. What about the rest of the time? Well, find your life! That's the solution that gives people in need of health care. And we could talk about Gondomar, we can talk about Mondariz, we can still list here what the situation is. They're not timely cases, they're summaries and they follow that it's not solved. What's being demanded for primary care, for the last time? What do the professionals demand? Budget. And the BNG brought here a law for budget allocation this year 2019 and the People's Party votes against. Ability to plan, i.e., primary care recovers its own management so they can have their budget, their decision-making capacity, not to be sidelined about hospital care. Nor is the People's Party responding to this demand. More personal; the immediate call for all the structural squares that are covered in a precarious situation is called for; it is not paying attention, of course, beyond any action, to this question, the People's Party: to end the precariousness of work. Today, there was a new one that came from these contracts for such fantastic family doctors because of the hundreds offered there are only twelve professionals who met that demand. What do they say? That between the greatest precariousness or the precariousness that it is, they already have what it is. Yeah, yeah, they say that, they say that! [[Murmurs.]] And the solution to the CAP problem? Well, none of these issues, of course, are being addressed by the People's Party's Union since then in the speed and fundamental issues that are taken into account. Because if we go to the proposals that are on the table, we can talk about 21 million for materials, for computer issues, which are not the priority issues that are being demanded. With which we today are going to vote in favour of this government plan that presents in Marea, a very extensive motion that contemplates many actions. Some of us would, of course, have nuances. But in any case, what you want to put here on the table is that there are lots of primary care problems that are unsolved and that, of course, the way the People's Party is going is not going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u87	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Given the hours, it's good to be able to debate an initiative and do it with passion; the will and dedication of the proponent in this one is noted. I don't know if the government plan, at least an election program, because it's true that it's extensive and passion is also noticed in the extension of the proposal. It would be interesting to have complete debates on the whole question, but, well, for a matter of operationality, it's also difficult to get into the bottom of a motion that is so broad, and, as always happens, the more we cover because we leave the more untouched. Because, as the NBG spokesperson also said, it is difficult to get into some issues. We share the perspective and will support the motion and understand it as a declaration of intentions. From our point of view, there are some inaccuracies and -- you're going to expose everything -- we're missing things; each one pulls to his own. By setting an example, I miss things about mental health — something else — and even about mental health sickness. This seems to be fashionable now, but in the second Republic it was already defended by Luis Valenciano Gayá, who was a well-known psychiatrist; the voice of the Euro MP was Valencian. We will support this initiative as a declaration of intent. We share this perspective. For us, the essential issue that actually predominates on this situation and on others, as we normally defend, is the problem of staff in the health system. There is a staff problem in the health system, we have an insufficient number of staff, and we have a human resources policy on which they are — especially those who are not disabled, because there is not enough exploitative — a fairly precarious model of work, in terms of insufficiency. We are presenting an initiative, which we will debate tomorrow — like many others we have been discussing regularly — with the intention that some of these information should be given and that the President will usually be able to explain to us where they come from. Because when one intends to evaluate with objective data the situation of the public Greek health system staff, it is found that there are many public statements from managers, but real data provided with documents, none. You know, you're still constantly talking here about a thousand other five hundred professionals now that you've been a year or ten years ago, but in budgets you're not and you're not paid; so if you're not paid, or you're either working on your own will or someone is telling you that there's no professionals. Where are the data? That's what we were asked. Where are the data? The real ones, not the ones who have the counseling, who say you have, that obviously it's not possible to check them because it doesn't give them and then it's very easy to say here what there is. As the president said the other day, 88% of nursing stability. Impossible! But you can say 88 as you can say 10 or 97; total, it doesn't provide any data. And it is a question of precariousness, which is not what the Socialist Party says — let us say it normally — or what the professional groups say — that is what they usually say. No, no. It's about what the judges say. It is Sergas who has made judgments against because of problems clearly of being — let us say — twisting the legality to exploit and exploit the workers, to see if we can understand it: concatenation of contracts that are occupying structural squares but concaterating eventually, problems of judicial resolutions that require professional compensation for saturation at work. They're dripping constantly, and more will be! When this started in the trial, many of us warned that we had a problem in the face of inefficiency in management, in addition to the problem that the Administration is supposed to be facing such fines. But it has been argued in this Parliament that this would never affect Sergas, that that problem did not exist. Systematic: every xe time begins to appear complaints, and now it's quite wide enough. Where are the explanations? No data, no explanations either. The only thing there is is a fantastic world in which someone says there are many more workers who pay the most, who are more stable and that the health system is better than ever, but, apart from those statements, no one else supports it. There are problems in the CAP. The professionals are still demanding things, which, indeed, if each one of us could make a personal review of what they are demanding, we would be surprised not only to be granted, but to have to be today demanding these conditions. Professionals of the health centers that resign and those who attack, optionals who are reporting excessive workloads, the TCAE protesting, nurses and nurses, and advice as anyone hears rain: nothing happens, all this is very good, we have the best health in the world and in Galicia we are at the best time in the world. It wasn't even worth saying that we're good, that the situation is good; no, at the very best of the world, because, by the way, we do things, we make them great. Well, see if we're at a time when situations allow us all to reflect on things and be able to reach some agreements and recognize each other's positions. Since we recognize each other's positions — because this Parliament is doing little in recent times, but it is always a good time to do so — perhaps we are able to reach some agreement. Because the truth is, until now, a lot of pride, a lot of statements, little data and little answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u88	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u89	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Mr. Torrado, there has been a committee of inquiry into the state of health in which these data were presented and the reports have been submitted, and you have gone away, you will tell me why. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Miranda, you bring today the full motion with thirty-five points — which are more, because at those points of numbering even more proposals are hidden. It seems difficult — and I agree with the spokespersons who preceded me — to respond in such a limited time. We're both primary medical professionals and we know what's going on, uh, we know perfectly well, we know first-hand the evasives and the problems of primary care. I always listen carefully to your interventions in relation to primary care, which are emphatic, always with a certain poetic point. And the truth is, I share a lot of the things you say, some things you don't, or the solutions you propose, either. But yes, with respect to your motion, I also share many of the points you say, points that are in the process of solving with the Primary Care Plan and the technical council that has been created, advice that will meet this very week. From his intervention today, I was surprised by the statement about the death of older people in an emergency or about the emergency with older people, who know that I share with you as well. It is a bit of a shock to the demagogy that has been done in this Parliament with a series of false allegations from the Santiago hospital that have been treated here in a different way. And look, you also know that the fundamental problems of primary care in Galicia are two: the shortage of professionals and the ageing and chronicity of the population. The president himself of Agamfef, of the Galaga Association of Family and Community Medicine, signed a letter in a newspaper, with the rest of the board of directors of that association, and expressed this text in the first paragraph; in addition, in this letter he said that there was no payroll and full employment situation, which meant that there was no coverage of absences generated by permission and temporary disability. And in this context of professional deficit you demand quotas of a thousand two hundred and fifty TIS per optional, limit to thirty or twenty-four — depending on how you look, or twenty-five — the number of patients per day or a minimum of ten minutes. Could you tell me how you would manage this hypothetical situation that they demand and how far the waiting lists would reach primary care if all these proposals were met? Look, years ago, a professional came to my health center, who was in addition to being a primary care directive, and he did exactly that which you say, i.e., he limited the number of sick people per day. And you know what happened? Well, look, the waiting lists grew in weeks, that the patients usually went to the CAP and that they all left the coupon for the quotas of the other partners. That was the solution at a time when it was relatively easier to cover the absences than today. I don't know if you want that to happen, I don't know. Look, Mrs. Miranda, let's be serious. These solutions are not currently viable in Galicia or the rest of the state with the number of family doctors currently available. And that subject, like others, will be discussed at that meeting of the technical council. With regard to one of the points that says, 25% of the budget, excluding spending on primary care pharmacy. It seems excessive, it is difficult to apply right now. I don't know why they exclude primary pharmaceutical spending, you didn't explain it. Primary management and own budgeting are covered by the Primary Care Plan, which was agreed with numerous collectives, associations and professional schools. Supplementary tests and primary-hospital relationship. Progress is also being made, with measures included in the plan. Creation of new structural squares or the offer of all vacant and recent retirement squares. You know you're limited by the central government's replacement rate. You can help derogate the said replenishment rate, you can help. Look, you've signed some 2019 budgets with the Socialist Party where it doesn't appear to withdraw the health replacement rate; if it appears for local corporations and if it appears for universities, but not for public health. Primary choice, TRIAP. It's also considered in the plan. Incorporation of other professional categories. In the street calls and in the plan itself. Home care and palliative primary care. Indeed, that is the future of attention to chronicity, and I have no doubt that I share that you will have to enable means and professionals to extend it, but today you know that you are not viable. In short, Mrs. Miranda, there is a primary care plan that is being developed in Galicia, which has been pioneering in action and measures along with the Basque Country; by the way, that "happy Arcadia" of Spanish health that next day 17 has called a strike of all primary care groups, on the 17th of this month; it is not Galicia alone. The Primary Care Technical Council will meet this same week and are taking short-term action in most of the points of its motion. Of the eighty-seven family doctors, of the thousand who finished this year—remated, president—, seventy-eight were left to work in Galicia, five more were incorporated, eighty-three; of the nineteen pediatricians, fourteen were left, two were incorporated, sixteen. It seems that working conditions aren't so bad, according to those figures. Look, Mrs. Miranda, we're not going to support your motion because we think the solutions to primary care problems are well geared to the plan and the technical council. And the measures of the first and the persons who make up the second deserve a period of lack or a time of courtesy to allow their work to be valued and the effectiveness of the proposals of the plan. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u90	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Author group of the motion, Mrs. Miranda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u91	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank the support of BNG and PSdG. I share with Mr. Torrado who, precisely, would need more mental health professionals, mental health nurses, of course. They are absolutely necessary to dignify attention to chronic mental illness. I share it, and I could incorporate it into those 36 points. I'm sorry I was unable to synthesize, because, in fact, passion takes me and I'm not able to rule out any of these 36 points. Mr. Centeno, I love you bringing here the president of the Galician Association of Family and Community Medicine, because he was precisely a visible and respected professional who rose from the last meeting of his technical council, in which they are looking for solutions to primary care. Of course, this respectable professional doesn't share his solutions. I've had to tell them something before. They don't let themselves be led by classism and xenophobia. Because in our country, people who are excluded from the right to health still live. They use proactive measures for their detection, they talk to entities that care for health in the fourth world, and they don't leave anyone without health care, because we still have people, entire sources, in health exclusion. They talk to the workers, to all the workers, remember the 19th strike. They're talking loud and clear: they didn't serve those working groups. And I'm telling you, some professionals have abandoned those groups. You didn't serve that improvised plan, you don't need to select who you want to talk to. There's no need for a technical committee that advances one millimeter a month. I've been reading your calls for this Thursday. They're having fun, and people aren't stupid, they've been exposed. The primary will stop, strike, and you'll have to listen differently. Listen to the professionals, they're telling them they want means, they want dignity, they want less saturated schedules, they want less precarious management structures themselves, they want time to care for people, they want time to care for people. They want the satisfaction of the job well done, they don't want humiliation. They want to solve health problems because they know how to do it. It's very sad that an administration works as a barrier for its professionals, who are responsible, to do their job as they know how to do it. And this happens when you pay attention to the interests that aren't exactly those of sick people. Check them out. They develop a good plan, a plan that takes care of people, with vision of the future, with the weight of primary, with human resources, focused on people, with good attention that doesn't care about prevention or promotion and that keeps looking at the community. But we already know Mr. Almuña's arguments. The other day he was portrayed. His commitment, his commitment to public health, his public health, is to make politics in the consultation. The other day it was very fancy, caramba! I have a crystal clear conscience, gentlemen. Just as those who must clarify their conflicts of interest are you. The private sits on that bench, not the other one. Make politics, PP gentlemen, but make politics for people, not for their own. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Miranda. Motion vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u93	We are voting on this motion. Close the doors, please. G.P.'s motion to vote. of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Flora Maria Miranda Pena, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the implementation of a new plan for the primary care of the public health system. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 28; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u94	This vote concludes. Open the doors, please. We continue with point 5 of the agenda, non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de In Marea, at the initiative of Mr. Antón Sánchez García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece regarding the request for authorization of the copper mining project in the Town Councils of Touro and Pino, the pollution produced by the former mine and the company's failure to restore and regenerate
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u95	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u96	Mr Sánchez has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u97	Good afternoon. A week ago we met the Ombudsman's report, Mr. Marugán, on the Touro mine, before a complaint by a private person. What this report once again expressed is the relationship or the report of the same tics, the same modus operandi, of the Government of Greece during the last few years in mining policy: poor inspectoral and sanctioning action, i.e. tolerance with the contamination of certain companies; facilities for these companies in administrative proceedings — including failure to comply with legislation —; socialization of impacts — we pay all the losses committed by companies — or the absence of planning and conciliation with landscape, environmental and natural values. He makes a thorough report, the Ombudsman, which includes the absence of an approved and/or updated restoration plan for mining, which makes it difficult to control restoration work, to the point where public funds are used to fix what the company should have done. It says textually: "The Economic Council refers to some recovery actions by the owner of the holding, although it is unclear whether they have implemented the only approved restoration plan or within the framework of the agreement signed by the three administrations, which assume from the public budget the decontamination work that should have been suffered by those who have generated the pollution." And that's what we've been defending for a long time since En Marea. It is a serious matter which, in addition, is the consequence of inaction for years and years. It also alerts the Ombudsman of a poor performance in inspection and sanctions over the past ten years. Only five of them were inspected. In two it was favorable but with too brief information, according to the Ombudsman. He denounces that for a period of six years there was no plan of work — although this is already a very pre-priority period, from 1988 to 1993 — nor has it been sanctioned or sanctioned. He says that the reopening project should not be treated as a simple modification of the operation project, but as a modification of the concession. And he even talks about the report issued by the Galician Waters on February 7th, which shows that the environmental impact study presented by the company does not have sufficient or detailed information — a report submitted on February 7th, two years after the proceedings of the reopening project began. It is a narrative that also speaks, for example, of the environmental outcome produced in the closure of the mine in 1988, and speaks of the statement itself by the Galician Waters that qualifies the state of the aquifers of the merciless mine environment. And it is evident what we all knew: that the drainage project that the company now intends to do, what is in progress, is the recognition that for many years, the races Felisa, Portapego and Argumil were being contaminated by spills from the old mine. And all these examples or similar to those that pass with Touro pass in San Fins, pass on to Santa Comba, pass on to Monte Neme or pass on to many of the places where there are mining farms and where the Galician Union does not do its work of monitoring and enforcing the law, of carrying out its inspection and sanctioning powers. It also denounces a very serious matter of substance to the Ombudsman, very serious and general: the absence of a sectoral plan of extractive activities of Galicia, which is the highest planning instrument of Law 3/2008, of Galicia mining. It says textually: "According to Law 3/2008, the plan of extractive activities, after a strategic assessment, is the instrument through which the mining sector must be ordered in the autonomous community, ensuring the sustainability of use; that is, its compatibility with environmental protection, its compliance with territorial management and land use, and the weighting of the various interests that compete in the economic and social development of the territory. The Greek law defines the Extractive Activity Plan as the maximum instrument of mining planning, which is equivalent to affirming its preceptive character for the achievement of the targets set. Article 5 of the Act thus indicates that it is up to the competent body in the field of mines to promote and plan mining activity in Galicia by developing the Sectoral Plan of Extractive Activities in Galicia. Although, in accordance with this precept, the competence to plan is exercised through the above-mentioned Sectoral Plan of Extractive Activities, its approval has not yet been carried out despite its extraordinary importance, although its processing began in 2013. The Administration did not explain the reasons for the extraordinary delay or indicate its current state of processing. In any event, the third final provision of the Galician Mining Management Act ordered its approval within one year of the law's entry into force." That is, the instrument that has to guarantee the planning of the development of mining activity so that it is compatible with economic development, with the protection of environmental, landscape or cultural values, the highest mining planning instrument, in 2019 remains unapproved by the Government of Greece, one more reason to ask for and request political responsibilities for officials of the mining policies of the People's Party over the past few years, one more reason for Mr. Tahoces to resign, one more reason for the Economic Counsellor to give her an explanation, something we have denounced in recent years too. I mean, the People's Party doesn't want to approve this planning instrument because it prefers to continue with the current state of things, which is the free bar and discretion with these activities. Well, abounding in the theory that the Ombudsman defends in his report, of tolerance with pollution and the non-exercise of the powers of sanctions and inspectors by the Council, in our initiative we also describe the results of the analyses provided by the Galician Waters and which made the Adega collective public, in which high levels of pollution are evidenced, due to mining activity, by acid drainages and also the presence of heavy metals. I mean, this is no accident, it's the result of years and years without doing what the Galician Union should do, which is simply to enforce the legality of the companies that acted there and make these companies, the same as doing an economic activity of exploiting natural resources, by leaving that in an optimal state so that no pollution will occur. You've tolerated this contamination, you've tolerated companies that have gone after the end of economic activity without correctly restoring the results of their economic exploitation. And now we have to be paying the consequences both in the state of the aquifers and also with public money to try to fix that mess. And, therefore, in conclusion, and because of all the above, what we've seen to reiterate once again is our request that once and for all we give a folder to the reopening project of the Touro mine. By the way, the Ombudsman also says that the formulation of the environmental impact declaration was formally initiated in October, and, as I said here, Article 33 of Law 21/2013, of environmental assessment, sets a four-month period to formulate that environmental impact declaration and make the technical analysis. And we're still asking something that neither the People's Party nor the councillor replied: if the Galician Union authorized the company to suspend the proceeding for four months, as the company requested on February 21, 2019. We hope that they will answer to such a specific question today, and I think we have the right to know about it and citizenship. So we are asking for a kit for a mine reopening project that would further aggravate the situation in the area, which would pose a huge danger to the future of the zone, which is not sustainable, which is not compatible with other economic activities which are however sustainable. And we also call for political responsibilities for the continued passiveness of the autonomous administration for years and years in the face of this kind of practice. These kinds of practices — since they come here to defend you, the fines in the mining sector — are the worst enemy of the future for the mining sector, the lack of credibility that the Galician Union has in demonstrating that the current legality is met. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u98	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u99	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Sánchez, the truth is that you took a third change from Adega to the Ombudsman, who, at last, must also talk about the Ombudsman's report, even though his initiative was talking about those reports of Galician Waters provided by Adega. I want to start by saying what we socialists say whenever we debate on this issue, or on matters related to mining in Galicia. And it's just that, at last, we're not prepared to do a general cause against mining. I absolutely agree with his last sentence of intervention, that the greatest enemy in the mining sector in Galicia is, without a doubt, the lack of control by the political powers of Autonomy of the negative environmental effects that can have that activity, and leave it for years in a limbo that ends up creating, indeed, a social consciousness or a perception beyond the actual data; but a negative perception generally that embraces the whole population. And this, without a doubt, is so. I am satisfied that you ask that the Galician Mining Management Act, Law 3/2008, be complied with, because it shows that it wasn't so bad. To the extent that I was a rapporteur, I feel particularly proud. I also ask you to buy the whole, to buy the whole. And I would ask, of course, that if we consider the parliamentary groups, or some parliamentary group, which is likely to improve — that it is, as any human work, and the Greek legislators are still far from deity — we ask for such changes. And, in fact, I'm always saying that there are three lines of action. By the way, some amendments that had been tabled by the Socialist Group itself at that time and that were then negotiated and negotiated were in this line; some were incorporated into the legislative text and others were not incorporated. He said fundamental questions are three. The first is to shield that environmental protection. And from here on, indeed, environmentalists have different approaches many times, more conservationist approaches or less, but, in any case, that is a line of law modification that we can legitimately propose. The Socialist Group in the previous debate on the Touro mine proposed it as an amendment. This time we go back to the essence of our 24 points, but we understand it's a course of action. The second is to demand the best available technology. And indeed, the technological level, technology, because it is moving fast and obviously. And, therefore, it is necessary to demand that mining companies always adopt, and therefore incorporate into their operating cost plans, those limit or technological frontier technologies. Are they certainly more expensive? Yes. So does it mean some less sophisticated mining technologies would be profitable and they're not? You too. But I repeat again: environmental protection and the use of the best available technologies would be two of the fundamental pillars. And the last is what, unfortunately, neither remotely or in a very lax way was contemplated in the old mining laws — and I want to remember, in addition, the pride that Galicia had been the first autonomous community in having a mining law of its own in the year 2008 — which is the subject of financial responsibility. And, in fact, here too, it is necessary to shield everything that has to do with insurance and everything that has to do with all kinds of deposits or property that blink — as you might say in some way — in terms of unwanted effects. Because there certainly is no zero risk in this or any other activity. And, therefore, on that side, without any doubt, the Socialist Group will be. Indeed, the Ombudsman says everything you say, it's true. But it also says that there is an objective environmental problem in that old mine of Touro-O Pino abandoned in 1986 — that is, we are talking about more than thirty years, thirty-five years, of abandonment — but that this new exploitation, to the new project, because it would undoubtedly be none of the things that should be demanded of you in any case. Because the problem is that I know that, in the ideal world, between reality and desire, it should probably be the old mine exploiters who assumed the cost of environmental restoration. But unfortunately, I'm afraid we all know it won't be like that. And so it's going to end up demanding public funds for this to happen. You know perfectly well the case of Portman in Murcia and you know that kind of black well of millions of public euros that assumes that regeneration on the land of no one—made by Peñarroya, of course, not—made almost by no one, because unfortunately, in addition, Portman's bay remains unregenerate. And of course, Junta has a lot to do. It has to make the sectoral plan, without any doubt; on the other hand, it has to comply with its own strategic plan by 2020, in which it speaks of the recovery of contaminated areas — and from now on the Touro-O Pino area —. It's true that they have little money in budgets, or that they have little money. And it is true, in addition, that the budget executions — and here there are no multi-annualities, I say by putting the sale before the wound — are really very low. So does Junta have to keep a lot of the law of 2008? No doubt about it. Our amendment goes on to say that everyone, the Union, private economic agents, all of them, abide by that law, which is a law of all. And, of course, in your initiative — in that we, in case we do not accept the amendment, abstain from it — of course, we could agree with the second point, with a greater realization. Because what does it mean to debug political responsibilities? It's true that there's an environmental problem there, that nobody denies it, and no one can deny it by seeing the situation that happens. But what's true is that the two points of his initiative are moving in absolutely different planes, one talks about the past and the other talks about the hypothetical future. We believe it is convenient to focus on the Galician Mining Act of 2008. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u100	Thank you. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u101	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. At this point, the project to reopen the Touro mine is more than seen for judgment. Few themes have raised so much controversy in recent times, few matters have been dissected and analyzed so thoroughly, and the matter is no less. The megaproject bull mine has given, gives and will give it to talk. One, because the footprint left on the Earth code in 1986 has dimensions never seen in our country. Another, because the environmental impact and repeated pollution have unknown proportions. And more so, because the disillusionment and the conviction of public authorities with environmental criminal practices and the repeated violations of the law would cause the colors to rise to the face of anyone if there were political shame, which there is no such thing. Because the substitution for a sustainable economy in time and harmonic with the natural environment is possible — if the powers put the necessary effort — that substitution for a destructive activity of the environment, robbery in the economic and highly dangerous in the future, so that we are no longer threatened by us and the future inhabitants of the entire Ulla basin, from Touro to the Arousa River, a solemn barbarity in social, economic and political. What is in question is the little formality shown so far by the megaminary of open sky projected in Touro. The claims of justifying aggression such as that which is intended to be promised an initial restoration in a space that has served and serves as a warehouse of all kinds of uncontrolled waste and waste — that has been, is and will be a source of continuous water pollution if the Administration continues to do away with its functions — are not to be trusted, gentlemen of the People's Party. They are — let's put — permitted with the interests of friends in their embraces. That's why we distrust the fire. Because the river veins Brandelos, Lañas, Ulla and the humble Portapego, or the river of Felisa or the rafts of Argumil, Bama or Vieiro, are there to assess the health of their waters. Because the measurements made over the last ten years are clear and reveal a abandonment of functions by the Government of Galicia, which has left the crows free to do their holy will. You, who always talk about walking with the law in hand, will already explain to us why, because the analytics made sing, and sing undefined. They leave to the discovery of practices of delitive abandonment of government functions, functions of free trade control for the interests of business friends, electoral interests that violate the most basic democratic principles, that's all they remind us, with their practices, in each electoral process. Because the rubble covered by a cloak of this shameful invention called "technosoles," and which constantly leached death for those river veins mentioned above, are there, in their entire polluting greenery, and they have been without the administration saying anything. Analyticals made with alarming results and you, impassable him tomorrow, knowing that these waters of these river courses are and are going to be increasingly vital to the populations that are bathing, knowing that at the bottom of them, at the end of their independent life, when they are unified in the same pursuit, is that virgin, that source of wealth, called the Arousa River. But that doesn't go into the balance because it weighs more business, friends, and the possibilities for participation and permanence in control and command. Because the millions of tons of acid steriles with heavy metals confined to the 126-hectare megabalsa, with that 80-meter wall up there at the top of the Ulla cup challenging the human cord, are a disincentive that we cannot all see. We stand where we stand in this conflict, no one in his judgment who has political responsibility can, in normal use of his faculties, support this desatin, that death mortgage threatening the future of thousands of human beings and of the natural balance of life, about which we have no right to decide. And we are not worth reasoning about the needs of raw materials, that industrial society needs these minerals to avoid breaking. Because the breeding has a trick. There is no question of the need for mining, which no one disputes. What is at stake is methods and costs. The methods, by expeditionives, by aggressives and by squilemmers and wealth negators; the costs, by mortgages, by destruction, by the sustainable economy that annul per perpetual centuryum, and by which they leave as a perennial gift in the form of continuous contamination of aquifers and sources of social wealth—we put on a case by case the Arousa stream. And from the megabalsa I won't come back on her. Finally, since the BNG we do not agree or agree with the policy of our resources in tangible economic and social counterpart. We will not agree with the destruction of sustainable economic activities and will not allow environmental aggressions that endanger the future of the Greeks and the Greeks. That is why we will support this En Marea GNP, in the dual sense of denying the authorization of the mining project and in the clearance of responsibilities in the — say, — irregularities agreed, and in many common cases, by the successive governments of the People's Party. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u102	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. White Paradelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u103	Good afternoon, gentlemen. Thank you, President. Before I started, I wanted to greet the Touro mine workers who came to attend each of these debates. I would like to greet them and also say, with all due respect and all affection, that we also defend your jobs, as we defend those of all the collectives of Galicia. We're not selective, as other groups can be. We are, of course, very concerned about a mining sector that directly depends on 5,000 families in Galicia. So you're also counting on our backup. [[Applause]] Mr. Losada, I understand that you have opened up Mr. Sánchez's intervention, because, although none of the previous speakers have said so, we are debating an initiative that was registered in June 2018; therefore, any excuse is good to speak again about the Touro mine. This would be chapter 43 of the Touro mine series, a series that, after its initial success, has gradually been losing audience -- there is no more to see how the guest gallery is doing -- and, yes, there seems to be only one producer interested in maintaining that series, which is Mr. Sánchez, who must be recognized that he does not abuse any news or current issue to show his opposition to the mining. And the truth also, Mr. Sánchez, I have to tell you — and don't bother — but it even seems to have a certain political obsession. It's just, listening to him, he must have real nightmares. One day you must dream of Mr. Tahoces and another day of the Touro mine. Mr. Sánchez, two elections were held a few weeks ago, which you wanted to convert into a sort of referendum on whether you were or not mining, specifically in the Town Councils of Touro and Pino, which gave some very clear results. It turns out that the parties that carried as a flag the frontal opposition to the mine lost the elections. And the People's Party, which wants the law to be respected, that they go through and value projects that may be of interest to the local economy and to create jobs, they've won with an absolute majority. But I can also tell you that, in the European elections, in which you also had a presence with your Member of Parliament -- also known as opposition to vaccines, and it was also there to campaign -- in Touro, In Marea was the fourth political force, with 5.4% votes, and We can be the fifth political force. And in Pino, Podemos was the fifth political force, and In Marea was the sixth political force, with the support of 1.2% of votes. If we had done what you do, which were the people representing the common people, and using their arguments, seeing who represents who and the result of these elections in the municipalities, we could say that the debate is closed around the mine. But no. And you know why I won't? Because it's not about this. Ladies and gentlemen, authorizations and business licenses... Man, I've been with respect listening, eh! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u104	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u105	I hope you reward me. The authorizations and business licenses of any business project do not depend nor can they depend on whether we like them or not, whether people are in favour or against, or, if they do, not even what they vote for. It depends solely on complying with the law, the Mining Law, of the Bipartite, which allowed 100 permits of exploitation. Because those 100 permits were all good, Mr. Rivas, they were all good. And the 43 operating licenses they granted were all good. I like to see left-wing groups now defy the law. The other day Mrs. Presas I told Mrs. Presas that I was excited at the commission as she defended the Coltana mine project in Viana. As nationalism governs there, it turns out now that the law is good; but the bad ones are we because we are not able to apply it properly. For what we have to do is continue to comply with the law, respect the administrative process on equal terms, and attend to the reports of technicians, done by the public workers, who perform their work in freedom and professionalism. And that — I have to tell you, Mr Sánchez — despite the ongoing pressure you are exerting on public workers, because they are continually pressing so that they can't make their reports freely. By the way, Mr. Sánchez, are they also made in Touro and Pino? Because if from a people who vote as a first force the Socialist Party — Stantiago — you say that it is a deposit of human remains in disintegration, what would you call those who vote the PP? Ah! yes, it is true, they already have the name: slaves who vote the master, the lord, the caccian, the one who commands, the ones of the time; people alienated and ignorant. And then, Mr. Sanchez, they're surprised to be thrown out of town halls. If they haven't stopped insulting the Greeks during this entire term, they haven't stopped! [[Applause]] Mr. Sánchez, our position with regard to the project of reopening the Touro mine remains the same, which we have been keeping from day one, neither in favour nor against: ordinary and absolute and strict processing and compliance with environmental legislation, as we shall do with the report made by the Ombudsman of the People's Republic. I suppose you should leave it to the Council of Galicia to defend yourself and present your arguments. You say "free bar," giving the feeling that here everyone does what they want. Well, if for you it's a free bar that since January 2018 Galician Waters has been penalizing this company for 80,000 euros for unauthorized greens, it's a strange free bar! It is appropriate, of course, Mr Sánchez, not to mix or attempt to confuse the people with whom the activity has been carried out until 1986, when there was no need for restoration plans, and the current activity of the production of arids and the new project that has been presented for the exploitation of copper which is under processing. By the way, with the latest reports issued, the Board has already stated that the project was not viable. And it was pointed out that it was necessary to make changes to continue with the processing, as it is being done. But not because it's no extraordinary favor, but because they have a right, because that's what the law allows. Before I finish, Mr. Sánchez, I insist again: we have already put forward a non-law proposal by which we ask that this analysis of this study be done, from the total guarantees and rigour in execution, and that it also ensure the performance of the work. You voted against. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u106	Thank you, Mr. Blanco Paradello. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u107	Very little enthusiastic about the applause of the People's Party for his intervention, Mr. Blanco Paradelo. Something's going on there! [[Laughter]] Well, I'm starting by answering a couple of things to Mr. Losada. In the ideal world, Mr. Losada, in the ideal world, Atalaya Mining comes here to solve our environmental problems and then pays for the restoration of space when it goes away. That's the ideal world. In the real world you already know what happens: as always, they stay with the resources, they do business in very few years and then they leave without restoring what they have done, as it generally happens and unfortunately. And we have to pay all and all of their losses, because, if not, it wouldn't be business for them, it wouldn't be business. It's the business model of this kind of company. Of course it is. You must comply with the law. So I know it's an obligation, isn't it? It requires that the People's Party is not being observed. He's not complying with the law. The impact of official agencies on mining policy has already been accumulated: the judgement of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia for denying information to the vicinity of Corcoesto; the admission of a complaint in the UN for the impedance of access to information to citizenship; the indictment of Bernardo Tahoces, the Director General of Energy and Mines, for the alleged crime of environmental prevarication; the report of the former Ombudsman for the situation in relation to the praisers of Valdeorras; the report of the Valedor do Pobo for the environmental situation of the former Touro mine; and the report of the Ombudsman. And by the way, Mr. Blanco Paradelo, you'll talk about strict compliance with the law, but you can see what all these organisms say, which are not Marxists-Leninists or Bolivarians, right? Free bar. Home!, you in 2018 started sanctioning files because people have been reporting in 2017 and 2016 hard for you to move. But what the Ombudsman says is that in five of the preceding ten years it has not even been inspected; and in two of them the information presented is not sufficient to determine the seriousness of the situation. The only restoration plan in force on this farm is 1984, from River Tinto Minera, for iron pyrite. Yes, sir, the only vigilante is that, and the Ombudsman says so. You say it's an obsession. Of course, to me his corruption is an obsession. And for me it is very serious the situation and the politics that you have come to maintain, allowing, allowing and conviving the contamination of companies like this, both you and the Touro Council, yes, sir. [[Applause]] And that's corruption. And of course I'm worried and it's an obsession, yes, sir. And I'll keep bringing this because this is the example of what I don't want for my country. Mayors, advisors and CEO of Energy and Mines who sit down to eat with entrepreneurs so they don't follow the law. I don't want that, and that's what you've been doing in the last thirty years. So if you had complied with the law, Touro's situation wouldn't have been what it is. You've been tolerant and convivient. And we will thus reach the assumption of political responsibilities, Mr Losada; the assumption of political responsibilities for everything that has happened here. Those responsible for these policies, those who are the protagonists of the Ombudsman's report, cannot continue to run the Galician mining policies any more. "Cheerful of the law," said Mr. Blanco Paradelo. If in 2009 there had to be a sectoral plan of extractive activities, according to the Galician Mining Act 3/2008, and we're in 2019 and you didn't approve it! What are they? Are you incompetent? Are they incompetent, Mr. Blanco Paradelo, and that's why you didn't approve a sectoral plan of extractive activities? Or do you prefer this situation so that you can do your business with these companies? Which one of the two reasons?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u108	Finish, please. About the PSOE amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u109	The amendment of the Socialist Party, as we do not believe in that ideal world, because we do not accept it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u110	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr Francisco Casal Vidal, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece and the demand to be made to the Ministry of Industry and Tourism in relation to the situation in which the company Isowat Made, of the Invertaresa group, is located
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u111	There are amendments to the Parliamentary Group on Tide, a self-amendment, amendments to the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Wales and the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u112	To formulate the non-law proposition, Mr. Casal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u113	Good afternoon. Isowat — and that's why we had to make the self-amendment, because the situation has changed in the last few days — can and must be saved, and Galicia cannot afford another industrial closure. The industrial production index — we have seen it published in all media — is in Galicia. Even though some sectors stand, others, the most sensitive, the most decisive for the future of the rest of the industry, are on the brink of precipice. Alcoa is on the edge of the cliff. We had the bad news last week about the closure of Poligal, which we hope will not be definitive and that Junta will look for a new investor for this strategic company in the special plastics sector. Ferroatlantic follows with the ERTE in force and with the uncertainty of this sale process we hope you will have all the guarantees in case you take forward. And before that, the statements of the Industry Advisor last week were, "We're looking forward to it." Well the truth is, the expectation is very black, and if it doesn't act decisively and with all the strength of a government, we don't know where the industrial production index will end around summer. We had to delete two points from our proposal. The first one was the one who asked for the segregation of Isowat and Made, who were a single company. We were considering segregation because the most technological company, with greater market presence, with more possibilities for the future, was Isowat. Then it seemed that the company thirsting for Agrela's polygon, in the Coruña, was the easiest, most feasible to get forward without any problem. Well, the reality was backwards, Made, a company with a very lower technological level, which is mainly devoted — in a normal way — to welding irons, is already saved. And Isowat still hangs on one side. The Autonomous Government of Castile and León intervened in a very decisive way to look for an investor. And Galicia's business is already there, too, and it can be given an immediate solution. In addition to the intervention of the Autonomous Government, there was a very strong intervention by Mrs Maroto's Minister of Industry. Let's hope we don't have to go back to saying "Maroto, not motorcycle sales," as many of Galicia's industrial workers are saying. And he intervened because he's from there. Turns out Made's in Medina del Campo. She's from there and intervened with great strength to find a solution. Well, we demand — and that is point 1 of our proposal — that the Minister of Industry, Mrs Maroto, also think a little bit about Galicia, and that she has the same implication to save Isowat than to save Made, as you have already done. Then there was also another point in the initiative that urged the Galician Board to look for the investor. The investor is already there. Now what we have to do is put in place a development of the negotiation of the creditors' contest to make it feasible to lift it immediately. And then the Galician Union has a lot to do. The company has contracts at the door, with fully developed engineering. They just need to be given the starting point so they can get to work and do jobs for Iberdrola, for Endesa reviews, for wind farms. It's a fundamental company for the development of the energy transition in Galicia, and we can't allow it only for a riot, for the few facilities that a bank — Bank — is putting on the mortgage it has on land and ships, preventing this factory from going forward. In addition, let us be disturbed at this moment by the Abanca strategy, because if the contest ends and there is liquidation, Abanca will lose much more than what it would achieve by reaching an agreement now; not to the agreement it intends, which is to collect the full amount of the mortgage, which is 6.8 million euros. Besides, 6.8 million euros that I'm sure have already been provided within the 8,000 million euros that all citizens of Galicia and the rest of Spain have put to save Abanca. That money we already paid you the citizenship of Galicia and the rest of Spain. So that can't be the problem so Isowat can't go ahead. And we think the Galician Union has a lot to do. We can't believe that the president of the Galician board, who always has an agenda, always has time to take pictures when there are successes — in many of them he has little intervention, but it seems good that he is going to take pictures, he won't take pictures of Isowat as well. Let him take pictures with the president of Abanca, with that Venezuelan group that bought Banca practically gifted after he received 8,000 million euros from all the Greeks, and that he demands that there be a solution to this; and, above all, that one cannot act with suicidal greed. Because — I say — what the investor is willing to pay is much more than Abanca could recover in case of liquidation. That's why urgent action is essential. Customers won't wait all their lives; especially those of the wind farms, because they have to finish the facilities at the end of this year. It is true that the installation that Isowat could do — the former Isolux — is the last part — the processing centers, the controls... — because they do not intervene in the entire initial part of the civil work and the installation of the mills. I mean, we're on time, but there's not much time left. So, the truth is we're looking forward to that picture of Mr. Feijóo, and we're going to applaud her, reigning the installations of a new Isowat with a new investor who buys money, who is willing to put money in advance of this facility. And besides, that it was really because it was decisively involved in the solution of the matter. And a government can't say that it can't facilitate, that it can't negotiate with a financial entity. What do you mean? Above all, with an entity there, which is making hundreds of millions of euros thanks to the 8,000 million euros that we Greeks put in to save it. Please, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, let us agree to get this proposal forward. We are willing to negotiate some of the terms of the four points that are kept in the proposal. And, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, please talk to Mrs. Maroto and we don't have to say again, in the case of Isowat, "Maroto, you don't sell us by motorcycle." Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Casal. We want to greet at this time the students of the 4th ESO of the College of Christ Rey, of Ferrol, who are accompanying us and who are entering the plenary room. And we give the floor to Mr Rivas Cruz, by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u115	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. Ladies and gentlemen, we are once again debating a section of the process of dismantling this country's industry. I say "country", because you will recognize that this country, said Galicia, is being dismantled impunity; impunity because the authorities, the executive powers, who have power over this phenomenon, are missing. Part of the problem, the default inaction or action, is that neither PP nor PSOE contemplate this disaster from the country's position. For them, autonomy is an accident; and the fabric of this failed development, the continuity of Galicia's industrial activity, they don't care. Does Coruña run out of another industry? Well, we set up another mall and holy pastures! We are condemned to be a country of service, with all the meanings that they want to look for the palate. When an industry becomes obsolete and only provides losses because its activity has no market and no closure, it has something reasonable. But when an industry is systematically polished, looted by buyers who leave it in sixty and few workers of the 200 that it has come to have, when the necessary investments are not made in modernization and put to good use, when public help was received to make purchases and investments that have been derived for other purposes, when public authorities have not exercised against the use and abuse of these aids, something fails, gentlemen. Something fails when the contest administrator in his report concludes that the creditor contest is due to a systematic looting of the Isowat company in the last ten years by the financial — which is not an entrepreneur — that bears its management and property. And something fails when there are no mechanisms that prevent or alert these looting situations, especially when there is public money in the middle. Since the BNG we demand that the Government of the People's Party take letters in the matter and take them in favour of the workers and the Welsh industry. In Castela-León, the bank has reached an agreement with the buyer of Made, they don't tell us that the PP Board, which has so much facilitated the ballast to Abanca, does not have enough — let's say — complicity to mediate and press to unblock the situation. It's hours, and so you have to remind Abanca to position and facilitate the operation, save Isowat and his industrial activity. It's hours for Abanca to return the boilers from what led us to the popular party in the government. It won't be too much to ask, oh! Because a government's job is not to blame the first one that comes forward. The work of a government is to defend the interests of the country that governs. You know, PP ladies, which country is ruling or is not clear yet? Within this morbid secrecy about the identity of the prospective buyer, it seems to be an industrial investor of Spanish capital who knows that Isowat is viable. Let's remember you have important requests pending from Naturgy, Iberdrola or Navantia. Because Isowat — if they are not aware — operates in a key sector so that certain specializations of Galician production have a return to the country in the form of companies with high value added manufacturing and quality employment generators: shipbuilding and electricity generation — especially wind. Yes, the saying: that the Government of the Union should put all the meat on the roaster — and that is the meaning of our amendment — is to mediate as appropriate for the purchase operation to take place. And they end up at once with the uncertainty of a template that entered that figure yesterday, which is neither dismissed nor given right to stop—go, which has a macabre ridicule!—the paid permit. You're at home, you're not going to work, you're making a payroll that you're not going to charge, and you don't even receive for anxiolytics, while you make it easy, yes, that negotiations can last in time without closing. This kind of negotiation, of the pressures that we exerted from the PP Government, would be the logical thing if the Government were to be a government in favor of citizens, if the Government were to be alert and the defence of all these companies threatened by closure and relocation that lead us — if some elections do not remedy it — to an industrial desert fruit of the Government's wish and the God's whims of the market of neoliberal capitalism, to those who worship by beginning too many theoretical. And you know what's the alternative to the vacuum that would leave Isowat's closure? Who would begin to manufacture the components that manufacture this company with proven quality and efficiency? It is clear that it is worthwhile for them to get up from the industrial nap on the couch and move those influences that they are so well able to move when they are interested; this time — and without any precedent — in favour of this country, its industrial fabric and the Isowat workers. I think it's worth it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas Cruz. The People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia has the floor, Mrs. Novoa Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u117	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Mr Casal, today he brings back the same initiative as we discussed in Commission 6a a few months ago, when we reached a unanimous agreement, agreement on which the Government of the Union is working — and you know it and the Isowat works committee as well. Ladies and gentlemen, for this group, of course, it follows the agreement taken in this Parliament, because from the very first moment the Government of the Union has been in constant contact with the Isowat Business Committee of the Crown, which has been moved to support any project which can be submitted and which assumes the maintenance of activity and employment. He also made contact with the Ministry of Industry from the Government to work with the solution, although we have no news of his involvement in intensity. And of course, the Government of the Union is in touch with potential investors and contest administrators. Therefore, Mr. Casal, you cannot deny that since the beginning of the conflict this Government has been working hard and hard to help find a solution, and always respecting the agreements of this House. We agreed with you that we would like this solution to have arrived, but the bids received were not enough to meet the targets set. Yesterday, when they finished the three months of the temporary employment regulation file, we knew there was a potential buyer, a Spanish entrepreneur in the industrial sector interested in buying everything, the real estate and also the productive unit. And for that, ladies and gentlemen, he's negotiating with the principal creditor. This was said a few minutes ago by Mr. Rivas Cruz and he's already questioning him, it seems to you that he's already upsets who's going to be the potential investor or buyer. For us, no, Your Honor, as long as I keep the work going. You're already questioning what the buyer will be. Look, we're hoping that you can materialize that purchase so that almost seventy Isowat workers can get their work back, and even in the same activity they were in earlier. And, ladies and gentlemen, this group would like to see this responsibility and solidarity shown by the Isowat workers as well as by everyone and every one of the more than a thousand jobs in all of Galicia, opponents of the opposition, without discriminating anyone, to no worker, whether in the sector whatsoever; without discriminating, as you do, the laborers of Cence or the thermal plants of our community. For this group — and, of course, for the Government of the Union — all jobs are equal, we defend all the workers equally. Not you, ladies. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, in nine months of government, you have put at risk hundreds of workers in the electrointensive industry and in the energy sector of Galicia with your announcement of the early closure of the thermal power plants and their total inaction with the possible closure of Alcoa; thousands of direct and indirect workers in Ence and hundreds of workers in the automotive sector who, with the irresponsible announcement of the end of the diesel, are seeing how the companies in which they work — those auxiliary automotive companies — are firing people repeatedly. And you, gentlemen of the opposition, gentlemen of the BNG and the Tides, are accomplices of all this disincentive in the Galician industry. They're unreliable, gentlemen. The Lords of En Marea, the Lords of Podemos, continue to ask for seats in the government of Mr. Sánchez. [[Murmurs.]] And you, Mr. Rivas, will co-govern with the Socialist Party there in all the municipal corporations where they can, taking off in many cases what was the first party, the People's Party. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, Your Honor, enough to lie! That's enough to lie! [[Murmurs.]] It's good to meet you here like the job advocates! [[Murmurs.]] No, they only show their sectarianism by defending workers yes and others no. [[Applause]] We don't, we defend all the workers alike, gentlemen. [[Applause]] And talking about you messing with the companies. I hope that you, who say that Galicia goes down... No, listen, business creation data came out in Galicia... — laugh at Mrs. Presas. Well, no, it's just that, look, we have to get the data out of the IGE. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, 12 companies a day, Your Honor. Until May, 1,250 commercial companies. Your Honor, look at the data, I feel they're bothering you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u118	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u119	And, to conclude by now, Mr. Casal, this group has tabled an amendment which is practically the parliamentary agreement we took in February. We took away a point because it has already been fulfilled — as you said —. I hope, however, that we can come to a transaction; especially because we would like to make a unanimous agreement to introduce again to all Isowat workers. And that's why we also ask them to be very careful, because what we need right now is to act with responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. It's in the process of continuing to work as we have so far, with silence and rigour, until we can move forward in a definitive solution. I repeat, Junta maintains a permanent contact with Isowat's corporate committee in the Coruña, so the workers know from the very first moment that there is no doubt that this Government's commitment to supporting any project that may involve the maintenance of activity. As long as any opportunity can be identified, the Board — no doubt — will always be present in that mediation work, but always within the framework of this judicial procedure. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u120	Thank you very much, Mrs. Novoa. You have the floor, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Losada Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u121	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. The truth is, Mrs. Novoa, which is what's called putting the sale before the wound. Look, creating companies and creating societies isn't exactly the same, and it doesn't show at all the power of the industrial sector in any country. It's good to know. In fact, put it on the footnote — not that of the industrial power, but that of the difference — the Galego Institute of Statistics. It's good that you're talking about electrointensives -- there's an initiative on Alcoa. But, look, seventy years ago, it was published in 1984, Orwell's book, where there were two particularly interesting concepts. One was the "neolingua" and the other was the "Ministry of Truth", paradigms of your actions in this Parliament in relation to the Government of Spain. Look, Mrs. Novoa, I know you've been disturbed by the results of the general elections in Galicia, I know they've been upset because they were used to winning and bothered to lose. [[Applause]] But what you have to do is basically respect for the truth and basically not use an industrial situation — which is indeed very complicated in this country — as an election aerial against the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Because when they do, people see that it's a mistake and they don't vote; and you go down, they go down across Galicia — man!, in some places they go down especially. And the truth is, you should learn this lesson. Look, the Ministry of Truth was what the health counsellors and councillors and the president of the board said here, when the public-private construction of Vigo Hospital, that the socialist government was the promoter of this system at Palma de Mallorca Hospital. Today's headline—and I don't write in La Voz de Galicia—: "Matas admits that he predicted in the case of the ballazzo of the Hospital de Mallorca." It would be okay... yes, no, no, ma'am... I understand that she's getting sick as well, but, in any case, I insist, "Kids admit that she's preempted in the case of the Majorca Hospital ballad." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] By the way, you took advantage of OHL, which is Villar Mir's.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u122	Quiet, please! Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u123	It has exactly the same thing to do with Alcoa. And also in that "neoverty," Mrs. Novoa — which I see bothers you especially, and I am moved, who wants you to tell you, is the People's Party's attempt to hide the first trial in this country where you feel like you're accused of your party. This is about politics, this is about politics, and not trying to hide the miseries of the People's Party with issues that you know perfectly well that are not true. [[Applause]] You know perfectly well that there's an energy problem -- and we'll talk about it later -- that's probably an inherited problem from Zapatero's government, but that Rajoy's government has not helped at all solve it, it's made it worse. So I'd like you to talk about Isowat, exactly. Of course, of course...! [[Murmurs.]] No, no, exactly like her. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In fact, in Commission 6 we are looking for agreement on this subject — and I would like to remind you and welcome the workers. And there was an effort of the four groups to reach this agreement. And it's true that the situation has changed. And it is true, therefore, that from the Socialist Group there will certainly not be any problem in adopting an agreement that is agreed between the four parliamentary groups on Isowat. Of course, we believe, without any doubt, that Abanca has to be in touch with the circumstances, because Abanca has received 9,000 million euros public. Abanca has truly surprising business results and therefore without any doubt has to be up to it. And I think who has to negotiate with Abanca is exactly who gave, first, on Mount Pio at the merger, and who blessed an inexplicable sale, which is Mr. Feijóo, or his advisor. [[Applause]] It's exactly...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u124	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u125	They toasted Monte Pio...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u126	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u127	I'd appreciate it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u128	I'd also appreciate it when we're done. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u129	The first creditor with Isowat is exactly Abanca. So I repeat again: who blessed this merger and who never gave explanations why it was sold so fast and without any basis, let's say, as a subject study character, it has to do so, it has to interact with Abanca. And by the way, another reason why Isowat has problems... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I would like to thank you, Mr. President, for Mr. Pazos, who seems to have a problem too...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u130	Quiet, please! Finish, please. Quiet, quiet! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I've asked for silence. Please continue that you are a veteran in this. Please continue. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u131	Another of the fundamental elements of Isowat's problems was the upheaval to the renewables and the wind competition of Mr. Núñez Feijóo's government when he arrived in 2009.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u132	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u133	I wish they hadn't forgotten it either since the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u135	And, by the way, also a question, Mr. Mini.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u137	You don't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada. It's not your turn anymore, I'm sorry. [[Applause]] No, I'm not saying it for you. But there are always some Members who tend to talk about things that have nothing to do with this. This presidency is always allowed. I say "all Members". Not all, some, and anywhere. It's always allowed. Now, what can't be is that we talk about three minutes of something else and then we want to add three more minutes. Of course, if you do that, there's no time left. Then, please, since we don't ask them to get to the point, that we can do it, at least get to time; and, if not, time is cut. So thank you very much. [[Murmurs.]] You have the floor by the non-legislation panel, Mr. Casal Vidal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u139	[...]...of the Galego Nationalist Block, it is implicit in our own self-amendment, with which it would be included. [[Slightly inaudible fragment.]] We hope they accept it that way. And then the amendment by the People's Party misses the fundamental part, the fundamental part, which is how this matter will be solved in the coming days. Indeed, we have reached an agreement. Our proposal is November, so we had to self-amend it, because things have changed. And, yes, we have reached an agreement from all the groups so that the Board had worked on the solution. The reality is that, after seven months, there is still no solution; with which we cannot come back to the agreement that the Union is working on the solution. It was logical seven months ago. Now it's no longer logical, now we have to talk. And the truth is, I'm really sorry that we're back in the demagogy of whether there are good workers, whether there are bad workers. Does that contribute anything to the solution of Isolux and Isowat? Will Isowat's workers be happy with...? What's that worth? I didn't talk about it for nothing, I talked about solutions to Isowat.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u140	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u141	And it would be nice if you answered that solutions would bring the People's Group and the Government of Galicia to the problem of Isowat. That should have gone, Mrs. Novoa, for your intervention. Because it's not glued anymore, that demagogy doesn't glue. Maybe he'll take his means, his friends, but Isowat's workers don't give them anything. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And the solution is clear, the solution goes to the fourth point that we included as self-amendment. The situation is already fully defined, there are already investors, there are contracts, there are suppliers willing to put it into operation, it is fully developed the whole infrastructure, which would have to be updated for it to start working next Monday. What's missing? A deal with the most creditor, with Abanca. In Castela-León, in Medina del Campo, the Government of Castela-León—which, by the way, is the People's Party—and the Ministry of Industry managed to get Abanca to agree with the investor. That's all we have to talk about, and that's what we have to come to an agreement so that it will be gathered in the resolution of the non-law proposal. Because you can't tell me that the president of the Galician board can't do anything and that it would be an intrusion into a private company. But please, a little serious! A company that received, as the Socialist Spokesman said very well, 9,000 million -- although it then returned about 1,000, so I was talking about 8,000 million -- with which I'm sure you provided this mortgage in its entirety, you can't now intend to claim back in full something that all the Greeks have already paid for. So, Mrs Novoa, please come to an agreement and pass it on to the President of the Council of Galicia that we are waiting for that photograph reigning — if possible within two or three weeks — the Isolux factory. That's what the workers expect, and what they expect from this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Casal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. The people of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera and seven other Members, on the drive to the central government to continue management and to push for the necessary regulatory changes to improve the system of contribution and socio-laborative protection of people working on the sea
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u143	This motion for a non-legislative amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Blocs of Wales and the Parliamentary Group on the Environment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u144	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Egerique Mosquera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u145	Good afternoon, gentlemen. Thank you, President. We are going to contextualize this initiative that we bring to plenary today, because we believe it is also the time. The Government of the People's Party in Spain has promoted at the end of its first legislation a significant change to improve the social protection of men and women working in the marine-fishing sector, in particular Law 45/2015 of 21 October. This legal text introduces important changes; among other things, the extension of the collectives covered by the protective mechanisms provided for in the special social security scheme for sea workers. However, there are areas for further progress in the professional, economic and social improvement of these workers. One of these areas of potential improvement is the social security contribution scheme. While the vast majority of workers in Spain, when they meet the requirements for access to a pension, they get some accounts that don't differ substantially from those they perceive while they're active, it doesn't happen the same with all the professionals admitted to the special scheme of sea workers. As I said, those whose work is remunerated by the traditional system paid to the part, and the rest of those who are confined to the second and third contribution groups, among which the autonomouss of the sea are included, would not be paying for their real wages, which is detrimental to these workers and their future pensions. The reasons behind this discrepancy are based on the different assumptions that current legislation sets out to determine each worker's income. It's too artificial a mechanism, which, as a final result, offers lots under reality or, in the case of the autonomous of the sea, tied by an equal fixed quota for all and unremovable. To correct a problem similar to that described, the special scheme of self-employed workers allows, from its creation, the possibility of choosing a basis of assessment more consistent with the economic or profit possibilities and expectations, always within the limits established according to the worker's age. This same advantage is provided for agricultural workers on their own. Well, in the same way that an agreement was reached on the issue of self-employed people to initiate an amendment, from the Popular Parliamentary Group, we believe that women and men in the sea deserve the same treatment, with the possibility of benefiting from the advantages that it would entail. The People's Parliamentary Group had come to demand from the administrations the impetus for a regulatory reform in terms and with the limitations that could be agreed on in a process of dialogue with professionals in the maritime-fishing sector that would allow a similar system to be put in place for the free choice of the different basis of contributions, allowing voluntary increase on the basis of the minimum established basis. And it is important that we focus on this issue: to increase voluntarily. There's no obligation here for anyone on this initiative. In this line, the Galician Parliament approved in 2016 a non-legislative proposal which, in fact, sought the necessary policy changes to improve the system of contribution and socio-work protection of sea workers, formulating the possibility of specifically studying the establishment of a system of voluntary improvement of the basis of assessment. From a practical point of view, a reform of these characteristics would be very beneficial for all professionals in the world of the sea in Galicia, in a special way for those owners of small boats that carry out their work on board them, workers on the other hand surrounded by small boats and self-employed non-boats; fundamentally seafood and redebas, which are the most difficult to find in the application of the current legislation. This parliamentary group therefore calls on the Government to continue with the management and push for policy changes that are necessary to improve the system of contribution and socio-work protection of workers working at sea, and to study the possibilities of establishing a system that will enable the contribution bases to be increased voluntarily — again I insist — by taking advantage of the fact that the Ministry of Labour is working — as a result of redundancy — in a new system of contribution for self-employed people. We are therefore faced with a positive initiative; a positive initiative because it is for the sector, it is for professionals in the sector, and it is also in agreement with them. In addition, this initiative marks several contradictions. As I said, willingness to face the obligation, in view of the tax mandate that the PSOE and We can put in the sector — I will talk about this later. Here we are betting on a sector decision on the decision of politicians; that is, this is voluntary. Performance in the face of the collection, in the face of the pure and harsh collection, without more, the cost of this sector. We ask for an advantage drawn from the improvement in the economic performance they can have, that it will be added to their own numbers. We talk about making more money and being able to pay more. Rights against obligations. In front of those who set out payment obligations and an increase in the amount of money to be disbursed — not 25 per cent — without providing any additional rights, we propose a voluntary increase that brings benefits to the professionals when they retire; so we talk about whether they can voluntarily opt for better pensions. And besides, we also have equality in relation to differentiation. Because, in the face of those who give opportunities to part of the taxpayers, we bet on extending that possibility to all and to all; especially, in this case, those who work in a harsh and hostile environment like the sea. So we're talking about equality. It's an initiative, as I said, in a positive way. And it is a timely initiative, because we understand that this is the right time to bring this proposal forward and make it a reality in favour of the sector. In addition, he said that, focusing on the very objective of the Ministry of Labour, which is to review all initiatives for self-employed people, it is appropriate, it is the appropriate time, because the necessary steps have already been taken. I spoke before the priority which was drawn up by Law 47/2015, which regulates the social protection of seafarers, after forty years of vigilance, which clarifys the collectives who must be ascribed to the special regime of seafarers —mergullators, redeployers, etc.—. It is the right time to join the Ministry of Labour, Migration and Social Security. Minister Valerio himself says they're working on a new system of quote, based on real income, for the autonomous. This is what the minister himself says, and, if he is a minister again and if the Government is the PSOE—PSOE, Podemos, and I would even dare say that the Galician Nationalist Block, by the nationalist parties that could support that new president—we talk about volunteering and adding, and we talk about favouring sea workers. It is appropriate because, in addition, the sector is reasonably good in economic terms. We must remember that the fisheries sector has reached record numbers of invoicing in these years, especially in the areas involving coastal fishing and bass fishing. And we're also out of electoral campaigns. We have always pointed out that we do not want to pursue a fisheries policy, we want to make a fishing policy and we want this long period without elections in sight to be a good time to achieve unanimity once again in this House in favour of the sea sector. It's positive, timely, and it's an initiative of summation. I would also like to say that it is an initiative of summation because, when we talk about the maritime-fishing sector, we should all add up, we should all row in favor and really, not in mouth. I say "bottle" because you in many cases want to support the sector, help it and, in electoral campaigns, approach it; but, at the time of approval of the initiatives and at the time of putting on the table all the benefits that this sector can have, you should also vote to support and join these initiatives as well. So this is the time to complete a work that has already started in March 2016. As I said, a non-legislative proposal has been unanimously adopted in this Parliament calling for a system of voluntary improvement in the social security contribution scheme for seafarers. There has been no realisation, but there have been contacts, there have been studies about what you will know, there have been several advances. And now you can complete all this work by winning rights without increasing duties. Because you, the opposition -- and I'm going to say "the complete opposition" -- voted in Congress of Deputies in favour of the rise and the duties that these sea workers have to have, with an increase in quotas but without getting anything in return for their part. So we believe that it is necessary for them to choose whether or not they want to increase that quote. We understand, moreover, that this is the moment for all the reasons I have just said, and because, as the Ministry itself said that this possible rise of autonomy would be examined, we also want this possible initiative to be analysed with regard to seafarers. You pass the bill of up payment on December 28, a day of innocent saints — I don't know if it was a casual thing or by any means — but then you don't see this rise in social security contributions in the law of budgets that the PSOE had prepared, which fortunately couldn't get out ahead because otherwise it would be a battalion for the fishing sector. It is also said that contributions for vessels less than 10 tonnes will be excluded. But when it comes to the referral of the budgeting project, there is no collection of the exclusion that they formulate in this royal decree, with which artisanal fishermen, seafarers and conceivers would double this type of quote, all without exclusion. Therefore, if the Ministry is going to review this, if this issue is already contemplated and requested by the sector itself, we believe that it is very appropriate to adopt this initiative today. It should be recalled that in defence of the obligation of payments only the People's Party in Congress of Deputies voted in favour of workers enrolled in the special regime of the sea, voting against this validation of this Royal Decree Law 28/2018.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u146	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u147	I insist, an innocent woman for the seamen. We therefore hope that the rest of the groups will support this initiative, that they will add to the improvement of these working conditions of the sea workers and let us all address them in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u148	Thank you very much, Mrs. Egerique. You have the floor by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u149	Good afternoon. Yes, Mrs. Egerique, the fishing sector is that it comes out, it increases incomes, it increases fishing capacity, it's on the rafts building fishing boats, it's fantastic. This tribune, like paper, holds almost everything. As much as you insist here that the BNG votes in favour of these issues, because, well, you insist more, that that is not why it will become true. You know perfectly well that's not true. And you persist in this question of "counsels seeing that for me I don't have." I think it's very nice to ask you to join the proposals that are good for the sector. I'm asking them the same thing, because the rest of us bring here initiatives that are very good for the sector and you systematically vote against. And indeed, Law 47/2015, of 21 October, theoretically updated legislation on the care of workers and workers from the sea, which is responsible for protecting the rights of these professionals. But obviously that law has left a lot of things unregulated; otherwise, we wouldn't have to be here today asking questions that could have been clarified in that legislation. So much so that law, in its preamble, if we read, makes a reference to professional collectives, to the physical space in which activity is carried out, to the hardness of living conditions on board, to the prolonged isolation of crews, to the alienation of family home, high rates of morbidity and sinequality, as well as to the seasonal nature of work. I mean, this refers to the need for special legislation. It is clear that all of this, the area of the Greek Sea of the slump, of the shellfish and so on, is not much collected in this legislation which the People's Party has put into action. I say so that he'll take a little note of that very well, very well, of course, they didn't. Social protection continues to be provided by the Social Institute of the Navy, both in the protection of the social problem and as a managing entity of the special social security regime to the people of the sea. And, of course, we do not think that the great evolution of the sector was taken into account and that it was necessary to update, because the legislation that applied was from very far behind — in many cases of the time of franchise. But he certainly did not adapt to needs. And in many matters because it remains a system with branches of Monte Pio in that sense of protection and not of the reality that is needed at the moment. He didn't take into account a changing and modernizing reality for the people of the sea. The legislation on the care of workers and workers at sea, despite these changes, continues to have many defects, still being obsolete in many respects. And besides, it's still, all the legislation about the people of the sea, plunged into a sort of lack of clarity that makes it difficult for them to know clearly what's affecting them and what doesn't affect them on many occasions. What is clear is that in this special regime of the sea there are a large number of collectives, both workers on account of merchant marine, sea fishing, inland traffic, sports, recreation, as divers, redeployers or summerers on their own. And then, besides, subdivided into groups, which makes it difficult to follow up and which is also easy to apply to people at sea. In any case, in the 2018 budgets there has already been a 1.4% rise to the sea people's contribution base — the People's Party's budget, I say it to put things in their fair term — which then, in fact, with Royal Decree 28/2018, a new upward of the contribution bases — but already in 2018 was envisaged — has been considered. I'm saying it 'cause then they got really good, as soon as they lost the government. As long as they didn't lose him, they didn't have any problems at all. And we are in favour of the initiative that they bring here today, because it's a demand from the sector, because they've been demanding for a long time now that the basis of quote would have to go up, but that was to improve the issues they demand. As it is, indeed, that having a low-rate basis means having a low pension, having problems at the time of the cessation of activity, or having to pay for unemployment, or having to pay for maternity leave. Obviously, it's a problem. But they also demanded the increase in the reduction coefficients, which you in the legislation didn't want to touch them. And we find ourselves with things like those that work in merchant ships have a 0.4; those on board fishing boats, from a 0.4 to a 4.15. But shellfishers, fellows, seaweed pickers and others have a 0,10. And that also has to change; and, like that, other questions. So today, BNG is presenting a amendment that we have tabled on other occasions and to which you voted against. They voted against, of course. And what do we ask? That by the Social Institute of the Navy, which is the body responsible for regulating and dealing with matters relating to seafarers, within a month's time, a report is sent to the confrereries and to this Parliament of which the situation of the people of the sea is at present. Because there are so many collectives and so much differentiation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u150	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u151	...that it is necessary to have this study for then, from here on, from this Parliament, to demand from the Spanish Government the necessary changes for these social contributions to be derived in coverage according to the needs of seafaring people in Galicia, from seafaring people in Galicia. And you'll have to explain to me why you're against presenting a study to find out what the real situation is right now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u152	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u153	I'm saying that because you ask for explanations continuously, but you're not willing to give anything at all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u155	Thank you, President. The truth is that we, firstly, have to say how we say many times, that we find it unacceptable to use this Parliament to bring initiatives here, we understand it in an opportunistic way. Lately it's a constant in its political affairs, but since there's another government in the state, it seems that the only initiative they have to bring here is to ask the Government of the State for questions. We also sometimes bring initiatives to ask him for questions, but it's only you now do that. And, above all, they never assume their own competences — you never have any responsibility for anything, no competition — nor do they give any kind of explanation why they haven't taken, in all those long years they've been ruling, the measures that are now so quick to implement. In the specific case of what we are talking about today, of course we agree with the need to improve the social protection of workers and workers from the sea, but we wonder why the People's Party, who has been ruling so long, has not taken the necessary steps they are now demanding, as I say, with so much speed. And then, by entering the proposal as to the objectives that they mark, and, as I say, by generally agreeing with what they propose, we have to say that it seems to us little ambitious and a little scarce. And that's why our amendment is to complete. We understand that it improves the initiative they are presenting, and we also believe it should be assumed that they really want to defend the sector, as they always say. Some points. On the one hand, we think it's good to increase contributions, but we also understand that it has to be taken into account that it cannot affect the perceptions that sea workers receive. And besides, as I say, we believe that this increase in contributions must also be accompanied by another series of improvements that have long claimed, that the sector has been putting on the table for a long time. And we think it's urgent that we take action. On the one hand, on the subject of professional diseases, it is essential for us to improve the catalogue of these diseases. There's obviously a problem. They're often going through common diseases that are due to work, when we know that the work that people from the sea are exposed to, the marshes, the reefs, the sailors, should have a special and very meticulous treatment. Right now, there's often no recognition of professional diseases, and they're catalogued erroneously, for various reasons, like common diseases. On the other hand, let's insist on something that has also been mentioned here, which is the theme of reducing coefficients. And we keep insisting. For us this is just as important as the part they expose to the amendment they bring today. There are very obvious discriminations in the current situation for collectives like those of nets, or like traditional fishing. And we understand that we also need to take action in this direction, so our non-law proposal rightly demands these issues, things that are basic and that are asking for the sector. You always say that you listen to the sector and that you always move the initiatives that the sector is asking for. Well, these two specific issues the sector has been putting them on the table for a long time, and demanding that they be recognized. And they've been in there for a long time. We always ask you to listen to the sector, but not to say that you listen, but to listen to them in a real way. And for that, you have to get in touch with them, listen to them and do a deep study too. As I say, they often make it like you don't have any kind of competition, and that's why our point 2 of the amendment, we understand that it should be assumed: to do a study to take the necessary measures. Finally, the truth is that it's rather boring to always listen to those claims to unity, and that if the opposition does not want, that if the People's Party always has the hand to reach agreements... No, the problem is, they just want to come to terms with their proposals. They systematically veto and vote against the opposition's proposals. If you really want to come up with agreements to improve the sector, argue here, for example, why you're going to reject the amendment we make from the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, because we believe there's no objective reason to reject it. If they refuse it, they're actually rejecting the proposals made by the sector itself. Because it's not proposals that we're putting on the table just from this group, it's proposals that come up with demands from the sector. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Paz may come here, if you will, and stop interrupting the full moment. Come here and talk about fishing if you want, but at least have some education.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u156	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u157	Well, when I'm talking to you, I'm going to yell, see how it feels and see if... No, I was talking forward. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If you want, then we'll check the video together, I don't have any problems.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u158	Quiet, please. They don't dialogue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u159	It's just that, above being interrupting the full, he's still got more to say. It's amazing!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u160	Come on! Come on, please, finish it! I just didn't hear that much noise either, really.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u161	No, there was no noise. The only thing I was talking about was him, the rest was silent. But the only thing that is constantly interrupting, making allusions—after he turned, but he was making direct allusions—was Mr Pazos. I continue and finish. As I say, they're only worth the People's Party's proposals, because they systematically reject all the proposals for improvement for the fisheries sector we've made since the opposition. Finally, if they want to defend him, what they should do is another fishing policy. Because the data assesses the bad situation in which workers and sea workers find themselves in our country today. And they're a lot. We lose workers, and the workers and workers who are left do so under bad, bad conditions. That's why we understand that those minimum points to ask the Government of the State should be assumed. And at least let the Union do something, that takes some initiative; in this case, to do a study to know in depth, which is a similar amendment to the one presented by the Galician Nationalist Block as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u162	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u163	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Mrs. Egerique, how can you make the following statement that the sector is doing very well? You cannot measure the good movement of the sector only in terms of billing. And I just want to remind you that, since Núñez Feijóo arrived at the Government of Galician Union, if they lost 1 out of every 5 jobs in the sector, if we talk about women, 1 out of every 3. And we have a tremendous failure in the generational substitution. Is that how the People's Party understands the sector? Look, a punctuation, because they don't even know the laws they pass under a popular government. The law governing the social protection of workers in the maritime-fishing sector is Law 47/2015, because Law 45/2015 regulates volunteering. So they approve laws and they don't even know what laws are; they do not, because of lack of political will, have been regulatoryly developed in fundamental aspects and they now come to request here, as is the theme of the increase in the reducing coefficients of group 3, which is precisely regulated in Article 11 of that law. Look, to increase voluntary contributions above the bases in groups 2 and 3, which are those that have a fixed basis -- since group 1 is quoted by the really perceived -- they've been asking for it since the National Federation of Brotherhoods for many years. It's not a new requirement. In relation to what is covered in the retirement of sea workers very much below what is charged in active, you will have to look at how many pay less, which I'm sure there are, as well as in the general regime, but in the words of the sector there are not many. Anyway, the average retirement pension for sea workers is above the average pension. With data from May 2019, the average retirement pension was 1,137.71; the average pension in the general scheme, 1,283.84; and the sea regime, above that average, which is 1,275.26. These issues, an increase in EOCs — especially in Group 3 — such as the possibility of studying the feasibility of contributing above the bases in Groups 2 and 3 — are topics on which the National Federation of Brotherhoods, the State Secretariat of Social Security and the ISM are already working. The truth is, the proposal is not a law that today brings debate to this House is not timely, but an opportunistic one. And it comes to corroborate what we have been reporting since the Socialist Group for a long time: that the Galician Union does not listen to the sector, that for many years the government of Nuñez Feijóo did not demand improvements to the central government for the sea workers. It's just that you yourselves are drawing attention to initiatives that call upon the central government to claim the old demands of the sector, such as these increases in COE, improvements in contributions, or recognition of new occupational diseases. But why didn't they claim them before when they had government responsibilities in Madrid? What have you been doing for seven and a half years to improve the conditions of seafarers? We are going to support this initiative, because what you are asking for today in this non-law proposal is what is already being done, as I said by the Social Security State Secretariat, the ISM and the National Brotherhood Federation. And even so you recognize him, because in his initiative they urge the Council of Galicia to address the Central Government to continue its management. So, if it's to continue, it's because something is started, and because the government of Pedro Sánchez did listen to the sector. And, look, let's go back with the mantra that you raise the contributions of the self-employed without any kind of consideration. But that's not what the sector says. The sector is not against the real decree, the sector is asking that these characteristics of sea workers be taken into account. And they're asking for new social improvements. Because if they recognize that there has been progress with this real decree, such as that temporary incapacity can be charged from the first day, for both common and professional continuances; and that the period of termination of the activity benefit is increased to twenty-four months; that this cessation of activity protection may be charged from the first day of discharge in the RETA and previously had to be expected on the first day of the following month. And also with the rise of the contribution bases because there will be future benefits in pensions of permanent disability, temporary disability, maternity, paternity, unemployment, etc. But despite these advances, the central government is working with the sector to achieve new social improvements, such as the recognition of new diseases, the processing before the Ministry of Labour of a study on the possible increase in COE, analyzing the criteria for access to the cessation of the provision of activity — especially for group 3, which we know have permission to work in different arts — as well as the possibility of contributing above fixed bases. But, look, to finish, they let you negotiate both the sector and the ISM itself and the State Secretariat. And just a little advice: recapacitence, ladies of the People's Party, don't follow the mantra that everything is the fault of the government of Pedro Sánchez, that it's going to destroy everything. Because, look, Pedro Sánchez's government was tried on April 28th. And the polls spoke and handed down a sentence, a sentence from which it can be drawn that citizenship, most of its citizenship, does not feel the same as the People's Party. Because, look, the judgment was clear: 123 in front of 66. And not only in the general state account, but also here in Galicia, where the PSdeG was the most voted party. They're recapacitated, because their message doesn't buy it anymore. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u165	Thank you, President. Mrs. Prado, you gave me the joke we weren't going to accept the amendment. I'm going to accept the amendment, I'm going to accept the amendment, I'm going to accept the amendment... I'm trying to explain it from the scene, but you haven't seen me. Look, I had to answer to you but also to Mrs. Quinteiro, who talks about both of us systematically voting against. Look, in Commission 8 we approved 81 non-law proposals. Only 37 were from the People's Party, but we systematically voted against it. Look, if you're always saying that as a mantra, because that's a mantra, we vote against it now, and you don't have to lie. Because we want to row in favor. And when you come up with proposals that are in favour, which are in line with the needs of the sea sector, we vote in favour of these GNPs. Yes, Mrs. Prado!, don't put that face, because the data are there: 81 non-law propositions, and only 37 of the People's Party. Most of them are the Galician Nationalist Block, the Socialist Party or the Marea. But, well, as I say, if you have that mantra and if you're going to be saying that, I think those who don't believe what you always say, those mantras, are the workers of the sea. And, Mrs Otero — and Mrs Quinteiro, too, because the three of them have agreed in their speeches — is not opportunistic, it is timely, totally timely. And you don't come here, Mrs. Otero, to throw balloons out, because you and Podemos have just passed a decree, you and In Marea -- in this case I'm not going to say the Galician Nationalist Block -- that goes up the quote. And you have formed an absolute discontent among the workers of the sea. So if you come here saying that all the blame belongs to the People's Party, that's not true. We therefore want this initiative to come out with the support of all the political groups in this Parliament, because we know — not Mr Sánchez, who is talking to the workers permanently, forgive me, that there is no one who creates it — we know here, in Galicia, what their needs are. And, therefore, from Galicia we are going to ask you from this Parliament what the Government has to do so that the people who work at sea themselves have decent contributions, have decent pensions and, in addition, volunteer that contribution to social security contributions. You have also introduced that decree and says Mr. Sánchez is working... lying, working with Podemos, now working with Podemos and sharing the ministries. That's what you're doing. He's working that way, he's not working for the State Secretariat, and he's not working for the sea sector. So today is timely, I insist, because there are no elections. And you assume from some election results that a few months later, a few weeks later, they've gone down loudly. So, we're no longer here to suck or not pull out. Here we are for all, there are for all, and therefore we will try that in this proposal not by law the workers of the sea, at least the workers of the sea of Galicia, who are those who interest us, are supported by this Parliament, and we will be able to respond, as we have all said, to their requests; neither to the PP nor to the Bloc nor to the Socialist Party, but to their own requests. That's what they ask. And, look, I'll give them a date. They say you can't count only the economic terms to know how the sector is going. But it is important, especially for this initiative. And, look, the average income per boat of minor arts grew by 44% between 2009 and 2018 -- 16% more than the Bipartite -- The average income on foot grew by 40% between 2009 and 2018 — 13% more in the Feijóo government in reference to the Bipartite. They're not mantras, they're data and they're timely and unopportunistic needs. So we're going to accept the amendment to the Galego Nationalist Block, because we believe it's important that we know which sectors and when these climbs are more appropriate. And we will reject En Marea because you voted in Madrid against the sea sector, so we're going to reject it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Next proposal is not law. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Paula Prado del Río and twelve other Members, on the demand by the Government of Greece to the Ministry of Justice for inclusion, in the proposal for the creation of new judges for Galicia in 2019, of a social judge for the city of Lugo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u167	An amendment was tabled by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u168	To formulate the proposal you have the floor to Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the risk of us being accused of continuing with the mantra that the Government of Mr. Pedro Sánchez punishes Galicia, we will again speak of the punishment of Mr. Pedro Sánchez to Galicia. It is obvious, above all in this particular case, that the city of Lugo and its surroundings are prejudiced by the decision unilaterally taken by the Ministry of Justice not to create a social trial in Lugo, contrary to the criteria of all the agents involved, such as the General Council of the Judiciary and the Council of Galicia, the Directorate-General of Justice. As you all know, the creation of new judges is the responsibility of the Government of the State, because the judicial bodies established in the Law of demarcation and judicial plant change. Depending on the number of judicial units contemplated in the State budgets, from the Ministry of Justice, the units that can be set up in a given budget exercise are communicated to the autonomous community. From the very first moment, the Autonomous Community of Galicia has brought forward to the Ministry of Justice the readiness of the Galician Union to host all the number of units that could be assigned to it, which since the ministry has settled in three. This is nothing new. During the last few years in the debates we had here we saw how the Galician Board has always made available to the Ministry the resources it had to make, as far as personnel and material resources, to equip Galicia with the number of judicial units the Ministry wanted to give it. Even on one occasion, he picked up some judicial unit that he didn't want another autonomous community. Well, as the Joint Commission between the High Court of Justice and the Council of Galicia is determining the priority proposal of the units that are considered necessary in the autonomous community, and after the meeting held on 12 December 2018, the Directorate General of Justice transferred to the Ministry the unanimous proposal consisting of the creation of three new social judgments; in particular, and in alphabetical order: Justice of Lugo, Judge number four of Santiago and Judge number six of Vigo. Despite this proposal which sent to Galicia in February, the Ministry asked the autonomous community for a report to the actual ministerial draft decree for the creation, within the 2019 programming, of three judicial units. By assigning the Ministry's project for the creation of units in Galicia, they would be: a magistrate in Section 2 of the Provincial Court of the Crown, Trial No. 14 of the Crown and Social Court No. 6 of Vigo. In view of the fact that the ministerial project for the establishment of judicial units was far from the proposal made by the Joint Committee and the High Court of Justice, the creation of new social courts, both Santiago and Lugo, was issued. For the Joint Commission has returned to the ministry this unanimous proposal and of the necessity of these three social judges in Galicia: Vigo, Santiago and Lugo. Corrected the creation of a new social court in Santiago — which we have not yet seen as concrete, but there is simply an announcement. I also don't know if the Board has received any communication, maybe we have to ask some questions from the Vice-President General of Justice if there is any newness in this respect -- there is Lugo's as a necessary trial and that it must be created by the workload that, according to the modules approved by the Ministry of Justice and the General Council of the Judiciary, must preside over these decisions. So, the new workload modules and their consideration as the main criterion for the creation of judicial organs. And last December, the Ministry of Justice, Socialist, not the People's Party -- I say it because if anyone thinks this is a particular thing, no, it was the socialists -- it's funny that they are their partners, Mrs. Presas, and the General Council of the Judiciary signed an agreement to determine the workload of the judicial organs in order to pay attention to their incoming volume. Well, in this agreement, which is published in the BOE of December 29, 2018, for those judges who have competence in social matters the module is in eight hundred annual matters, including the execution of judgments, eight hundred annual matters. Well, these new modules that mark the ministerial order correct the previous ones, which have come since 2003, in the light of the policy changes and the general situation of those who have been brought to justice throughout the national territory. And the workload set by the new modules, according to this agreement, says exactly: "It would be one of the main criteria for decision-making that affect the establishment of judicial bodies, the adoption of means of reinforcement and emergency plans." Well, these were the criteria that led the Joint Commission between the High Court of Justice of Galicia and the Galician Union to make their proposal. Indeed, according to the criteria established by the Ministry's Agreement and the General Council of Judiciary, in the Justice of the Social de Lugo entered into last year of 2018 1,181 matters, which places in one hundred and forty-eight percent the module established in this order of December 29. And it's not a matter of time, is it? You could say, no, it's a point of the year 2018; no, this is a structural issue, ladies and gentlemen. Well, as we know today, for this year 2019 the Central Government has assigned three judges to Galicia, implementing them in Royal Decree 256/2019 of 12 April, of the creation of judicial units corresponding to the 2019 programming, which will be Judge Number 6 of the Social of Vigo, Social Number 4 of Santiago de Compostela and the Trial of First Instance Number 14 of the Coruña. So we don't know anything about the Lugo Social Court. Information blackout from both the Ministry and the mayor, who doesn't claim anything. [[Murmurs.]] No, no, yes, of course, Mrs. Rodil, you'll come here and tell me that you've met and taken a picture. [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] They took our hair! They took our hair, Mrs. Rodil. [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] I'll explain: we've had hair. They took our hair, and you too, because as their government partners, I don't know if they took it or let it be taken. [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] Because, of course, that's another option, because as you're now cogoverning and are preparing for the wedding on the 15th because, of course, they're just as happy now. Then comes the honeymoon and, of course, we'll see. But maybe she'll take a little bit of the wedding preparations because, Mrs. Rodil, maybe you'll have a surprise. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] The Block also presents an amendment and, Mrs. Rodil, you've been asking for an exclusive trial of gender-based violence for Lugo for a long time. I think on this subject you have to be very serious and, when you ask for something, you have to know if you're doing the ratios as well. You know that the ratio for the creation of an exclusive trial of gender-based violence is in a thousand six hundred business. Do you know how many gender-based violence issues the Lugo trial? Just over 300. But, it's more, it's that even in the compatible trial ratio it doesn't even arrive, because a compatible judge has a three thousand business ratio. And do you know how many have Lugo's trial adding civilians, criminal and exclusive to gender-based violence? He's got a thousand eight hundred, that is, 60 percent peak. It's very serious, Mr Bará, just like you do a lot of grace, I don't think it's funny because I think you have to be very serious in this matter. [[Mr. Bará Torres utters words that are not perceived.]] We have often raised in this Parliament the need for the com-arcacalization of judges of gender-based violence and that is where we are going to find them. No, you have often voted against, Mr. Bará, many, many! [[Mr. Bará Torres utters words that are not perceived.]] I came to some agreement with an old lady who was here, who was Mrs Teresca Peace, because she did understand it, because she lived the reality of Ourense. But then there was a Member of the House — who now stands up for feminism — who said no — that nothing more than comarcalyization. And from there there was a point and the part in the defense of the comarcaalization of the judges of gender-based violence. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that in this matter we must be very serious and we must be very strict. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u170	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u171	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. I smiled from the scene, Mrs. Prado, because today we would be in part agreeing. I was going to give him some reason; but, I don't know, he came against me like this, I don't know, I'll think about it a little bit. I'll think about it a little! [[Laughter]] It's a joke! [[Applause]] That we've been here all day. [[Applause]] And following a little with such a relaxed tone... because, of course, you remember that story of Manuel Rivas saying, "Galiza told an extraterrestrial" How would you see us, this working Greek people, a person who came from outer space? Well, if an alien landed here today in this Chamber, in the Parliament of Galicia, and listened to Mrs Prado, for she could believe that the problems in the social trials of Lugo began a year ago, when Mr. Pedro Sánchez entered the door of the Moncloa. I will not take away from him the reason for the Socialist Party's most absolute disillusionment with this country and with the city of Lugo since the Government of the Spanish State on this matter, I will not take it away from him. But it is also not that the problems in the trials of the social of Lugo began with Mr. Pedro Sánchez. The workers and the judicial workers, without going further — so, a little bit, for example — are being mobilized in Lugo in front of the judges since 2015, precisely to demand the creation of this fourth trial of the social in front of the collapse that they live. Even Mrs. Prado recognized this in her speech that it was not a matter of time that if she was in a higher workload than modules in 2018 on a punctual basis, which was something that had been repeated in previous years. We don't know why it seemed to them then that he didn't have to be created. They're making citations in the proceedings by 2021 due to the continued accumulation in file time. And it shows that the problems didn't start two days ago, nor with Mr. Pedro Sánchez, is that this House unanimously welcomed an agreement in January 2017 on Commission 1st, driven by the Nationalist Block Galego. We reached a unanimous agreement between all groups with a transaction, precisely, between the People's Party and the BNG to claim that courtroom; and, in the meantime, it was not created, that he was appointed a magistrate or a magistrate of reinforcement. Nothing at all. And now, of course, they hit the chest, well strong, eh! Welcome to the chest, but they're late! When the People's Party ruled in the Spanish State, what they had were excuses and arguments enough to justify that this courtroom of social status was not created. Today they boil, but also because the responsibilities are others. We agreed — I told you and, yes, I give you the reason — that it is unacceptable for Lugo to remain without a new trial, the Social Room, despite the announcements of the Spanish Government — you also said so — that wonderful picture between the Minister of Justice and the mayor, now in function, of the city of Lugo. They announced and promised to equip themselves with the reinforcement of a judge, a lawyer and three officials. That's all we have right now, a press release. Because it's a patch; we don't like it either, and we point out, in addition, that it's unacceptable. It's a patch and it's temporary. That courtroom of the social is not a waste of time, it's not a particular appetite or will. It's a fundamental service to guarantee the rights of workers and workers. We're talking about matters that address claims for paid wages, social security claims for disability or occupational rights that have been violated in the event of dismissals. For example, the delay of two years, or even more, violates the right to effective judicial custody of workers and workers and reinforces the position of companies that violate rights or/and violates their obligations in the workplace. We will support the initiative, Mrs Prado. We will support the initiative, but we also want to go further. You used to talk about our amendment. In addition to the fourth trial of the social, it is believed to be an exclusive trial of masquerading violence; we will not tire of repeating it. It's not Place the only city that would need it, Ourense has a very similar demographic and social situation. We have never voted against comarcallization, we defend it whenever we have had occasion in this legislation. I'll review the Journal of Sessions; I'll leave you the right to the doubt, because you'll have to review the Journal of Sessions. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] But we never voted against comarcaalization, we always argued that there should be a tendency to share within the same province different judicial parties in order to be able to count on exclusive services that guarantee the attention that women who are in a situation of macho violence and decide to denounce. Besides, it's not a single or exclusive demand from the Nationalist Block of Wales: last March -- there's only a few weeks ago -- the College of Law of Lugo once again claimed it through his dean, Mr. Mondelo, and together with that courtroom of the Social asked, besides, a family trial. Since they're banging their chests, the People's Party and the Galician Union are also adding to this social demand in Lugo. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u172	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u173	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Mrs. Prado, for you the world, politics, began on June 1st, 2018, before there was — the day of the motion of censure — no. And indeed, the dignified policy and decency began from 1 June 2018, it is true. [[Murmurs.]] You came here today to do — I am not religious at all, but I asked why I need to know, and the knowledge does not take place — the steps to a confession: he took a conscientious examination and said that, indeed, Lugo needs a new social judgment; he did pain of sins, because he said that before Mr. Rueda asked for the number of judicial units that the Government wanted to give him — the Government of Mariano Rajoy — so in his good will; he did purpose to amend, and this initiative is a purpose of amendment; he told us about the sins to his confessors, and you will fulfill penitentiary, because we will vote in favour, too, of his initiative. We told you the other day at Commission 1st, because this is not the first time you've come here. There are three reasons. First, we asked for it in a non-law proposition years ago, Mrs. Prado, let's go! We approved it — as the BNG spokesman put it — in Commission 1st in 2017 unanimously; nothing at all. In 2017 he was Mariano Rajoy as president of the Government; remember, because the world is true that began June 1, 2018, but before he was Mariano Rajoy, there was no purse on his seat, as happened in those days of the motion of censure. And then, on April 17, this year, you brought an initiative that collected this in the spirit exactly as we say today; in fact, we're talking about Social Judge Number 4 to Lugo. So much so that you asked the Ministry of Justice: "Enlarge from the new 2019 programming the creation of new judicial units in Galicia which, in a consensual way, calls on the Joint Commission to pay attention to objective and structural workload needs and to the number of units assigned to the Autonomous Community." By the way, it is the first time your parliamentary group has taken legal initiatives asking the Government of the State for nothing, the first time! Obviously, ruling Mr. Mariano Rajoy, you didn't ask for anything, and now you're asking to include the Social Court number 4 for Lugo. Well, we agree. Because the Joint Commission has said for years that the Social Court in Lugo — in Lugo, in Vigo and in Santiago de Compostela — is inexcusable, but, curiously, in 2016, the former President of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia and the Vice-President of the Union came together and said nothing of these imperative needs for the Social Court of Lugo; nothing. And about the data, Mrs. Prado: as the spokeswoman of the BNG told her well, in 2015 the theoretical module of the General Council of the Judiciary was, for social jurisdiction, eight hundred and fifty matters per trial and year, and Lugo was in nine hundred and forty in 2015. The year has been repeated and today we are in the data you said of the year 2018, because in later years the trend has been the same. You woke up and fell off the horse just this year 2019; welcome to the real world, Mrs. Prado. The highest volume of work in the courts of Social Greeks were those of Vigo, Santiago and Lugo, all well over 100 percent. Welcome to the real world; we have long said so. We have already said: we are going to vote in favour, because we have not come here to make amends of anything, of absolutely nothing, but to worry, now when the Socialist Party rules in the state and when not, and we continue to ask the Social Court for Lugo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u175	Good afternoon, gentlemen. As I begin with Mrs Prado's allusion to the women's violence courts, I would like to recall that in February of this year in Commission 1st, a proposal was discussed where we demanded the extension of gender-based violence judges exclusively to all the cities of the country, not only to the Coruña and Vigo, who had it exclusively. The reason the People's Party voted against was that in the operative part we said the legislative reforms needed to agree on that. You kept that there was no need for any legislative reform to wake up the exclusive judges of violence and we said yes. The Organic Law of the Judiciary — as Mrs Rodil had established — provides for the possibility that, above the Judiciary Party, they would be established on a comarcal basis or even there would be no impediment to their being from a provincial level, which would also allow them to approach the mediums of the modules that are necessary and established by the General Council of the Judiciary. The establishment of those judges as exclusives requires an amendment of Law 38/1988, in its annex to the statement of those judges who are exclusive of violence. You said then that you were against because this reference to legal amendment was not justified. Well, I'm using it right now, right here in the plenary, to say something about that question, whether there's a problem of legality or not, or whether there's a problem of another kind. And we're already recognizing the frameworks of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, which establishes a judicial superparty character to cover the numbers required by the General Council of the Judiciary itself. So that's as a point. Although the proposal refers to issues relating to the Social Court, as the amendment of the BNG refers to the subject of the Gender Violence Court, I want to leave this as a previous manifesto, so that there is no doubt that there is no legal impediment to our pronouncement in that sense. As far as the issue of the Social Court is concerned, it seems true that the world has been discovered for you from now on, although the claims have already existed before and that they have access to the Joint Commission. I will quote the dates of the reports issued by the Social de Lugo judges, who were unanimously issued by the three magistrates both to the General Council of the Judiciary and to the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, claiming, on May 15, 2014, that a support judge for the social de Lugo judges; on September 16, 2014, a reinforcement magistrate for the three judges; and from 2015 – 2015! – there is already a specific complaint from a local social court. Specifically, on November 27, 2015 they call for the creation of a new Social Court, and on June 27, 2016 the three magistrates unanimously request the repetition and say: we reiterate the request for the creation of a new Social Court in the Judiciary of Lugo. Well, until this moment -- as it is known and said here from the rostrum by the other groups -- nothing of that -- just one thing: magistrates and magistrates of reinforcement in the following conditions that I shall set out and which are transmitted also by the judges themselves. There was a magistrate named as a reinforcement judge, with economic effects, on May 10, 2017, who began working on June 15, 2017. It ceased for lack of budget for the renewal of the commission, approximately at the end of April or early May 2018; that is, before the famous motion of censure. In the middle he had the vacations and months off of the employee, with the concrete difficulties he had to do this. At this moment there is a reinforcement magistrate who took possession of it on February 11, 2019. So this is the complete situation in a diacrony that is completed by the data you yourself have given and also by the Socialist Party Member. There is a point that has already been made here too: the module, starting on December 29, 2018, is of eight hundred subjects, before it was eight hundred fifty; but — and if you do not know, we remind you now— the entry module in the social court of Lugo in 2013 was of 1,225 issues; in 2014, 1,311 issues; in 2015, 940; in 2016, 1,008; in 2017, 1,029; and in 2018, 1,042. Therefore, it is clear that the need does not arise in 2018 or 2019 and that, therefore, the unanimous request of the social magistrates was more than justified according to the official modules of the General Council of the Judiciary. Today in the Lugo courts, the situation is as follows: for ordinary proceedings, more than two and a half years between admission the procedure of procedure and the date of the hearing — it is now being marked by December 15, 2021 — and for urgent proceedings, the most delicate and important situations for the workers — vulnerability of fundamental rights, etc. — more than six months between admission the procedure of procedure and the date of view. Well, our position is the same government that governs and whoever has to make decisions at these levels. The level of protection of fundamental rights and access to jurisdiction, therefore, we require — obviously by this data — the defense of the constitution of Social Number four, also in order to end the discrimination suffered in the courts of the province of Lugo in relation to the other provinces of Greece, with which it maintains the worst ratio of all. At the substantive level, we also take advantage of claiming, once again, that you stand on the side of the derogation from the labour reforms which have undermined the rights of workers and workers and, therefore, require more recourse to the jurisdiction, that you reduce your protection and that you depower, too, the unions to make collective defences of the rights of workers and workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u176	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Author group of the proposal, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank all the groups for their support. The truth is that it would be incomprehensible for some group to stand against this initiative today. Mrs Vilán, the Joint Committee is the one to ask from Galicia the creation of a trial, and the creation of those judges, of those judicial units, the Joint Committee has done it, has fulfilled it. He made that deal that we had in this chamber, who didn't do it was the Central Government, Mrs. Vilán. I did not fall from the horse, I present an initiative because the central government not only violates this chamber's agreement but, for the first time in Galicia's history, the central government does not heed a request from the Joint Committee, for the first time in history, Mrs Vilán. Who fell from the horse the same way you did. [[Applause]] But look: no, the Government of Pedro Sánchez, that policy, changed on June 1st — you said so — of course it has changed! It has changed to ignore the Joint Committee and to rule out an issue which has been taken unanimously by this House and by the Joint Committee, which are the judges and the Galician Council. It's not true that, when President Rajoy was in charge, we didn't ask for and we didn't present initiatives; it's not true, Mrs Vilán. We are presenting initiatives calling for judicial units; of course we are asking for them, Mrs Vilán. This honourable Member, Mr Villares, has put forward a number of initiatives in this Chamber calling for the comarca­tion of the judges. You weren't at that time, but I presented a lot and debated a lot, and with the Galician Nationalist Block I reached a lot of agreements until the feminist Voicewoman, Mrs. Pontón, said: you can't vote for comarcallization anymore. [[Murmurs.]] Sanitary cord, Mr. Villares. There was a moment in this chamber when we reached agreements on equality, until the opposition groups decided to put on a feminist health cordon and say, with the PP we didn't take any more pictures on equality. [[Murmurs.]] They even got to that point, not to vote on the issue of comarcalyization of the judges of gender-based violence. Look: there's even an interview with former Minister of Cameroon in which he said comarcacalization was an inevitable issue, which had to be; but he was saying something like this: but don't worry, he's never going to give himself, because there will always be some Member or Member who opposes this comarcacalization because it affects his territory. And so it was, because when the Government of the People's Party tried to make a modification of the judicial parties, I don't have to remind them of the follony that was set up in Galicia, because it affected either them or others, do I, Mrs. Vilán? Because there were Members and Members who wanted to defend their territory and therefore did not go ahead. The creation of a new social court in Lugo is very necessary. The mayor of Lugo lied, and the minister lied, Mrs Vilán, and they tricked us all, because they came out in a photo saying they were going to put personnel equivalent to a social trial. No, because you know or should know that there's a previous report from the General Council of the Judiciary, an inspection that was conducted at the social court in Lugo, which said you had to put that reinforcement judge and that reinforcement staff. For what? Only and exclusively for layoffs, Mrs Vilán. Don't cheat on citizenship. Don't tell the lumens that it was Mrs. Minister, so good of her, who put a reinforcement judge and a reinforcement staff. No, they're lying! Your partners lie to you, Mrs. Rodil! He lies to them and tells them to put a reinforcement judge and it's a lie, because he was already in a previous report.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u178	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u179	I know they're getting married anyway, that this isn't a problem for consent, but I want you to know the truth, that you know who your partner is going to be in this matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u180	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u181	And look, it's not a patch, no, it's a fake patch, Mrs. Rodil, because that comes from a previous report from the General Council of the Judiciary that said that we should put that reinforcement only for layoffs, unique and exclusively for layoffs. So, ladies and gentlemen, I'm glad we all agree...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u182	Will the BNG amendment accept it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u183	No, Mr. President. I've manifested myself before...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u184	Thank you. Thank you very much. Time's up. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantiños and five other Members, on the demand of the Greek Government to the central government of public intervention in Alcoa in a transitional way in order to ensure the maintenance of its employment and industrial activity
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u185	There is a self-amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and an amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u186	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u187	Good afternoon, everyone. Today, since the Galego Nationalist Block, we put a first-rate concern on the table again for our parliamentary group: the crisis that is being experienced by the Galician industry, particularly the electro-intensive industry and especially the Alcoa company. We had in this House just two months ago a meeting of the Economic, Employment and Industry Councillor to address this undeniable crisis in our country's industry. And the truth is, by swinging from then on, we've no longer moved forward, but what the hell was steps behind that showed two questions. First, the abandonment and policy of central government lies. And secondly, the failure of the Galician Union; a Galician board which does not want to exercise its exclusive competence in industrial planning and which is not able to exercise the political weight and pressure that our country should have carried out. So we've seen in this time that the only strategy of the Government of Nuñez Feijóo is to throw balloons out. In this are very good, the truth is that this is spectacular, but from these wells, these muds. The situation is that, in general, our country's industry is at a very critical moment today, with many companies like Isowat, which we talked about before, in checkpoints and others that are almost closer to the checkmate, as is the case with Poligal, whom we also want to send our support and greetings to the workers, and our commitment that we will do our best to find a way out. On the other hand, as far as the initiative is concerned, which is the intensive industry, the situation is also limited. This same Saturday, thousands of workers and workers, as well as people who were in solidarity with them and them, manifested themselves in the streets of the Coruña demanding what they have been demanding for more than half a year, which are solutions instead of words, because the truth is that we are at a time of discount. We also understand at this moment that we need not only to hear the claims that the Alcoa, Ferroatlantic and Celsa Atlantic committees were no longer manifest this Saturday, but also to think more deeply about this indecent situation that we live in in a country like Galicia, which, despite being an electric power producer, has companies closing for the price of light; a price of light, by the way, which has also risen again in 2019. I want to remember specifically about the issue of Alcoa that for the first time we know these facts on October 17, 2018, more than eight months ago. But it's no less true that we have been in the open debate about the crisis of industry, in particular about the difficulty of electro-intensive industry by the electrical system for a long time. The question, the underlying problem, is the energy framework, which must be remembered as being made in the People's Party, since 1997, with Aznar, until 2013, with Mr. Mariano Rajoy; an invalid frame that has only made it worse with the latter. It must be remembered that it was the People's Party of Mr. Rajoy who reduced the times of the posses from one year to six months. Therefore, lack of commitment, lack of planning and the situation has worsened. In this sense, we also have to say that there are two issues that are of particular concern to us at this moment. The first of these is the statute of electrointensives. With a living voice, and also through the royal decree, the Government born in the motion of censure to Mr. Rajoy promised by active and passively that there would be a statute of electrointensives. He put the hopes of many people on this issue, but the truth is, what we've seen since then has been one shame after another. Months of pledges, then an election campaign arrived; in the middle of that election campaign we would have the final status; and then, in the end, it turns out, and we kept waiting. The only thing we've known since then was an absolutely disappointing draft that unions, political organizations -- among them the BNG -- and other agents all claimed their content. Eight months after the Alcoa crisis, what we have to say is that we still have no electrointensive status. As I said at the beginning of my intervention, the situation is no longer that it has improved, it has worsened. We have a new call for a break-in pox that we saw with rape last May 27th in the Official State Gazette, and it is no longer that it kept a complicated situation, like when it was the previous one, but it got worse. It reduces the counties that will be able to get these companies to be competitive, reduces the poop blocks, and so what makes it worse is that the starting situation of the Welsh industry is worse. First, because the government of Sánchez has been lying. I want to remember that in March they went out publicly from the ministry to deny Spain's Electric Network and to say that Alcoa Coruña and Alcoa Avilés could compete in these pockets, something that, in the light of facts, we saw that it was a lie. The fact is that the fact that objective conditions have worsened is going to throw out not only those who can no longer be introduced, but we are aware that companies like, for example, Ferroatlantica will probably stay out, and this sends a negative message; a negative message of uncertainty, of instability, to any potential buyer for Alcoa. We understand that we are at a critical time and that we must react with facts and not with words. Today we know, from the leaks to the press and also from the information that the workers are getting, that there are possibilities for buyers, but that not all of them include the Crown, so today we self-imposed and incorporated -- the urgency of the situation -- an amendment for this Parliament to ask the Central Government not to give valid reasons for any option that does not include the Crown, because Galicia cannot afford to stay behind on this matter. [[Applause]] In any case, we're not sure today, we don't know what will happen next July 1st. So since the BNG, we have been insisting on a question: that this Parliament should take a stand. The central government's attitude is disappointing, does not exempt us from the lack of responsibility of the Galician Union right now, and we insist that we have a plan B. We play 400 jobs, not counting the auxiliary industry in Coruña, and we also play the impact that all this could have on San Cibrao, where alerts are already fired. So we understand that we have to have a plan B, we have to put ourselves on the assumption that we will do on July 1 if there is no viable buyer or buyer, for both or for one of the plants, because, of course, if the alternative is that the Central Government is going to blame the past, it's not worth it; if the alternative is that the Government of Galician Union is going to comply with the blame for Madrid, it's not worth it, because that policy of regret, of course, is not the one that provides a country like ours from a strong industry, which is what we need and need. An industry that, in addition, has to say, is costing itself down and without brakes. There's already been a previous debate today about the industrial production index data in our country, with a drop of more than 11%. In addition, if we put it in perspective, Galicia has the worst data from autonomous communities; it has the worst inter-annual data, but it also has the worst data from the evolution of this 2019. Great successes of the People's Party's Business Implementation Law! Today, therefore, we make a call to responsibility from the BNG. We understand that we have to put ourselves in the expectation that on July 1 there will be some plant that remains without buyers or buyers, so we understand that we have to have foresight capacity, which mechanisms activate if that is so. This moment requires putting all alternatives on the table, and when we say all, we say all, also the possibility of public procurement, as we have already defended in this House. I am obliged to quote here again that report which has been prepared by the University of Coruña at the bodies of the Galaga Interunion Confederation. I know it gives a bit of an allergy in these rows, but the truth is that at this time there were those who were not doing their work, who went to Galician Union, and there were those who were standing on the street and activating all possible mechanisms, which were union forces, laborers and workers. Therefore, we have the support of that report and we have the support of reality; of the reality of Community law, which allowed a similar operation in the case of Portovesme, in Italy - in fact a case with the same company - and we also have the very support of the sacred Spanish Constitution, which at other times do not tire of quoting in this same House. So we understand that we are at a time of urgency and that we have to lift the veto to any alternative like this, because we have a responsibility for employment, because we have a responsibility for maintaining the industrial wrist of a country that cannot afford to live on hospitality and tourism, and because it is a strategic industry. So, today since the BNG, what we are defending is a very clear question: defending in front of the Central Government that there has to be an alternative for Coruña to accept any purchase of Alcoa; that we have to make changes in the energy frame in those pauses of interruptability immediately, but also in the framework in general, and there our country has to have a role; and finally that the veto is lifted to the possibility of public intervention. Therefore, Junta must address the Central Government and tell him that, if the time comes and if necessary, he must acquire Alcoa Coruña publicly to prevent him from closing, in a transitional way, to find a buyer who meets a dignified exit for these workers and workers. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u188	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u189	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. A few days ago, there was a spokesperson from the People's Party on Weddings. The truth is, seeing the headlines of the press about what's happening in Madrid between VOX and the People's Party, after the engagement of Columbus Square, are like talking about your weddings. They're like talking about weddings! [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] I understand it bothers them, shames them, believes that this way...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u190	Silence! One moment, I was just with the regulation in my hand, reading something here, and I didn't want to have to draw attention. So, see if we can have a quiet debate. Please! You are in the use of the word Mr. Losada, don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u191	I didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u192	No, no. Please...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u193	I wasn't the one who started talking about weddings.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u194	...we don't warm up the environment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u195	If the Socialist Party can marry Podemos, the People's Party can marry VOX. Let them marry, let them go from the honeymoon and be very happy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u196	Talk about Alcoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u197	I can't be more conciliator, of course.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u198	Talk about Alcoa, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u199	It's obvious that they're upset, which...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u200	Silence! Talk about Alcoa, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u201	This morning another spokesperson from the People's Party was talking about the empirical correlation, and I want to talk about it a little bit. I want to talk about the loss of industrial jobs and the loss of industrial activity that is taking place in Galicia, far above Spain. And since I don't believe in a conspiracy theory in which the Government of Spain attacks indiscriminately by land, sea and air this autonomous community, because I don't believe it, because there are other autonomous communities... I know that it could be partisan sectarianism, but as there are other autonomous communities governed by the People's Party that, of course, have no such results, I believe that the distinguishing element, essentially, is the industrial policy of this Government; industrial policy and economic policy. Today there were data from the Galego Institute of Statistics, I am not from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which deepens in what we have been reporting for years: as in the pie of Greek wealth, more and more weight is lost in wages — and industrial wages are probably the fundamental livelihood of any country's wage structure — compared to the whole of Spain. In Galicia, since the beginning of the crisis, 4 points of GDP have been lost in terms of wages — 4.1 points of GDP — while in Spain as a whole they earn 0.9, almost 1 point of GDP. I'd like someone from the People's Party to intervene to explain this to us. I've been talking about this for several months, but the truth is, at last, I'm not very successful. I guess I'm lacking capacity... I don't know, pedagogic, I want to think. This is a problem, indeed, where the Government of Spain has much to say, I have no doubt, I will not hide the responsibility it has in regulating the central government's electricity market, but I also want to remember the situation that left the People's Party in terms of the electricity market, because if it does not seem that the day of creation, in the earthly paradise, was exactly 2 June 2018, and, unfortunately, the People's Party ruled from 2011 to 2018, and we already know what the results were: removal of the targets of climate change; a very strong attack on renewables — before we were talking about Isolux, and the crisis of Isolux is directly related to this issue in terms of wind — although the voices of the People's Party are seeking technological position on renewables; million claims to Spain, almost 5,000 million euros, by affected investors; an objective increase in the average price of energy in these years, although the people's voices are trying to disguise it here, and it is that large benefits; And, unfortunately, in the last year, May 2018-May 2019, the price of energy in Spain has fallen by 12%. So that's the situation. Mrs. Novoa, finally, it's data from the Iberian electricity market. I don't know if maybe at the University of San Cibrao das Viñas have others, but I literally handle those that I can handle.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u202	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u203	Listen, see if I have to listen here to talk about Vigo as if it were the Holy Spirit, and I can't talk about Saint Cibraus of the Vines!... Come on, but it's just...! I reiterate geographical equality. [[Applause]] And, of course, it bothers me very much when I give official data and if they question me. In fact, it bothers me when I give official data and they question me, above all, why they never give official data. And that's all right! That's good! [[Murmurs.]] In relation to the theme of the pox... please! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u204	Quiet. You're right. It bothers the honourable Member. Even bothers me! Then more intervention will come and I know. I know this, I know how it goes. Then, please, a little silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u205	Thank you. In fact, on the subject of interruptability and on the subject of thrusts there are problems that would have to be solved, I repeat. And we, if the BNG voicer after its systematic self-amendment allows us to vote for points — with affection and appreciation in staff and politics — as good Social Democrats will support all points. Hey, please! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u206	Silence! Yeah, yeah, he's right. There's some concern in the matter today.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u207	Yes, yes, it seems that losing the election to the People's Party is disturbing him, and much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u208	Everyone, man, everybody. That's bad for everyone. [[Laughter]] Now you haven't found anything new about it. That's it. Mr. Losada, go and finish. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u209	I'm going to finish. CNMC said it expressed certain reservations about the possibility that the European competition authorities would accept this amendment. We believe that the Government of Spain has to fight it, no doubt. And I repeat again that we are going to support that part of the Galician Nationalist Block initiative. But what we also want to denounce is the moral breakdown of President Feijóo, the difference of the President of the Asturias Community, telling potential buyers that the Spanish energy market is a perfect disaster. Remind me of the "fall Spain, we'll lift it up already," or the most serious of "fucking" the unemployed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u210	Thank you, Mr. Losada. For the Group of Parliament in Marea, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u211	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Losada, the Spanish electric market is not a disaster, it's a spolian, it's a little different. But the reality is, in fact, you're right. All the electrical legislation that's leading up to these problems has been developed by the People's Party, of course, but you're making it worse by that is the reality. [[Murmurs.]] Really, the pause you published a few weeks ago seems like a real provocation, it seems like a real provocation. They removed 5 blocks of 40 megawatts that have names and names; 2 of Alcoa-Avilés, 2 of Alcoa-Coruña, and 1 of what they keep there... the justification was, as they won't be able to push out of both Alcoa, Avilés and Coruña, because we took off their blocks. But it's four and they took five. We think that the fifth also has a name, and it's called Ferroatlantic, it seems that you already give for fact that the two furnaces stopped from Ferroatlantic will never work again, and that can't be, and that's what you'll have to guarantee the Government of Galicia if you finally produce the sale of the company to the U.S. investment fund behind the power plant. The reality is that after all they are promises: they promised the electrointensive status; they promised the 200 million euros of compensation for the indirect costs of C02 emissions, but surprisingly having a deadline, a final date, of June 30, nothing is done, it can't be! The governments in functions, we know this from the left, can make decisions, a few far beyond what they should do. It was seen in the Government by Mr. Rajoy, who, among other things, gave the Ence sixty more years. But you're a measure of this kind, given that it was already approved, executing it isn't so complicated. But that 200 million euros of C02, I say, looks like a provocation. As they left the new pause, it doesn't solve the problem either, it solves only 40% of the problem, and the other 60% of the problem has to be solved. First, there would be no problem with leaving 5 blocks with reservation suspended. That would be legal, that would imply that, in case Ferroatlantic had put in place the furnaces and Alcoa had been sold in early July and put in place, at best it would take months and a half or two months to have the electrolytic tanks in operation, in September one could do a second part of the posse, to judge those five blocks and that all these companies could work at one hundred percent of the production. Please transfer it also to Mrs. Ribera, who knows of this much, much more than we do. I read the amendments of the Socialist Party, and they go along the same lines as those that normally pose the People's Party, that is, be the citizenship that pays for these problems, and that can't be. For example, a special fee, if you go against the electric system, you pay the citizens at the end, so it seems right to us, for example, that the pauses come down from the five-and-a-million euros that cost us the 200 million euros that are going to cost us this year between the two six-months, it looks good, and we also feel good that they are being maintained, and we don't agree with the BNG proposal. We think that would be a cost of regulating the acceptable system, which is the same, more or less, as in other European countries. But what can't be is that everything else is putting on. Putting the 200 million people who come from taxes and putting the rest on a special fee that would pay the rest of the industry. That is, everyone in our homes and the rest of our companies. Where to go? Where to go is the one who lowers the wholesaler price, we've been saying it for three years. Finally, in the previous Industry Committee last week, the Socialist Party and the People's Party agreed not to consider establishing but to study. Let's see if you really study, because that's the solution to the problem. If hydraulic production and nuclear production are forced to sell the price charged for 20 years, given that they are already amortised, and there is no possibility that there is another company that wants to compete, because no more nuclear power plants will be made or more high-level hydraulic power plants will be made, the European Union has already approved it, it is approved, and that would lower the price of the megawatt hour in at least twenty euros, and that would be the solution, and neither would the citizens nor the rest of the companies pay the electricity. They wouldn't really pay for it, we'd just take away those two billion euros a year of fallen profits from the sky, of which five hundred million people pay for alcohol, iron and steel, Celsa, etc. That would truly be the future for our industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u212	Thank you, Mr. Casal. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u213	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. From the People's Party of Galicia and from the German Government that supports our parliamentary majority, of course, we share fully the concern of the workers of Alcoa, as well as of all the workers of the Galician electrointensive industry, because one cannot have faith, one cannot have confidence, in a Government that is permanently lacking in his word. That's the reality. We share their concern because they are not meeting their basic premises, both for Alcoa and for the rest of the intensive industry. The first is to have an electro-intensive consumer status which guarantees a price of stable electricity and a price of competitive electricity. And secondly, to offer an integral solution to Coruña and Avilés. You can't admit any more excuses from the Government of Spain and you can't come to defend yourself, from the Socialist Party, which is indefensible, Mr. Losada, and you know it. That's why he turned to a thousand fireworks to talk about everything but Alcoa, to talk about everything but the Government of Spain. They assume the responsibility they acquired the day they pushed a motion of censure to rule Spain, they assume that responsibility! [[Applause]] You can't admit any more excuses; it's not acceptable for the government to play with the workers, that's what they're doing; it's not acceptable for the government to play with the workers and perform electoral calculations, summoning the post to the next day of the municipal elections, or announcing the presentation and approval of an electrotensive industry statute the day before the reflection day and then not doing so. You can't play with the workers electorally. Look, the solution must be to achieve a stable electric price, both for Alcoa and for the rest of the intensive industry, and it's 5,000 jobs that depend on this in our community. Therefore, Mr. Losada, I regret that one of your last speeches in this House agrees to do what you have just done. I'm not going to debate when it was the origin of the times. It seems to you that it was the day when Pedro Sánchez bought the mattress in Ikea, not for us. The origin of the times lies in the tariff deficit that left a socialist government, 30 billion euros, the Government of Rodríguez Zapatero. By the way, that Government had approved the budgets of the few Members of the Galician Nationalist Block, that is the reality. [[Applause]] Mr. Losada, I regret that one of your last speeches in this House is to make use of this pseudo-intellectual sovereignty. I don't know if there's a university in San Cibrao, I know there's a university in Vigo. Of course, the University of San Cibrao got 69% of the vote in the municipal elections, I think you're a little less than 66%. Be a little humble, be a little modest. Be a little humble, be a little modest. [[Murmurs.]] The arrival of the IPI in Galicia does not provoke the law of business implementation, no, no, who causes it is the Government of Sánchez. Read the data and study the data. What does the fall depend on? Energy and metallurgy, yes or no? Yes. Yes. [[Murmurs.]] So, does it depend on the law of corporate implementation? No, no, no, no. It depends on decisions made by the Government of Pedro Sánchez, Mr. Losada. Look, we're surprised by the amendment of the Greek socialists, very surprised, I'd say. You're surprised because you're proposing very reasonable things, which we agree with, but these are things we've been claiming in recent months in this House. You guys are looking for excuses. You come to practice unprecedented political cynicism. Then it's true that BNG's industrial policy is always surprising, because they live in permanent contradiction. For you there are first-time workers, second-time workers; workers who must fight for their jobs and workers who must be sent home. That's the reality of the Galician Nationalist Block. Look, you complain bitterly that there is not enough industry in Galicia, but then they protest against all of the industrial projects that want to settle in our community. They complain bitterly when an industry wants to close because it loses, but then they protest every day to shut down those that bring benefits. That's the position of the Galego Nationalist Block, which in industry and employment matters neither eats nor lets eat. That's very good for the Galician Nationalist Block. Look, we're at a time of pacts, negotiations, I suggest that instead of carpeting and kneeling in front of the Socialist Party, you demand something to give the governments. I think that would be very good. It would be nice if you guys were walking in this direction. I want to make a clear proposal. We agree to call for the immediate approval of the Statute of the Intensive Industry, yes or no? Yes, we agree. Look, why don't you condition the support of the Galician Nationalist Block to the Socialist Party next Saturday at the city councils' investment sessions, where you intend to support the Socialist Party mayors who didn't win the elections, even mayors who last Saturday didn't go to the Alcoa demonstration? [[Murmurs.]] Why do they not condition their support on the Saturday on which the Socialist Government, at the Council of Ministers, approves the Statute of the Intensive Industry? That's the amendment I propose. [[Murmurs.]] You show that by your vote... you prove, ladies and gentlemen of the BNG, that by your vote you want to be useful to Galicia and you don't want to be the useful fool of the Socialist Party. [[Applause]] Do you want to be useful to Galicia? [[Applause]] They condition their support for socialists on Saturday, to which Friday, at the Council of Ministers, is approved... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u214	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u215	...the Statute of the Intensive Industry, and for once nationalism in Galicia will be useful for someone, for street people, and not for militants... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u216	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u217	...of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u218	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u219	Rinse because you're the ones who just handed in...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u220	Thank you, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u221	...is an empty check on the Socialist Party to rule by losing. That's what you're doing very well...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u222	It's over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u223	...have experience in your own group...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u224	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u225	...of how to be mayors being the least voted group in municipal elections.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u226	Thank you. Your time is up. Your time is up, Mr. Tellado! [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. [[Applause]] They're not listening anymore. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Your time is up. [[Applause]] Thank you. Mr. Tellado, your time is up, please! [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Your time is up. [[Applause]] Two minutes! [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Then we all protest over time! [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Presas, for the author group of the non-legislative proposal. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Rest! Please! Quiet! It's over!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u227	Don't start cutting time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u228	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We have to put it to zero. Calm down! Quiet, everyone, please. Three minutes. [[Murmurs.]] Okay, let's hear it. We all have to be able to go. Here it's for everyone. [[Murmurs.]] Go ahead, Mrs. Presas. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u229	Mr. Tellado, I see you a little upset about the issue of pacts. I don't know if it's the result of the People's Party, I don't know if it's because it's aggrieved that as the general secretary of the People's Party doesn't ask too much about the pacts of Ourense and they're doing what they want... I don't know exactly what the reason is. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] But since the BNG we have more peace of mind than you and more concern and seriousness about this matter, because I will try to focus on it. Well, I thank the spokesman of En Marea for his constructive intervention and Mr. Losada for not inviting me to this systematic request for patience, because he already knows that at this point we have been exhausted. In any case, we don't mind voting on points. Now, we want to insist on a reflection: there are 19 days left, and what happens next July 1 will be fundamental to our country. So we ask you, as well as the political organizations that eventually form a government in Madrid with you, the height of attention and seriousness also with this country, and that the time comes to demand what is to be demanded. That crazy nonsense that we are asking for in this initiative, which would be to develop a perfectly legal mechanism that other European countries have applied and that collects that Constitution that you both praise and venerate day and night, will have to be, but of course, we hope they do not comply with less, because it is no communism, it is common sense, you are not asking for anything from the other world. Then, as for the intervention of the People's Party lord, more of the same, Mr. Tellado, more of it! I'll read you a lot but little commitment. Tomorrow, near you will be sitting the president of the Galician board, while our parliamentary spokesperson asks about the crisis of industry in this country, and there will be workers and workers concerned and concerned about their future. I hope that there will be an exception and that Mr. President of Galicia will be up to it — not as you have been now — and that he will offer an alternative and say that he will exercise the German Government and that he will demand firm answers to our industry. Because your policy of throwing balloons out was gasoline to set this problem on fire, you know it perfectly; not only what they did in the past, but also what they are not doing in the present. And that's the point, Mr. Tellado. You can come here and talk about anything but Alcoa -- you can do it -- but, of course, it will weigh on the People's Party's consciousness, because, after all, there is a part of the criticism that you've made here that we share and that I myself developed in my exhibition, but there's a difference, that you're just throwing balloons out while here we've come with alternatives and proposals. [[Murmurs.]] The question is, are you going to vote tomorrow? [[Murmurs.]] Once again, I imagine you'll fail to assume any new commitments. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] So, of course, before, when I came here, they shouted, "Shut up, shut up."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u230	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u231	...is it impossible to talk to you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u232	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u233	...even when we have the speaking shift! It's impossible! There is no way, but it will remain above your conscience.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-11-DSPG118.u234	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[Murmurs.]] In the end, we have to go to the vote by points. Do you offer you a point vote, Mrs. Presas? Thank you. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantiños: Yes.]] The amendment, then, no... okay. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. We'll stop the session until ten o'clock tomorrow.
