ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u1	Good morning. Let's start the session with questions to the president. I would first like to greet the students of 1st bachelor's degree from the Puga Ramón center of the Coruña, as well as their companions and all the guests we have in the gallery of Parliament. Good morning and welcome to Parliament. Question by D. Luís Villares Naveira, G.P. of En Marea on the assessment of the situation and results of the employment policies of the Italian Government
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u2	Mr. Villares has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez, we want to talk about unemployment today precisely, when this week's unemployment data came out of April, a month of high occupation precisely caused by the seasonality of the Holy Week. This is what we want to highlight, the seasonality of employment, which reveals symptoms of great weakness and great dependence on seasonality of specific periods, such as summer periods or Holy Week. But even seeing the figures in absolute terms, the balance of their government time cannot be at all positive, to the extent that we have, since you started ruling, 90,000 people less working in Galicia, 90,000 less occupied in Galicia, despite the fact that the number of unemployed fell into 7,000 people. This reveals that since you rule, there are 97,000 fewer people in active employment in Galicia. So it's a dramatic situation in a country that shows that it loses population continuously. Moreover, the job created is a job that is based on seasonality and precariousness. For one thing, the first form of precariousness is temporality. Since 2014 60% of the job created is temporary, and therefore of people who are not sure of working in the next month, people who are not sure what their working conditions are going to be. In 2014, 21% of work was temporary, and today it's 26%. But it's not the only way, or it's not the only symptom, of precariousness, so is bias. At this point, 79,000 people work part-time when they want to do it full-time. The example of Bosch workers in the telemarketing sector — particularly in the Vigo area — is a paradigmatic example of people who would like to work full-time and yet market conditions do not allow them. In the sector, too, there are about 14,000 people who work as unemployed—only in the primary sector and at sea—and they want to work all year long and they can't do so. This is the triple cartography of work precariousness: those who have a temporary contract, those who work part-time and those who do not work, and those who do not, of course, discontinuous, add up to those people who can't work. This is the result of the productive model in Galicia, a government policy which, rather than being employment policy, is a policy without employment, with a lack of absolutely obvious industrial policy and, in addition, a lack of R & D bet, which generates high value added posts. And in this context, the question to ask is what are the employment policies of your Government. That's what we'd like to ask you today. Last year's budget execution data, 2018, are already public, and they return to reveal the evidence of every year: that they are left without spending tens, hundreds, millions of euros. Specifically in 2018, 120 million euros were left unspent, specifically in the areas of improvement and promotion of employability, job promotion, the unemployed FP and the employed FP. And we would like to know why, with this situation of precarious work, of temporality, of discontinuous fixeds, of people who work part-time, with a lack of quality in employment, depending on seasonality, the Government of Greece did not spend, during 2018, 120 million euros that it had planned to improve the conditions of employment of the Galicians and the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u4	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u5	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Mr Villares, indeed, there was Holy Week in April. Not in all autonomous communities if the job was the same. And by giving it a given, an autonomous community like Balearics — which is undoubtedly one of the drivers of tourism in Spain — simply reduced unemployment by 800 people. However, in Galicia we were among the first autonomous communities to decrease unemployment in April. So, Your Honor, allow me a little bit of seriousness in covering the problem of unemployment and the evolution of unemployment. Look at this headline: "Eight Spanish regions have a higher rate than twice the Community average." And the following headline: "Galice leaves the group of regions with a rate of unemployment which doubles the Community average." This is a good summary, Your Honor. All the autonomous communities that are above double the unemployment rate of the community media are governed by the Socialist Party and the left. You in some of them participate in the government. Allow me, therefore, to realise exactly what the correct data of unemployment is. Look, the unemployment rate is better in Galicia than in any of the autonomous communities where he rules on the left except in one in Aragon. GDP per capita in Galicia has the largest growth in history in the last decade. And with this I think you'd have answered your question. The largest increase in per capita wealth in the last decade of all autonomous communities is in Galicia. In recorded unemployment — and I'm surprised that you're talking to me about this — we're the autonomous community, in which we've been in the past year, with the greatest decrease. In affiliations, 21,175 affiliates more in the last 12 months. And in homes with all the busy members, growing 3.7%. Your Honor, at EPA unemployment rate we are 2.3 points below the average of all autonomous communities in Spain, and Galicia has a lower unemployment rate, I insist, than all the communities where the Socialist Party governs. In per capita GDP, per capita wealth in Galicia narrows its distance with Spain, we exceed 23,000 euros per kilometre, and we are the autonomous community with the best behaviour since I am president of the Galician Union, from 2009 to 2019. In Galicia we increased our per capita wealth in 9.7%; and in Spain total, 6.5%. [[Applause]] If we want to look at the registered unemployment data, I repeat that we are the autonomous community where unemployment is lower in the last year. In Galicia it is 8.8% and in Spain it is 5.2%. There are 21,175 more members of Social Security, and the first quarter EPA in homes with all active members growing to 600,000 homes. On the quality of employment — and you also gave some data — we have 31,800 more indefinite jobs in the last year. Three out of four Greek employees have an indefinite job, 74.2%. In full-time employment, in the last year, full-time jobs increased by 14,100, and nine out of 10 people in Galicia has a full-time job, 90%. If you want to talk about costs, we can talk too. Wage costs in Galicia are evolving above the state average.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u7	That's why I'm surprised, Your Honor, that you come here with these kinds of questions. Besides, you come here as if you had no responsibility. You still don't know that they've been governing economic policies and labour policies in Spain for ten years? You still don't know? Sorry, ten months. [[Murmurs.]] Home!, if you were ten years old, you can imagine that these unemployment data would be impossible. [[Laughter]] That's obvious, Mr. Villares! [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Villares, you agree to close Reganosa, close Meirama, close The Bridges, close Ence and do not let PSA-Peugeot-Citroën expand in Vigo. Do you know how many jobs this is supposed to be? 27,000 jobs. But they're about to get, indeed, to close Alcoa, to close Ence, that Navantia has no work until 2022 and that closes Meirama. Yes, Mr. Villares, this is your co-responsibility. Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u8	Thank you. Mr. Villares' reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u9	Look, industrial employment in Galicia you know a lot, because since your government has been lost in Galicia 40,000 industrial jobs. The data are quite eloquent, and those who have responsibilities for that data are also quite clear, because, since success is imputed, failures must also be attributed, such as that of ten years of loss of employment in the industrial sector. You talk about the wealth by Greek, and I started talking about the number of Greeks. Indeed, there are 97,000 less active people since you're ruling, but, if that's worrying, the more worrying it is to still pick up segmentally that population that is no longer working. The youth aged 16-19 as an active population group working, since you rule, is 71.42% lower. From 23,800 to 6,800 girls who are currently working. In the age range of 20-24 years, since you rule, the fall is 60% — this is a reduction of 66,900 people. And for the age group between 25 and 35 years the fall is 36%; i.e. 127,000 assets less. Therefore, the active population between 16 and 34 years old, which is the present, but is also the future, not only for labour but also for the country's demographic and viability effects, has fallen to 210,000 people according to EPA data updated in the first quarter of 2019. The question is whether with this data you are justified in leaving 120 million euros unspent for employment policies. That's the question we came to ask you today: Is it justified that you stop spending that money? The data you gave are enough for you to leave without spending 120 million euros? Besides, it's not the only data, it's not a timely situation. Last year, in the budget run of 2017, the situation was very similar; in fact, in 2018, in relation to the execution of 2017, some execution data worsened. It worsens in 2018 the improvement in employability promotion — no longer running 56% to 51%—. It also worsened in 2018 the money for the unemployed FP — from 49% to 48% —. That, yes, you've improved — a great improvement! — the FP of busy, from 7% to 16%; that is, at a rate of 7% a year, it would take us twelve years to run 100% of the budget. Look, I'm just gonna finish up making a proposal. With regard to this money you left out, EUR 67 million of these 120 are directly for the FP for the unemployed and to improve the employability of those who already have it. There are two sectors that are demanding, within industrial employment, the improvement of their working conditions, and it is done both in the Ferrol River, in the shipbuilding and in the construction of the marine wind, where there are no qualified personnel to meet the new demands of the Starry 4.0 and the marine wind, as in the Vigo Space, the Vigo River, in the metropolitan area, with the entire automotive sector, which is demanding for the unmanned car, the autonomous vehicle, and the hybrid vehicle new formations in the FP that are not currently taking place in real time. I propose that you dedicate these EUR 67 million to the formation of FP of unemployed and busy people so that they can be absorbed by this labour market that does not now find professional because of their lack of employment policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u10	Thank you. Close the question by Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u11	I wouldn't have priced you as a work advisor. On the one hand, he says we've destroyed industrial employment and on the other, he says there's not enough people to work in the naval sector and in the automotive sector. It's amazing, Mr. Villares! You've got a payroll in the field of employment! [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Villares, see if you agree on something; at least agree with yourself. Because it would be important to move forward and speak seriously about the serious themes of Galicia. You're talking about destroying industrial employment. The industrial production index of Galicia in 2018, the last close, is the double of Spain, the double of Spain! As for the exports of the Greek companies, we have taken six years of historical record of exports; we have spent year after year increasing the exports of the previous year. And our balance of payments has exceeded over the past four or five years. Mr. Villares, we have a healthy industrial job, we have a healthy growth, we have a healthy economy and we have historical exports. That's why, Mr. Villares, I'm surprised you're here to give industrial employment classes. [[Applause]] You come again to confuse people -- intentionally, because you can't be so clumsy -- with the active population. He says the number of busy boys decreases. Of course, indeed, we have fewer boys in Galicia. And we have fewer young people in Galicia because fewer young people are born in Galicia, even though younger ones are entering Galicia than they are leaving. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, Mr. Villares! Surprisingly, he hasn't noticed yet. Look, Mr. Villares... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u12	Quiet, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u13	...how do you interpret that we...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u14	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u15	More than 35 years is 87,600 more busy?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u16	Mr. Lake, be quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u17	How do you interpret that? How do you interpret, Your Honor, that when we go up from the age of 35, the number of busy people increases in Galicia? Because the population over 35 is growing and the population under 35 is decreasing. It's because of a birth problem, not because of a job problem, Mr. Villares. [[Murmurs.]] Don't keep intoxicating, because then you get intoxicated. See, the indicators: employment rate from 16 to 64 years in Galicia, 63.8 when I took possession in 2009 and 63.8 in the first quarter of 2019, exactly the same; activity rate from 16 to 64 years — activity rate — 72.6 with the Bipartite and 72.9 now, despite ten years recession. But what kind of lessons do you intend to teach about employment, about industrial production, about industrial jobs, when there is no single indicator that is below the situation that we inherited despite managing the greatest economic recession that has ever raised this autonomy! Look, you don't talk to me about female employment. That doesn't interest you today because we're not in March. When March comes, we talk about the woman's employment, and when May comes, we talk about something else. Today in Galicia there are more women affiliated with Social Security than ever, ever, Your Honor, than ever in the history of Galicia! [[Applause]] That's equality policy, Mr. Villares, that's not using women to make politics, that's working at the disposal of all the Greeks and all the Greeks in Galicia. And finally -- I didn't answer at first because it seemed inappropriate -- follow you on the subject of budget execution, another one, another one! It turns out that we are from the autonomous communities that best run Spain's employment funds, and it turns out that as a result of us running more than the rest of the employment funds, we increase the socialist government by 8.7%, because we are from the communities that best run the employment funds. Andalucia does not execute employment funds, has already executed enough with the false ERE of the Autonomous Community. [[Murmurs.]] But, look, not only do we run the employment funds, but, on the initial budget, even with the rest of the next exercise, we have 317 million euros of budget...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u18	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u19	...in 2018. Do you know how many we run? 84.54%. You think you're running 85% of an employment budget, waiting for grants, waiting for programs to be accredited, isn't it? We're from the autonomous communities that we best run the employment funds. Mr. Villares, look at this, today we have less unemployment than in 2009, we are an autonomous community above the average of the state at EPA rate, we are the autonomous community that has lowered unemployment in the last year, in the last twelve months...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u20	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u21	...we have over 21,000 members of Social Security and indeed, Mr. Villares, we have finally started to have a workload in the naval sector. And now people in the naval sector...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u22	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u23	...you have to work at night.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u24	Thank you, Mr. President, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u25	We're doing more cars than ever, and I hope next year to get over the...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u26	Mr. President, thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u27	...500,000 vehicles in Vigo. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u28	Your time is up. Thank you. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the fulfilment of the mandate of Article 5.3 of the Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia with the language policy of the Government of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u29	You have the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u30	Thank you very much, President. Good morning. "The Galician public authorities will ensure the normal and official use of the two languages, enhance the use of Welsh in all public, cultural and informational life and provide the means to facilitate their knowledge." What I just read to you, Mr. Feijóo, is not the BNG program, that's what the Galician Statute says. And let's see what you've done to fulfill what your obligation is, to comply with the Galician Statute: it suppressed the Welsh test in access to public service; it violates the General Plan of Linguistic Standardization; it reduced the presence of the Greek in teaching and banned its use in mathematics and science; it excluded the Greek 92% of the city's infant schools; it implemented a program in Justice that prevents the use of the Greek in the administration of it; it charged the offer for children and young people of the TVG; it reduced more than 50% of the support for the book sector and drastically reduced the linguistic normalization budgets; it only dedicates 8 million euros, three times less than ten years ago. And you could keep it up for the next three minutes, reporting cuts and measures against the Greek. His linguistic policy is summed up in a great lie: the imposition of the Greek. Then you were a fake news precursor. You weren't talking about them and you were already on your way. And in case someone had any doubts, we can see that's what his program said in the past elections. I don't know if you remember. I would like to remind you: "The only language whose knowledge will be an indispensable requirement for access to public employment will be Spanish. Co-official languages may be considered a merit, never a requirement." By the way, Mr. Feijóo, this is a proposal that you share with Citizens and the far right. But I have one thing to confess to. After last Saturday, that Saturday that we can call "the Sabbath of forgiveness on the woodworker," maybe we have some reason to think that you can change. He did there an act of contrition and proclaimed that from that moment the PP abandons the single thought, abandons intransigence and now they are central. Yes, the doubt, in any case, is whether this act of contrition also includes correcting its policy against the Greek. That is why, Mr Feijóo, if this turn to the centre, it also implies abandoning intransigence against Greek and if it begins to comply with the laws, the Statute, the Law of Linguistic Standardization or the European Charter of Languages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You will understand, Mrs. Pontón, that with regard to intransigence and unique thought I can't give you anything. You have the monopoly of intransigence and single thought. [[Laughter]] But it must be acknowledged that, since that single intransigence and thought, you have cheered me up this morning, because you are talking about fulfilling the Statute of Self-Government, which is an organic law that comes out of the Spanish Constitution. [[Applause]] It's an organic law that we all promise or swear to fulfill and enforce. And there are some, like you, who don't, who do it as a legal imperative. We, by conviction. We believe in the Statute of autonomy and apply it by conviction. You say you will apply the Statute of autonomy as a legal imperative. [[Applause]] In any case, it must be acknowledged, Mrs Pontón, that it is a step forward that you are telling me to comply with the Statute of Self-Government, because in that -- what doubt does it have? -- it also tells me that you are thinking about fulfilling the Constitution. If you persevere on the line of fulfilling the Statute of Self-Government, the votes of Vox in the last general elections will be even exceeded in the next elections. See, in addition to article 5.3 that you have read to me, what do you think if we read article 5 in full? Article 5.1: "The very language of Galicia is Greek." Article 5.2: "The English and Spanish languages are official in Galicia and everyone has the right to know and use them." And "no one can be discriminated against because of the language", Article 5.4. Mrs. Pontón, why read an article paragraph and don't you read the full article? They're boys from a high school. It would be good, Your Honor, if we read the complete articles. [[Applause]] Look, what's the matter, don't you worry about the rest of the paragraphs? Does it not bother you to recognize that Galicia is a territory, a community, a historical, bilingual nationality and that languages are not a problem, but are they a wealth? Look, don't forget that all the laws that protect the Greek were dictated by a Government of the People's Party: the Law of Linguistic Standardization, 1983, with the People's Party and with agreements even with nationalist forces; and the Law of the Lusophony, Act 1/2014, with a Government of the People's Party of what I honour to be part of. That's why, Your Honor, I'm surprised you're telling me about this. It's like, actually, one of these fake news. He says we don't ask the Greek for access to the civil service, and it stays so wide. I mean, teachers don't need to approve Greek, and you stay so wide, that officials don't need to know Greek to work in the Public Service, and you sit down and follow this. [[Murmurs.]] But anyway, I appreciate the question, because I can answer you, Vox and Citizens at once. Because, look, if we were to record this intervention and send it to the leaders of the rest of the political parties that say exactly the opposite, everything would be clarified in Galicia. [[Laughter]] It's true that Vox and Citizens say exactly the opposite of what you say, and you say the opposite of what I'm accused of Vox and Citizens. [[Murmurs.]] But the truth is that they coincide in some things: they invent Galician reality, that we don't like most of the Greeks as we are and that their vows are only useful to the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. It's amazing, Your Honor. Look, we're not going to ask Vox or Citizens or BNG for permission to speak Spanish and speak Greek in Galicia. Don't worry it won't be necessary, Mrs. Pontón. [[Applause]] Look, Galicia is constitutionally a bilingual autonomous community...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u33	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u34	...we're not giving up any of our languages. And so, Mrs. Pontón, point out: in the face of imposition, freedom; in the face of ignorance, knowledge; and in the face of monolinguism, bilingualism. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Pontón's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u36	Mr. Feijóo, to be so focused, I see you a little obsessed with Vox, don't you? Speak of Vox, Vox, Vox... Mr. Feijóo. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Applause]] And, in fact, I imagine that, after you have evaluated the pacts with the extreme right — because you have endorsed them up to this Parliament — you will call your own Andalusian counterpart directly to break their pacts, because it seems the only coherent one. [[Strong murmurers.]] In any case, I'm glad we're past the Bipartite argument and now we have the Vox argument. What we see is you running away from reality and manipulating, or was it not, Mr. Feijóo, one of your first measures, when you came to Galician Union, to change the Civil Service Act to suppress a test of access in Greek? Because that's what I said. It's just that you're a manipulator, and you always manipulate and manipulate all the words. Yes, yes, indeed, for this reason... yes, of course, that's why the public media workers have been working every Friday for a year at the doors, to denounce the manipulation that the public media in this country are subjected to. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And they won't put on a bite for me, they won't put on a bite for me as much as the lords and ladies of the People's Party want. [[Balbordo.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u37	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u38	You've upset Mr. Feijóo to quote him. Anyway, Mr. Feijóo, you this Saturday, on that Saturday of the pardon on the pine oak tree, said exactly that the PP abandoned the unique thought and intransigence. Anyway, if I'm so dejected now... it's normal in you, I'm not surprised either. In any case, he told us to comply with the law and comply with the Statute. And I think you don't know whether you swear it or not, or if you promise it, by conviction. In agreements with Vox I don't know where that statutory conviction is left with those who wanted to delete the Statute. But finally, I read to you what the Autonomy Statute says. And you know, as I know, that the problem with this country is that there are lots of people who discriminate against it is when they use Greek. And you look the other way and you're an accomplice. And he's so complicit, Mr. Feijóo, that in his resume he's been the president who most attacked the Greek language. [[Applause]] And he not only attacked the Greek language. He's one of the responsible for the retreat that's taking place in our own language. Because, look, you've always spoken more Greek than Basque. But do you know what the difference between the Greek and the Basque is today? That, as the Euskera advances, Greek is the only language in the state that loses speakers. And this is your direct responsibility. [[Murmurs.]] Look, the Royal Academy itself, in one of its latest reports, says that the Decree of Plurilingualism has broken the tendency to improve the presence of the Greek in the classroom and its formal and informal use. RAG says that the population with Greek as the initial language fell 20 points in just two decades in the country. He claims that the involution suffered since 2010 places the presence of the Greek in school in the indexes of the ninety, twenty years of backwardness. And the very official studies of the Galego Institute of Statistics...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u39	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u40	...I suppose you know him, Mr. Feijóo, they say today there are 22 percent of boys and girls in Galicia claiming they don't know anything or almost anything in English. I don't know if you know what the Language Standardization Act says. If you like, one day we'll read the article by article. I'm going to tell you today the mandate set out in the article...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u41	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u42	...—and finished, Mr President—
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u43	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u44	If I may, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u45	Silence! Yes, stop, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u46	Article 14.3: "The educational authorities of the Autonomous Community shall ensure that, at the end of their cycles in which Greek education is compulsory, pupils know this at their oral and written levels, in equality with Spanish". The Galego Institute of Statistics says you're failing to do it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u47	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u48	And we're asking you to derogate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u49	Thank you, Mr. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u50	...the decree, now that it is centered...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u51	Thank you. Your time is up. Thanks, time's up. Close the question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u52	Pleased to meet you, Your Honor. I thank you for reading a law passed by the People's Party of Galicia, the Law of linguistic normalization. I am surprised that you discuss a decree also passed by a Government of the People's Party of Galicia which has been sanctioned by all the judicial bodies that exist, all of them!, by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia and by the rest of the national and even international authorities. You're talking about the Royal Galician Academy. Well, we agree. Cito: "The unquestionable vitality of the Greek: 73% of the population usually uses the Greek." 73% usually uses it. We're still talking about that report, which you don't want to read. Because you read a paragraph in the report but you don't read the full report. It's the same trap you made with the Statute, read a paragraph of an article and don't read the article in its entirety. Look, it says, "Level of oral understanding practically total; nine out of ten are considered able to speak it; eight out of ten, able to read it; and six out of ten, able to write it." It's a good news," said the Royal Academy. If you want to go to the INE... you tell me about the Euskera. Look, in Galicia 89% of the Greeks we know about the Greek; in Catalonia it is 85% who know the Catalan; and in Euskadi, 55%, 55%, lordship! [[Strong murmurers.]] As before, Your Honor! I'm giving the latest data from the National Institute of Statistics. Was it before? Before what? Before he ruled the PP or later and during the time that he ruled the PP, if we have been ruling in Galicia — because the Greeks so decide — for quite a long time? [[Applause]] The IGE, Your Honor, we're going to the IGE 2015. He says, since we've arrived at the PP, we don't know English. Well, in 2008, when I was in the Bipartite, I knew to speak English 96.8%; and in 2013, 97.4%. Since we've been here, since 2009 it's 1.7% more. They know how to write English, when there was the Bipartite, 81%; now, 83.5%. And he says he wants to stay to read. We read, Mrs Pontón, but, you know, why haven't we seen this House read, so we can continue to make progress in the right conclusions? Ask me about certain political parties. Look, Your Honor, if I ever had to share a paper from my party with the Republican Left of Catalonia and Bildu, I wouldn't teach anybody a moderation lesson. No one, Mrs. Pontón! [[Applause]] There is nothing older than asking for a vote on behalf of Galicia for the Republican Bildu and Left of Catalonia. There's nothing more ancient in Galicia's history. [[Applause]] You asked before the vote, on behalf of the Greeks, for PNV and Convergence and Union. You know what happened to Convergence and Union. Well, now ask for the vote for Bildu and the Republican Left of Catalonia, and you come to give lessons in moderation. [[Batasuna]] But if it's obvious that you're very much in line with Vox. Besides having the same votes in Galicia, they have a lot in common. You and Vox spend the whole day criticizing the Galician People's Party. They don't want a Spanish nation, you know, and they don't want Galician autonomy. Some say that Spain steals us and others say that autonomy steals us, it's done in coincidence. Others use the Constitution depending on when they're interested, on the convenience. Some say there's a language that's discriminated against and punished by Feijóo, and that's where they all agree. Actually, the BNG say there's a language punished and persecuted by Feijóo and the VOX say there's a language punished and persecuted by Feijóo. What's going on is that you say it's the English and Vox's, the Spanish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u53	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u54	They should at least not match so much, because if they don't, it makes me feel like the smart Greeks give the same votes to Vox as to the BNG. And that's bad for Galicia, Your Honor. Spanish monolinguism and German monolinguism cannot be imposed. I can assure you that this is a serious mistake.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u55	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u56	Look, Your Honor, yes, they all agree that both Vox and BNG are strong allies of a Spanish Socialist Workers' Party government. No one can argue with that. Don't take your hands off your head, they rule in all institutions with the PSOE, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u57	Finish, please. Thank you, President. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u58	Yes, the BNG, the BNG! And do you know why they don't rule anymore? Because the People's Party draws an absolute majority. Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u59	Silence! [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo asks for the floor.]] What do you want the word for, Mrs. Pontón?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u60	On the basis of Article 76.3. Who rules with Vox is the People's Party, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u61	You don't have the floor. It's not... No, no... [[Strong murmurers.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is political confrontation. No, no, Mr. Losada, you don't get into this. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] That's political confrontation. No one was insulted. Silence! [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Your time is up. Mr. Losada, your time is up. Political confrontation! [[Strong murmurers.]] Mr. Losada, please, that you are already in the last rounds, please! Silence! A little calm, a little quiet! [[Laughter]] Let's go easy! Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga of G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the balance of the policies of the Greek Government in the area of territorial balance
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u62	Whenever you want, Mr. Leicega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u63	Mr. Núñez Feijóo, point 9 of his contract with Galicia of the year 2009 is entitled "Territorial Balance". Ten years later, the result of his government action was that the internal imbalances in Galicia did nothing but increase. The last report of the Institute of Territorial Studies, which depends on you, so believe it. He says there's a Galicia, let's say, in slow motion, but there's a Galicia going back. And I want to talk to you about this one. We have 28 districts that have seen in the ten years of their mandate — on average — fall the population by 15% — out of all provinces. But some comarcas, particularly in the province of Ourense — the Land of Caldelas — or in Pontevedra — The Paradanta — have lost 30% of its population in these ten years, 30%, Mr. Núñez Feijóo! This empty Galicia — let's add ourselves to fashion — which is endangered by its policies, also has an extremely complicated future. The projections of the Galego Institute of Statistics, which depends on the Board, tell us that in the next fifteen years it will lose the total of these provinces, these districts, 20 percent of its population additionally. But some, like Viana, The Low Limit, Celanova, Anchores, Ortegal, the Land of Sleep, a lot more than that 20%. And it's a Galician seniors, pensioners, where the number of social security contributors is smaller than or equal to the number of pensioners. It's a Galician that has twenty points of distance in income in relation to the half of Galician income per inhabitant. And that has lost with you these years the triple of jobs that the average of Galicia, the triple! In this Galicia only children are born: in the Land of Caldelas, ten in the last year; in the Land of Trives or in the region of the Founce, fourteen — a little better —. And when they are born, they can see that some schools close and have more difficulties in school; that, when they have to go to school, they have difficulties in school transportation; that, in order to socialize in the leisure of cities, urban services are too far away and lack adequate transportation; that, when they reach adulthood, they have no possibility of finding employment in these areas, or, if they want to start, they know that they have difficulties in communication infrastructures, that wifi does not work, that there are difficulties in finding specialized professionals in these areas. And even the reorganization of the health areas, which you have recently approved, introduces uncertainty about the quality of health services in the coming years. Indeed, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, in many comarcas the only industry that works well is the tantor industry. And this quick description coincides with what the territorial Institute of Studies does in the last evaluation of the guidelines. You're going to tell me you're doing your best, you're lowering taxes, you're launching some measures. We do not oppose improving the tax conditions of this emptied Galicia. What we're telling you is that's not enough. We prefer to look at the results, and the results are eloquent. Neither the Plan Impress Lugo, or Impress Ourense, which you pushed at the moment, gave results. Do we have a balance today? Can you tell us something about this? Igape's loans don't even reach companies located in these areas. How many Igape loans have been given to companies in these areas in the last three years? Neither the public investments of the Galician Union have a favorite destination in these provinces. And if you want, we'll talk about some data later. It takes decision-making and perseverance, it takes planning -- it's the Institute of Territory Studies -- and professionalism, it's necessary to place basic services, infrastructures...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u64	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u65	...public investment, support for entrepreneurial initiatives, attracting investments, at the heart of the territorial rebalancing policy in Galicia. It is not possible to reverse the situation in the medium and long term. We need to be modest, but it's possible to reverse the situation. Some European territories have succeeded. I'm just asking you to abandon those policies that are not effective, to learn what other territories do and to put this into effect in Galicia, because this backstage Galicia can't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u66	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u67	...to lose, above all, hope. We have to give him hope to have a complete Galicia in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u68	Thank you, Mr. Leicega. Thank you very much. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Leicega. I appreciate your presentation. It is true that I am curious that a current member of the Socialist Party speaks of territorial balance. I suppose this could be the beginning of a change in the policies of the Socialist Party, in the case of forming a government in Spain. Because, really, that a sensible socialist like you is talking about territorial balance from the sides of the Socialist Party is, at least, surprising. Let me read the demonstrations of the Socialist Party's number two: "The government recognizes and reverses the infrastructure deficit of recent years." We thought this was going to come to the communities of the northwest, or to Aragon, or to Asturias, or to Cantabria or Castile. No, and adds: "Real investment for Catalonia is expected to increase by 57% and exceeds EUR 1,875 million" — end of quote. Result: increase in investment in Catalonia, 60%; decrease in investment in Galicia, 30%. Let's keep going. For fulfilling commitments to the Central Government as a Solvent Autonomous Community and having to comply with the spending rule and consequently stop spending EUR 130 million, the answer was: You can't spend it, or — which is even more surprising — and I can't tell you. We brought a law into this House and what is surprising is that nationalist forces, forces that say they want to have representation in the Government of Spain, and the Socialist Party does not vote in favour, abstain. With abstentions, laws are not approved, ladies and gentlemen. Do you abstain from getting new schools, modernized schools, more equipment, more social services and more health? But finally, the territorial balance is to raise taxes to 85% of the Greeks through diesel. 85% of the Greeks have diesel cars. I suppose it won't be because you're rich, Your Honor, but because you can't buy a gas car; above all you can't keep it. That's right, the Socialist Party's number two points out: What's opposed to this rise in taxes wants democracy to be loaded. Well, now it seems that the Socialist Party is going to rectify. Welcome, Mr. Leicega to the rectification! But, look, since I'm president, year after year, the budget of the Galician Union is higher in Lugo and Ourense than in the Atlantic provinces. Let me give you the data from the last one. Lugo and Ourense have a per capita investment of 28% above the average; the largest increase in per capita expenditure in Lugo and Ourense — in Lugo, 7%, and in Ourense, 7.7% —. Lugo and Ourense have 30% of the total budget, and yet they have 24% of the population. Let's keep going. Of the 221 kilometers we made high-capacity routes, half, for Lugo and Ourense, with 24% of the population. Children's homes: 61 houses — and will reach 77 in operation — for municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants. The Socialist Party didn't even know what that was. Largest houses for municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants: the first 30 were assisted. "Aprol rural" for municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants. You talk to me about health issues. We fully equipped Lugo's hospital and put on specialties that he didn't have. We made a new hospital building in Ourense in the middle of economic crisis. We have a commitment of 15 million euros in Monforte, an increase in the Verín hospital and its facilities, and in the Barco. And you talk to me about productive tissue. Look, 61% of the Town Councils of Lugo and Ourense are business councils. And, in fact, you knew it, you said, "No, you're going to tell me about taxes." Of course, in rural areas they don't pay taxes for the first time in Galicia's history, and for the first time in the state of autonomy; 53,000 Greeks did not pay taxes, Your Honor. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u70	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u71	You will understand that if the central government, the autonomous government, the local deputies and governments took seriously the problem of depopulation of Lugo and Ourense, which is the real problem, the depopulation of Lugo and Ourense — and you know very well — we would have a more balanced Galicia. Now, don't tell me to say that the problem is solved. But I'd like to know what your proposals are to solve it, increase 60% of Catalonia's budget and decrease 30% of Galicia's budget? It's a proposal you must correct, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u72	Thank you, your time is up. Mr. Fernández Leicega's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u73	Yes, allow me to make a spell. I'm surprised, Mr. President, at your answer. And I'm surprised at your answer because I understand, in the first part, that he's actually starting to play in Spanish politics and he wants to confront Mr. Ábalos directly. [[Laughter]] But for that, you'll have to go to the Senate in the coming months. [[Applause]] To give up being President of the Galician Union because it also has some consequences. And the consequences are that you've given up practically talking about what's going on in Galicia these years. Don't tell me now: No, no, the problem is depopulation. Of course, that's what I was telling you right away. When we talk about the population falling by 20% or by 30%, what are we talking about, Mr. Feijóo? We're talking basically, look, not so much about vegetative growth -- that's negative -- how people go out of these neighborhoods, and they go away because there's no job. And that's the central issue. What policies do you have to promote the job that works? You tell me, we're doing a lot of awesome things. Perfect, but it doesn't work! And we can't wait, like Deng Xiaoping, for 200 years to reverse the situation. That's what he thought of the French Revolution, that two hundred years later he wasn't in a position to evaluate it. We can't wait that long, Mr. Feijó. And you're proposing something like that. For ten years have passed from his government; and, after ten years, it is time to make a small balance. Look, in Lugo, since you're talking about Lugo, investments — not spending, investments — which is the discretion of the Board, do you know what they've done in the last three years — according to Seopan? It was EUR 49 million, which is approximately EUR 50 per inhabitant per year. The average Galician Union of Galicia is 90. This is the data you have to review if you want to start changing the territorial dynamics in Galicia. And what do I propose? Well, it's pretty easy. I think the situation can be corrected. We need to learn from those places where they began to change in recent decades, for example the highlands of Scotland, of the Scottish model. There is a specialized agency that plans, which concentrates public action, which incorporates universities and which incorporates other institutions — here they would certainly have to be Members and others — to make a mid- and long-term, professional, competent and resource-oriented bet in that direction. And, let us say a few months ago, almost a year ago, we proposed in this House to implement the integrated territorial initiative, which is an instrument of European policy in this regard. You voted in favour, but a year later there's nothing. We will bring her back to this plenary session so that we can see where they are located and, above all, to assess what happens when initiatives are approved in this direction. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, we cannot take away the hope of the future from those who live in this backward Galicia, in this empty Galicia. We must be able to reverse the dynamics.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u74	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u75	And, to reverse the dynamics, whoever has the key, who can lock the match, is Galician Union. We also need you to answer the private initiative later, but you have the key to starting that process. Put it on and get it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u76	Thank you. Close the question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u77	Do you believe, Mr. Leicega, that we are talking about state budgets and the treatment of the Socialist Party in this attempt at state budgets, with a 30% decline in infrastructure, is it not correct? In a control session, the president of the Union is outraged by the budgetary policy of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, yes, Your Honor. And he's outraged that they've been taking our hair, ever since they arrived, on the subject of the diesel. [[Applause]] And he's outraged that they're taking our hair off the subject of Alcoa, Mr. Leicega. Alcohol is more than 24% of Lugo's gross domestic product. Do you think it's normal for us to be talking about Alcoa now, when you've been dwindling for ten months, when you lose your jobs in the Coruña and when you can't send a message to 1,200 families in the province of Lugo? Does it seem normal to you the decision of the Galician forest industry, where there are 200,000 people who don't know who sell the wood? Does this sound good to you about the territorial balance you're proposing to me now seriously? Do you think you have legitimacy to talk about territorial balance when it turns out that all the Greek forests at this time are threatened by that joke that turns out you want to captain? But, Mr. Leicega, with all the respect you know I have, look, since I am President of the Union — I say not, the INE — has given the greatest convergence in the history of the autonomous community. But not only in the history of this autonomous community, but Galicia is the first autonomous community where the wealth per inhabitant of all Spain, from all over Spain, has increased most!, Mr. Leicega. [[Applause]] And I'm not saying, as the National Institute of Statistics says. So to say that we don't have economic policies, because it's a surprising thing. Look, Mr. Leicega, in Rozas, Lugo, 160 million mobilisation of the aeronautics industry. A pipeline in the Navy to maintain Alcoa — 65 million euros —. Energy guidelines: 18 wind farms, 5,000 jobs — or 75% in the province of Lugo. Vocational Training Innovation Centre: as always, in impossible Vigo; in Ourense, 10 million euros. In road infrastructures, they say what they say, Your Honor, I have the relationship of all the infrastructures we have done: 210 kilometers — half in Lugo and Ourense. Now in Ourense is the connection to the San Cibrao polygon — EUR 22 million —, finished next year. And the Lugo-Sarria highway, Your Honor, we're going to unlock it, and we're going to bid the work in the second half of the year 2019. There are some Members on your bench who talk about highways. It's funny, Your Honor, they haven't done anything else to paralyze them all. They've been paralyzing Lugo-Ourense and Lugo-Santiago since they arrived at the Government, and now they're talking about lessons of territorial balance in infrastructure, too. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, the ecobarrio in Ourense I hope the Ministry of Ecological Transition won't stop him because he was engaged. It's 20 million euros and 300 jobs. Industrial vines: five of the seven industries, Lugo and Ourense. Ladies and gentlemen: 26 million investments by Coren, 15 million investments by Entrepinars in Vilalba, 120 million euros in Curtis for a biomass plant, 100 million euros in Curtis for a milk processing plant... Look, are you really going to keep talking about territorial balance and you're not going to help me solve the Alcoa problem with your government?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u78	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u79	Are you really going to talk to me here about territorial balance and not looking for a solution for all the forest wealth we have in Galicia, with 50% of Spain's total cuts? Really, Your Honor, you're going to talk about territorial balance in health and it turns out that it's not worth a single Galician hospital to be a cancer therapy reference hospital, Car-T therapies? Not one! We proposed that the Coruña, Santiago and Vigo choose. Not one! And where are they going? Where always, Catalonia and Valencia, Valencia and Catalonia; and Galicia, zero. You speak of territorial health balance and, for one of the few competences that the Central Government has, what it does is to keep Galicia in a continuous manner in the field of electrointensive industry, in the field of forest industry, in the field of infrastructure.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u80	Thank you, President, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u81	You speak of territorial balance. Do you compromise with me to fulfill the commitment of the AVE to Lugo, yes or no? That's territorial balance, Mr. Leicega, that's territorial balance.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u82	Thank you, your time is up. We continue with the agenda, with non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr. Gonzalo Trenor López and seven other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in order to ensure the supply of water to the population in the face of possible drought situations
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u83	There are amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Galego Nationalist Block, the Galician Socialist Group and the En Marea Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u84	To formulate this non-law proposal, Mr. Trenor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u85	Good morning, gentlemen. In this House we have discussed on many occasions about climate change, its effects and its consequences on the whole of the planet, and also about the impact on the economy on our ecosystems, and also...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u86	Sorry, you hear me wrong. It's the microphone, which must be wrong. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's see now, try.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u87	Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u88	Good. Let's go.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to repeat myself again. In this House we have discussed on many occasions about climate change, about the effects it has on the planet as a whole, but also about the consequences on our territory, the consequences on our economy, on our ecosystems, and also on the lives of our neighbours and neighbours. In Galicia these effects...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u90	Excuse me, it's just that you don't listen again. Let's see if they fix it. Wait a second.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u91	In Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, we have already found that these effects of climate change have an impact on our territory. It has changed, there is already evidence that the rain regime has changed, giving rise to periods of water scarcity in recent years. We also see how the precipitation regime has changed; now the drought periods are longer and the rain periods shorter and more intense. This climate change context forces us to be prepared to deal with situations arising from the scarcity of rainfall periods, which lead to a decrease in available water. It must be borne in mind, moreover, that there are greater risks in the supply of water to the population that is in the large urban agglomerations. So we could see it in the years 2016 and 2017 in the supply of Vigo and its surroundings, where there was a very worrying situation. That is why it is necessary for the different administrations with competences in this area to count on planning and if they have planned the actions necessary to meet the challenges that we have ahead. On the one hand, to achieve more responsible, efficient and sustainable water management. And in order to avoid risks and ensure the supply of water in quantity and quality to the population, there is a need for an axillary, accurate and coordinated response by all the competent administrations in order to be able to deal with the changes that will undoubtedly occur. On the competences of each administration, it seems to me that I should have to remember what the law says, especially when it's not the first and second time it's done; there seems to be a certain willingness to ignore the normative framework and the powers of each administration. Just by recalling what has already been said, the basic regulations on local regime, the laws regulating local bases of regime, as well as the Law on Local Administration of Galicia and also the sectoral regulations on water, the Law on waters of Galicia, clearly establish, meridianly clear, that it is the councils that have exclusive competence in the supply and sanitation of their municipal systems. So we should not focus the debate on who is responsible, on who has the competences, because, as I told you, the Law on Local Plans determines that the provision of this public supply service is a municipal competition. Anything else we do is deny reality and cheat ourselves. Having clarified this, and without losing any competence to the councils, our group is in favour of collaboration between the administrations, so we believe that the Greek Government must assume responsibility for ordering and supporting the councils in this service. In line with this, the Government of Galicia has been supporting local administrations, collaborating and assisting them in the development of their municipal powers. For example, since 2009 the Union has committed more than three hundred supply actions, of which 186 Greek municipalities have benefited, moving forward in the assurance of supply of water in quantity and quality. In addition, the Autonomic Administration, through the Galician Waters Agency, has developed the Galician Hydrographic Demarcation Dry Plan, thus providing an own planning tool that allows you, in the face of a possible specific drought episode, to identify, evaluate, follow-up, take decisions and follow-up measures to minimize adverse effects. But it is also very necessary, ladies and gentlemen, that local administrations, the municipalities themselves, have adequate tools to manage this drought situation with diligence and effectiveness. It is necessary for the municipalities to develop and contain with their own drought emergency plans, because these drought-risk emergency plans constitute the basic planning tools of public administrations. The Law of the Hydrological Plan provides that public administrations responsible for urban supply systems that care either singularly or jointly for a population equal to or greater than 20,000 inhabitants must have an emergency plan in the face of drought situations. It is true that despite the legal obligation of 2001 for the municipalities of 20,000 or more to provide these emergency plans in the face of drought, today no Greek council has emergency plans and is obliged to do so. Although the obligation is established for the large municipalities, from this parliamentary group we believe it would also be advisable for the small municipalities to contain these emergency plans. To this end, they should have the option of drawing up their own emergency plan in the face of drought, themselves or with the support of the corresponding provincial deputies. In addition, in the event that these plans are drawn up by the provincial Members, these could be grouped into two or more urban supply systems in order to optimize the availability of water resources in the face of a shortage. Support by Members of the Councils is also reflected in the Law regulating the basis of local regimes, which provides for the competences of Members to ensure the full and adequate provision throughout the province of municipal competition services, legal, economic and technical assistance and cooperation to municipalities, especially those with less economic and management capacity, and the provision of supra-municipal public services and, in their case, supra-commercial services. It also assigns them the role of cooperation in economic and social development and planning in provincial territory. In addition, these powers were strengthened by the Local Administration's Law of Rationalization and Sustainability, passing provincial deputies to be able to coordinate the management of some services, among them, the supply of drinking water to the homes of municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, from this parliamentary group we understand that provincial Members must make themselves available to those municipalities which lack the means to develop these emergency plans and facilitate their development, so that they can effectively cope with all future situations and difficulties arising from this issue. In this sense, the Supply Guarantee Act which is pushing the Galician Union, as the Councillor himself has already done in full a few weeks ago, will arrive this same year in this Parliament, and seeks to create the tools to guarantee the necessary water, in quality and quantity, in the new climate change context. That law is precisely in the need for local administrations to provide adequate tools to manage drought episodes with diligence and effectiveness, so that the municipalities can count on emergency plans before drought. On the other hand, the new law will also affect the need for Members to exercise their responsibility for supporting the municipalities, especially those — more than small — who have greater difficulties in drawing up their own emergency plan. We know, ladies and gentlemen, what the intention of the Council of Galicia is to help the municipalities in this matter. Last April 30th, the Infrastructure and Mobility Adviser, together with the Director of the Waters of Galicia, held a meeting with the President of the Fegamp to advance a forthcoming call for help from the Board so that the municipalities of Galicia of up to 50,000 inhabitants could equip themselves with emergency plans for drought situations. Aids of EUR 15,000 to each municipality you request in order to finance up to 80% of the cost of drawing up the Emergency Plan in the face of drought. Something that, of course, ladies and gentlemen, can be complemented by the help of other administrations, as could be the Members. Now, ladies and gentlemen, it is only to be expected that Members and Councils will get their hands on the work, that they will work together, and that they will move forward with emergency plans in the face of drought situations. For all this, ladies and gentlemen, our group is presenting this initiative, in which we are in Galicia asking the municipalities to draw up emergency plans for drought situations and to carry out the necessary actions in the municipal supply network, with the aim of solving the existing problems and avoiding water loss on the network, in order to be better prepared for possible water resource reductions. We also urge the provincial deputies to support those municipalities that lack technical and economic resources for the implementation of emergency plans. We call on the Galician Council to provide support and advice, when required by local authorities, in drawing up their respective emergency plans and in carrying out coordination work between the municipal emergency plans and the Galicia-Costa Hydrographic Demarcation Dry Plan, prepared by the Galician Water Administration. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u92	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u93	Good morning. The truth is, the People's Party never ceases to surprise us, never ceases to surprise us. They come here to present a non-law proposal to tell the municipalities and deputies what they have to do. But they didn't realize that non-law propositions are proposals for the impetus of the Government's action, they're to ask the Council of Galicia to act. By the way, to do what he didn't. You come here with this maximum of: Tips seeing that for me I don't have. They intend to say that the board did everything that had to be done and that the municipalities didn't. Well, no, it's not true, the board didn't do the homework. And do you want to come here and convince us that the powers are municipal administrations? The Galician Union also has powers, it is in the Water Law and in the plans that develop it, in the area of hydraulic planning and in the field of hydraulic works, those of general interest of the Autonomous Community. Councils have competences in the management of service and also in works, but they're shared competences, they're not trying to fool people, Mr. Trenor. The problem is that you assume efficiency and efficiency, but the reality, the question, is that you haven't done your homework, that you're in paralysis, that you're in your desire and that you're in absolute slackness in water, and you don't comply with your own regulations and budgets of the Board of Galicia. [[Applause]] But how dare you come here to give some kind of lesson, when in the 2018 exercise they reduced the budget of hydraulic works by 25 million euros? How dare you? How do they have the holy face of coming here to teach lessons? From 28 to 12 million in hydrological planning and management. Wasn't there to spend the money? If they want, I'll give them some ideas about it. You guys are making fun of the people of Greece and this Parliament, for example, of the local water pact, which was the most sold, most announced pact, more advertised propaganda in the history of this Parliament, which they signed in 2013 and have not yet developed and complied with. Two years ago, Mrs. Bea Mato, who's not here, said what was going to give her a boost. He gave him a boost in 2017 and he got the boost in a jump, but he didn't get anywhere because we're in it, since 2013 without taking a step forward. Look, you've decided you haven't created the Water Sustainable Use Council yet, and then you're here talking about climate change, changes in precipitation... believe the law advice, advice for sustainable water use, which has the function of advising government in management and planning, and also preventing sustainable water consumption. Third. We don't have a Greek Supply Plan and a Greek Sanitation Plan, or local plans, which are also provided for by law. The drought plan is 2010 and is out of line. You said here that you've changed the precipitation regime and also that drought episodes are much longer. So you have to update that plan, you have to do a new one, and you're doing what you're doing is letting the time go without solving the problems. And there's Vigo's case. Vigo's case is not only the responsibility of the Vigo Town Hall, because it serves an area of 500,000 inhabitants. There are problems in the transport network, supplies and also in the debugger station, which supplies more municipalities than in Vigo Town Hall. They have to agree, and also the state has to put in place ways to solve these problems. Of course, right now, laughing at the creek, you come here to propose something that is planned in a law that will come into force next year and which is planning two years to implement those plans. But what are they going to do, if the law isn't yet approved! The current legislation only imposes obligations on the municipalities of more than 20,000 inhabitants. By the way, do you know what the regulation that develops the Water Law says? That the Union must adopt the general criteria, consistent with the drought plans, for the development by the local authorities concerned of its emergency plans. And she didn't do her homework, she didn't do those general criteria. So you put yourself to the task: ask the Government of the United States to do what it has to do and then give advice and examples to local administrations, but not vice versa. Look, let's propose an amendment. We are not going to talk here about the change that would have to be made in the entire industrial, forestry process, etc., or other needs that are not water supply, for example for agricultural farms, which have serious problems in many parts of the country. Our proposal is an amendment proposal, but you have to make amends. What they have to do is comply with the law, the general regulations, develop the water pact, develop the current legislation, do the yellow sanitation plan, update the drought plan, run budgets that don't run, fulfill their obligations, agree the performance criteria to make emergency plans for drought episodes. You have to rule, you have to set an example, you have to assume your responsibilities and then you demand them from others. So, in short, less samba, more propaganda and more work.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u94	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u95	Thank you, President. Good morning to all Members and Members. Mr. Trenor, that you come here to say that we deny reality, when in 2007 Mariano Rajoy said that he had a cousin who told him that climate change didn't exist, and that if you couldn't predict how long he would be doing within fifteen days, much less what would happen after 200 or 300 years, man! And you've done what's important to the Government about this issue that neither of the two advisors who can be affected by climate change and water, who are the Environmental Adviser and the Infrastructure Advisor, have stayed here to listen to absolutely nothing you had to say. You guys come here to wash your face. The truth is they have moved infinitely from Mariano Rajoy to today, because their initiative recognizes that climate change is already in Galicia and that it is a global problem. Well, welcome, because we've been telling you for years, and you, when the previous legislation began, denied that climate change existed in Galicia. In fact, even Meteogalicia, which has to do with its government, we suppose, says that the temperature projections in our community between 2061 and 2090 will average a three-degree rise across our community, Meteogalicia. You're talking about water. Access to water is a fundamental right because it tells the UN, since 2010, nine years ago. You didn't do anything to ensure access to water. We asked them for a plan to adapt Galicia to climate change in relation to water, and in the questions you answered in writing, their government said it wasn't necessary. So we believe that yes, that a mitigation plan and a water-related adaptation plan is needed. We need a hydrological transition exactly as we need an energy transition, so we need a hydrological audit exactly as we need an energy audit. This initiative that you bring today, in addition to containing an error because there is a missing point 3, goes from 2 to 4 — we assume that in 3 there were the obligations that you would impose on the Council of Galicia, and they are not — and, in addition, it is very ambitious, and we believe that this initiative has to do with something, La Voz de Galicia, February 23, "The Board plans to adopt before June the Preliminary draft law on measures to ensure supply in dry seasons the health risk." [[Applause]] Of course, it's impossible to approve this preliminary draft before June because the preliminary draft didn't even come through the Board of Directors. That's why you come to tug, with a non-law proposition, asking for something that has to be in a law, because if you're not in a law, this non-law proposition is simply for you to cover the coupon of the two non-law propositions that you have to have every time they come to a full, and as they shouldn't have many, then bring this one. This initiative means nothing more than — as the spokesman of the BNG said — the municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants and the provincial deputies have no obligation to do with what you ask for in this non-law proposal. In fact, you yourself have just acknowledged that the Infrastructure Council, through the waters of Galicia, has met with Fegamp to talk about the aid that the Government itself, the Union itself, will give to the municipalities to make those drought plans, up to 15,000 euros of help. That means that some competition will have the Galician Union, because if you don't have any competition, what's the matter? The Galician Water Act, in Article 26, states that it is the responsibility of the Galician Water Administration to regulate and grant economic aid to local authorities in the field of local authorities. So, if you have your skills, don't embark on other things, which aren't you, in things that the law doesn't force you to do because that law doesn't exist. Mr. Trenor, be a little more serious. We share that in these competences must also intervene the Members, we agree. In fact, they're already intervening, but they're acting a little differently. The Lugo Parliament, for supply, has some €500,000; that of Coruña and that of Pontevedra are around EUR million; in Ourense, I'm talking about the Valdeorras Boat, for example, a similar population, the aid of the Ourense Parliamentary Assembly is EUR 48,000. Of course, you see the difference between what you are concerned about climate change, water supply and the need for drought plans in the Ourense Parliament, which is just the province less affected by climate change in Galicia, and what concerns the other three Members exactly on the same issue, economically at the same time! You, thirty-eight years of Government in Galicia, have been 32. You never asked, never said anything, never!, neither you nor your predecessors in the environment, about whether the budget of the Union is enough or not to deal with this problem, about how many campaigns to encourage savings and efficiency in water consumption...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u96	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u97	...if they've done. That happened with that cocoaed Local Water Pact, which was one of the promises — in addition to the Strategy for Climate Change and the Strategy for the Circular Economy — that Mrs. Beatriz Mato promised, promised and promised, must have been when she came back from Paris from that peak on climate change. Our amendment is very complete. It's a replacement amendment that goes to the real problem; to alleviate the effects of drought and flooding, to achieve good environmental status and supply and to meet the demands of citizens' water.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u98	Thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u99	Aceptena, which is much more complete than yours. And by the way, it goes from point 1 to point 10 but without eating any, and thus laying down obligations for the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u101	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Looks like the People's Party has already caught that climate change is here. It's a breakthrough, an important advance, since it is. And they bring in an initiative to talk about climate change and drought. It may seem that the People's Party is suddenly concerned about the environmental crisis and concerned about the fight against climate change. It may seem that the People's Party has decided to change its course of action to begin to reverse its destructive policies of the environment. It may seem that the People's Party has decided to acknowledge its errors, its responsibility for the environmental crisis and to start taking action to change this situation. It may seem that Rajoy's cousin is a sad, ridiculous and irresponsible memory of the past, but this is not so. The People's Party remains exactly the same irresponsible party that continues to allow environmental degradation in exchange for coins. It's still the same irresponsible party that protects contaminant companies in exchange for posts in the board of directors. That's why you bring this initiative today, to make it appear that they are worried about something about the environmental crisis, demanding administrations that are not those of the Galician Union that are dealing with actions that the Galician Union is not doing. The People's Party has been contributing to the climate crisis for decades, looking to the other side as contaminants were enriched by externalizing costs in the form of environmental degradation, which we all pay but which, above all, will pay for the new generations. And he's still doing it today, we just have to see complaints throughout the country of polluting industries that count on the protection of the Galician Union: it's only to see Mr. Tahoces, only to see the position with respect to the thermals of the People's Party. It takes an ecological transition without leaving anyone behind, of course, without leaving anyone behind. Where there are thermals, we have to put back the jobs with green energy. That's what we have to do, that's what a responsible administration would do, but you're on the side of the profits of power companies. Of course you can make an ecological transition without leaving anyone behind! We just have to see the environmental advisor saying in the media that Ence does not pollute and defend the Sogama model, which emits more greenhouse gases from all possible waste management systems. All we have to do is see the position of the People's Party in mobility policies, highways across the country to continue betting on the individual vehicle by motor, nothing to dynamize collective transport and sustainable mobility. Obviously, we cannot be serious about the environment with the People's Party. Obviously, we cannot have a serious debate with the People's Party on the environment. All we can do is mark them as responsible and demand a change of direction, but of course we cannot have a serious debate. Look, two years ago we had a serious problem, a serious crisis on the subject of drought. We all remember the problem there was, especially in Vigo and also in the Ourense area, with regard to water supply. The only thing that happened to the Galician Union at that time was the barbarity of the crossing of the River Verdugo, a brutal environmental aggression that did not solve the root problem. Besides being a serious environmental aggression, it doesn't solve the problem. And also empty the wells that were destined for the fight against fire. Those were all the occurrences of the People's Party. Two years later, the Galician Union did absolutely nothing. And we'll meet again in the same situation and the Galician Union will have done absolutely nothing. We propose a replacement amendment. At the first and second points, where you demand the councils and the deputies who act, we also introduce the Galician Council to work together on these issues, because we understand it's logical. We're talking about a tremendously important problem, we're talking about survival, we're talking about life and, of course, the Galician Union has competences and has to participate in this. And then we propose an addendum point, point five, where we make a series of environmental action proposals for the care of the water cycle, which is one of the most important issues that we have to be working on in Galicia. In this environmental plan of water cycle care, in which you have done absolutely nothing in these years in this regard, we have made a number of proposals, but of course there are many more things to do. We're asking for a drastic reduction in greenhouse gases. I don't know what the Galician Union is waiting for to start working on that issue, because you're saying we have a climate change problem, that greenhouse gases are the main problem of climate change, but they're doing absolutely nothing to reduce those gases. We also propose to them actions of heading care, of pipes, of turbulence, of wetlands, of the water cycle. We also propose to reduce the species that are consuming high amounts of water resources, such as eucalyptus and acacias. We have a serious problem with the consumption of water resources from these two species, in addition to their contribution to fires as well. So you have to start eradicating the acacias and reducing the eucalyptus. We also propose that they recover the native forest, which is fundamental to water care, and imposed on industries...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u102	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u103	...highly consumer — and finished with this. We have the example of Ence in Pontevedra, who consumes water seven times what consumes Pontevedra and pays much less water.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u104	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u105	It doesn't make sense that in this context a company that consumes so many amounts of water doesn't pay a tax for it. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Cal. Mr. Trenor López has the floor on the author group of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u107	Today we have launched an initiative that discussed the need for emergency plans to be developed, inter-government collaboration to enable them to be carried out, to provide advice and support to which they cannot do so, and to coordinate these municipal emergency plans with the drought plan. And what brings us the opposition because it's more than the same, and it's quite frustrating. One came with the argumentary about the environment of his party, which I suppose would send him now to the national and municipal elections, and he comes here talking about everything but emergency plans. You didn't speak once in your emergency plan intervention, not once! You can talk about what you want, you can talk about a thousand things, but eventually the only thing that comes here you're playing what they say in your arguments. But very little favor do you to Galicia and the Greeks! Then, Mrs. Vilan, you are obsessed here with numbering. I never saw a debate where we were debating a mistake that was made in the register of an initiative because numeration was wrong! You quoted it and you've been wasting your time on two occasions on the issue of numbering, that's the level of your debate! Your Honor, this reminds me, I don't know, when we were in high school debates... he said, he said, I don't know that... it's very frustrating, very frustrating, that in a matter like the drought emergency plans for you the only concern is that there was a numbering error. It's just that it's hallucinating, hallucinating, hallucinating. [[Applause]] And then, of course, Mr Bará, who is unable to recognize that his Town Hall, in which he is conceler, is failing a legislative provision because it is a council of more than twenty thousand people, of course, he is unable to recognize it, and you come here to hold everyone responsible, but he is not able to say: "Hey! as Greeks, we have done some things wrong, and in the municipalities too, we're going to fix it, we're all going to work together." No, you can't. You're not able to remove your T-shirts from your parties to put on your country T-shirts. You're with myopia, yes, gentlemen. [[Murmurs.]] They're incapable of defending the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks. They're just looking at what interests their party, they're unable to make any good proposals, they're unable to deepen in debates and they're unable to make Galicia win. Look, you're still confusing your skills. I made it clear to them. You keep going around, keep messing around. The law, both sectoral and the local regime law, clearly indicates which are the competences. You guys come here to keep twirling. Well, this debate is still very sterile. Look, the Galician Union is already working, it's already pushed policy measures. I told them that I was going to take out now a line of help to the municipalities, I missed them with more than three hundred infrastructures, works, measures you have done in recent years, and I highlighted in my speech the importance of the Greek municipalities as well.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u108	Finish, please. And tell me the position on the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u109	Yes, on the amendments, we are going to reject the amendments of the three groups, because the initiative that we bring is very concrete, is responding to an urgent problem in which our group has already expressed its willingness to cooperate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Trenor. Let's move on to the next initiative. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da María Ángeles Cuña Bóveda and Da Luca Chao Pérez, on the performances to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to the use of Greek in banking institutions
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u111	Two amendments were tabled, by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego and by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u112	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Cuña Bóveda. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u113	Good morning to all and to all. Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin this non-law proposal, I would like to bless everyone and everyone with nine days in advance. May 17 is a special date for all of us who love our language. So, well, today we should also bless teachers and teachers, especially teachers, especially teachers of Galician Language, because they do a titanic job of motivation for students and students to be motivated to dive and get to know our language well. This is done without fear, with a lot of care and a lot of effort, because writing isn't easy. Also the writers, dramatists, writers, poets, who feed us and surprise us constantly. Publishers, booksellers, translators, linguists, who transform curiosity into a serious study of all the speakers who call their language English, without exception. In the end, with more or less grapples, with more or less hurdles, all of us, gentlemen, use the tongue. But language is more than specific people who speak and write, it is also the memory of all who have read and written over the centuries, because they have taken care of the meaning and soul of words, because the future is in memory, in roots, in construction and in appreciation of what was before. To also bless the entire Greek cultural ecosystem, which, despite precariousness, destruction and instability, is a vicious, powerful, gifted sector, a sector of what if we feel very proud, but which also lives in that precarious area. And it must be borne in mind that culture employs more than 30,000 workers. This generates 2% of IVE. You know perfectly well that in the last ten years cropping, one of the most punished areas, has been extremely high and more than 500 million euros have been lost in budgets. We have, despite everything, a culture that survives the Government's evasia. We hear Mr. President speaking this morning with a lot of sophistications, a lot of arbitrariness and many fallacies. We want Greek, but we also want facts and not words. In 2009 there was for language policy twenty-one million seven hundred thousand euros. Do you know what 2019 is? Eight million euros. These are made. Mr. Feijóo also said in 2016, he announced the bomb and dish, the creation of the Strategic Plan of Greek Culture. Uostrategic plan of Greek culture? And it's been almost three years. With regard to the Bureau for Linguistic Standardization, we have signed this year's motto: we want equality, we want justice, we want freedom. The Bureau for Standardization itself published four months ago a report entitled "The use of Greek on websites of banking institutions." In this report it is analysed how German is used in different banks on websites, applications and boxes. The fundamental objective of the document is to explain whether Welsh and Welsh can carry out their financial activities in their own language, as should be guaranteed by law and as is the case in the State's co-official languages. Legislation is very clear, very clear. In the so-called Article 3(3) of Article 5, which the BNG spokesperson has already appointed the first hour, it is said — it is powerful — that the public authorities will ensure the normal and official use of the two languages. They will also enhance the use of Welsh in every order of public, cultural and informational life. I also want to bless, speaking of information, all journalists and journalists who are fighting for the defense of culture in CRTVG, and "Defende la Gaga". [[Applause]] It is also said that they will have the means to facilitate their knowledge. Well, we've just said which is the most punished area of all, all, absolutely all, of this administration: the linguistic policy, with a cut of seventy-five per cent, which is a barbarity. Then we must also say that service providers operating in the territory of the community, regardless of where they live, must respect the legal framework in terms of language. Here we should talk about the Law on Linguistic Standardization, the European Community Guidelines on Services of the Internal Market, the German Trade Act. The German Trade Act, among other things, should promote progressive normalization in the provision of service, should provide trade unions, customers, with the possibility of maintaining oral and written communication. And he says textually that consumers in their consumer relationships have the right to use any of the official languages of the community. In addition, given the data provided by the Bureau's report, it must be said that in practice the full exercise of the right to use Greek is not guaranteed by receiving oral or written attention. In fact, there's some very interesting data, which I'm going to give next. As interesting data, with regard to the Internet, look at all websites, apps and boxes, 100 percent, in Spanish. We're talking about Galicia and two co-official languages that must be in equal right. Well, do you know how many are in Catalan? 47.62 % — are data from the Linguistic Rights Observatory. Do you know how many are in English? 42.85%. Do you know how many are in Galicia in an official language? 33.33%. What do you think? Is that what it is? In this way, the conclusion is that, on that obligation to promote, encourage and combat the false nature of the treatment of Greek as a foreign language in its own nation, in fact, the Government is far from fulfilling these linguistic rights. So our parliamentary group here is that Parliament must urge the Union to take the necessary legislative measures so that banks, and particularly banks that are in agreement with the Government, can guarantee the right to use Welsh and to be treated in English. Because it has to be said that the violation of the right to be treated in one's own language is serious, but much more serious is that, in the worst case, banking companies enjoy a public agreement with the Government of Galicia, under the name of "collaborating financial entities." This is an incredible fact. Banking groups benefit from exclusivity, since we all have to do procedures, they are compulsory activities. We have to do procedures, we have to pay university and other fees, we have to pay sanctions, sales, services, fines and transfers to the administration itself. This is bleeding. They benefit from exclusivity, that people have to process, but only four out of fourteen of these entities, only four, offer web services in English, in such a way that we are charged that the procedures are often done in Spanish. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not from receipt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u114	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cuña. On behalf of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u115	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. For, indeed, what has just been reported by Mrs Cuña is a part of the reality of which is, curiously speaking, the President of the Galician Union, who today reads precisely some of the articles of both the Statute and the Law of Linguistic Standardization, which literally says that no person in our country can be discriminated against on the basis of language. And what is discrimination, what is discrimination? To discriminate is to distinguish, to discriminate is to treat people in different ways, in this case, who deserve the same treatment. And what we see, which is a palpable reality, perfectly tangible and measurable, as it is collected in the case of the report on the situation of the Greek language in the financial entities of our country that made the Bureau for Linguistic Standardization, what we can verify, what can be measured is that people in Galicia, or people who want — because they have acknowledged that right — access to information, documentation or any other kind of document linked to that commercial or financial relationship in Welsh, cannot, they cannot. You can sign a bank contract, open a bank account, sign a credit, sign a mortgage in Spanish but not in German, what is it? Force you to sign a rental contract in Spanish, because there's no rental contract in English, or it's not possible, what is it? What is it? Is that normal? Is that normal or is it a situation of discrimination, i.e., different treatment of people who would deserve the same treatment? To carry out administrative proceedings — Mrs Cuña explained it to the thread of the agreements which she has signed with financial entities herself, which require you to develop administrative procedures through them in a mandatory and unique way and exclusively in Spanish, because in Greek there is no, can't you, is that it? Is that normal? Is that normal? Or is it treating different people who would deserve the same treatment? And this happens to a good extent and despite what is collected in our own country's legislation, which, as everyone knows, says that we cannot be discriminated against on the basis of language and that the public authorities — i.e. the Government of Galician Union — have a legal obligation to guarantee the normalized use of the Greek language. This is because, to a large extent — and it is also a debate that has already taken place in this House in this legislature — they have not raised the rank of law, as if it had happened in the case of Basque or happened in the case of Catalonia, these linguistic rights and therefore also the obligations which to guarantee these linguistic rights must be collected in the Greek legislation. In this very House, in this legislature, the popular legislative initiative promoted by the Bureau by linguistic normalization was discussed, accompanied by the support of more than twenty-eight thousand people, more than twenty-eight thousand signatures, which predicted and met precisely those obligations as a guarantee of the linguistic rights of the Greeks and the Greeks. The People's Party voted against. Because we have a law and we have nothing more to do with the law that regulates the general protection of users and consumers in our country, of the year 2012. Article 128 contains the language rights of consumers in our country, and the only thing that is said to be "power" to use, which we have the right to use either of the two languages and which can in any case be used either of these two languages. How can I use the English language if the writings, documents, single and exclusive contracts are in Spanish and do not have a legal obligation on the financial entity to present them in their own language or, in this case, in the language of use of the consumer or user of a particular public service? We continue to argue that, as happened in Euskadi in 2003, as it was driven in Catalonia in 2010, we must raise the range of law these linguistic rights of users and consumers in our country to establish and lay down obligations, to guarantee a fundamental right of people as it is to be able to develop our life fully with absolute freedom in this country's own language and to comply with the legal obligation of the Council of Galicia, collected in the Statute of Self-Government and the Standardization Act of 1983. That's why we, in addition to supporting today's initiative at Marea, tabled an amendment not to be circumscribed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u116	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u117	... yes, with this ending—only and exclusively to banking relations, to relations with financial entities, but rather to develop the legal measures necessary to ensure full normality and linguistic rights...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u118	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u119	...of the entire population of this country in any of the commercial relationships. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u120	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Burgo López from the Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. What is being debated, as you could see perfectly in this non-law proposition, goes beyond the use of Greek by banking entities. It's a discussion about the linguistic rights of all the Greeks and all the Greeks, a discussion that we will also follow in the next non-law proposal. Some rights, as has already been said, but I think it's good to repeat, which are guaranteed by the Constitution, by the Statute, by the Law of Linguistic Standardization, in addition to multiple laws other than consumer and user protection; the right to use any of the co-official languages in any situation and both against public administrations and against private companies or private entities. Now Mrs. Cuña wants to pretend to be a fundamental element, because all the truth is that we have relations with banking entities, we want or don't want them. And banking institutions are public companies that we're seeing as they're receiving, they're bulking up many of the users' complaints about their behavior in the face of Greek, as did the Bureau's report for Standardization. Of course, many banking institutions often violate user rights: lack of customer documentation, lack of Welsh in automatic boxes, information cards, electronic banking, public attention, websites, advertising; they are common failures. I agree with Mrs. Cuña that it is even more serious that these errors are made in cooperating entities with the Galician Union, because at least the Galician Union should have the linguistic sensitivity to try to correct these errors in entities not only banking, of all kinds, but in companies that collaborate with her and those that are also being given an advantage against the others. Mrs. Cuña has already named the data we know, but I also want to insist on Catalan data. That 48% — about 50% — of all the banking institutions operating in Galicia have Catalan and a large part of Euskera also speaks of the different sensitivity of governments to their own languages. It's true, because if we had a sensitivity in Galicia with our own languages, we would have more Greek presence. [[Applause]] And this isn't just going on in the bank, it's going on in all the big and medium-sized companies, which is Catalan, but is not English. It is true that the Galician Union has developed only one language promotion plan since 2009, but that was the plan for the dynamization of the Greek language in the economic fabric 2015-2020, which is not being complied with, but it also has too little action. And we have to have political measures, measures of the Galician Union to deal with all these problems with the bank: establishing agreements with the main banking entities to normalize the use of Greek, working with the foundations of the banking institutions and collaboration agreements to put into practice positive offer in the clientele. Well, okay, we're going to agree with the main banking entities. And I asked Junta, without her answer: how many agreements have been made with banking entities in these years and within the Plan of impulse in the economic fabric? We don't know any; therefore, I suppose none. And of course, this lack of political measures, this lack of interest, is what is leading to the violation of the rights of the Greeks. And finally, that I don't have time, we tabled an amendment simply because, according to what we say, we believe that legislative measures only restricted to this banking sector may not be the easiest way to express it. Perhaps, because they are problems that arise in other sectors, we should talk about policy measures and also about political measures, because in these positive policies there is really the real impulse to a language, as other governments are showing, not just unfortunately, the Greek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u122	Thank you very much, Mrs Burgo. You have the floor, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. I would like to begin my intervention by making a contextualization of the current legal framework as it refers to the use of Greek in society, for it seems appropriate, to treat a non-law proposition as the one we are debating today, to have a clear view of the current regulatory context. The Statute of Autonomy of Galicia, the basic standard of our self-government, so named in this Parliamentary House this morning, points out in its Article 5: "The very language of Galicia is Greek. The English and Spanish languages are officers in Galicia and everyone has the right to know and use them. Galician public authorities will ensure the normal and official use of the two languages and enhance the use of Welsh in all levels of public, cultural and informational life, and will have the means to facilitate their knowledge. No one can be discriminated against because of the language." We have to read everything, eh, Mrs. Cuña, because here we only read what we're interested in. The Law of Linguistic Standardization, adopted by the party I represent, commissioned the Government of Galicia, in exercise of its standardized function of language use, the development of plans that put value to our language. That's why the General Secretariat of Linguistic Policy works so that banking entities, in the same way as other companies or entities based in Galicia, offer their services in English. Look, in my mobile app you can observe -- I'm not saying which bank is -- the most effective payment appears and the cash is in Greek, okay? [[Mr Vázquez Domínguez shows a mobile phone.]] There's a lot to do but don't lie, because you said there wasn't any bank that made any kind of bank... yes, yes, you said there wasn't any bank entity that used Greek. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In particular, the Linguistic Standardization Plan also approved unanimously by this Parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u124	Quiet, please. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u125	Thank you, President. I would say, ladies and gentlemen, that the Linguistic Standardisation Plan, adopted unanimously by this Parliament, and the Plan for the dynamisation of the Greek language of the economic fabric, contain measures to enhance the use of Greek in the field of banking institutions, which the General Secretariat for Linguistic Policy is developing. In this plan three strategic goals are structured, which I'm going to name. The first is to create awareness that the use of Greek favours economic and business results and labour, commercial and banking relations. I'm going to give you data, because no one here has talked about data. According to IGE data, the Galego Institute of Statistics, 65.5% of bank users and users show that they always or almost always use the Galician language with their staff belonging to the bank. The objective is to extend the use of language in the economic sphere, in business and business relations, both in supply and in demand. Data from the IGE, ladies and gentlemen: more than half of the Greeks speak German or more Greek than Spanish. And, as a third objective, use the language to boost Galicia's own differential brand image. These measures work, ladies and gentlemen, even though you don't like them. Mrs. Cuña, Mrs. Rodil and Mrs. Burgo, the Greek language is a wealth and you don't want to destroy it, which is what they intend to do. You, Mrs. Cuña, in your resolution of your proposal, demand legislative action. But you don't know if you know — I remember — that there has been a plan approved since 2016 — and I'm really going to tell you when it was adopted: August 4, 2016 — by the Council of Government of Galicia. The truth is, I have a lot to explain to myself the amendments of the opposition groups because, on the one hand, they say legislative measures, but on the other hand, they say that the legislative measures are not, rather, better regulations. Let's see if they get a little bit clearer, because we certainly don't have that very clear from here. Within the objectives of the bank, I will comment on the approach and establishment of agreements with the main banking institutions to standardize the use of Greek, to work together with the foundations — which have also been appointed here — of the banking institutions and — as otherwise! — to establish collaborative agreements. The only goal, ladies and gentlemen, is to promote the Greek language. Galicia is rich, it is rich both at the cultural level and at the gastronomic, economic level, but also at the linguistic level. We have two official languages: the English and the Spanish. [[Murmurs.]] The rights of consumers and users must be borne in mind with the existence of two official languages. It seems to us that we must continue to support, as the Government is doing, the use of the Greek through an approach of encouragement and encouragement for respect for rights... [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Pontón, do you have a problem? Because he's always interrupting me every time I talk. I don't know if you have any problems. Maybe he doesn't want the freedom of the Greek I'm saying, maybe that's the problem he has. It's all right! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] You didn't interrupt me? [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Since the moment I started talking. With this, all they're trying to do is divide the country, they're trying to impose themselves against coexistence, cordiality and freedom of the Greeks and the Greeks. To impose, it does not contain this group. It contains — yes — this parliamentary group to always be on the side of the freedom of the Greeks and the Greeks for the use of the two official languages, the English and the Spanish. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u126	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u127	Well, first, thank Mrs. Olalla Rodil for sharing the defense of our linguistic rights. Elevating the rank of law the right to live fully in Greek is not to tear apart. I think there's a small semantic problem of verb interpretation. Mrs. Burgo López also says that this proposal goes beyond the banking institutions; I agree. Mrs. Sandra Vázquez, I don't think you've been very careful. We've given data and I think we have a normalization plan that is not met; we have the Peace Andrade Law, which is not met. What is done is the decree of plurilingualism. Surely you have on the phone one of these four banking entities, which are the only ones of the fourteen that are in agreement with the Fourteenth Union. Data, facts and not words, and much less insults, because you can't accuse us of any of the Members who are here, and it's very serious, Mrs. Sandra Vázquez, that we want to tear the tongue apart. No, no, no, no. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He said to "destroy"; "destroy" is synonymous with "destroy". Please! They measure a little the dimension and the consequences of their words. What is asked is right, and this year we justly share freedom, equality and justice. Do you know how many judgments are made in Justice? 5 % in English. This is a powerful fact. As strong data is also the bank's. I was on his phone. You'll probably have the telephone from Abanca, the one from Caixabank or the Glaga Rural Box or Targobank — which I didn't know —. Well, it's the four of fourteen -- don't distract me, please, Mrs. Paula. [[Murmurs.]] Four of fourteen is a target data and not at all one can do procedures in Welsh. This is intolerable, this is non-compliance with the laws. Because we have referred to the laws to which they should be accommodated. The laws are nidias. Guarantee, there's no guarantee, there's no guarantee. But not only does the Bureau say it, not only does the Observatory say it, but the UN representative said it in part. We read the whole thing, but it's an important part of what is being denounced as non-compliance. This, compared with other communities, is not receiptable. I move on now, because, Mrs. Sandra, we are three different groups, we share sensitivity and of course we have consciousness, round consciousness. You guys do a lot of fallacy. What we propose is a transaction collecting the three sensibilities, which I ask you to hear if you are still interested in approving this proposal. The Greek Parliament urges the Galician Union to promulgate and promote legal measures — because it says there is, but they are not enough — to guarantee the real and material reality of our language and to shield the linguistic rights of the Welsh and the Greek in trade relations. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María de la Concepción Burgo López and D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, on the preparation and presentation by the Government of Galicia in the Galician Parliament of a report on complaints or complaints lodged in the last six years for making the use of the official languages of Galicia, the type of response offered and the measures taken in this regard
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u129	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. President. For we will continue to talk about rights, linguistic rights, because the right to use either of the two official languages of this country is guaranteed by the Constitution; by the Statute; by the Law of Linguistic Standardization; by the Law of 7/2007, of the basic statute of the public employee; by the Law of 5/1997, of the Local Administration of Galicia; by the Law of 1/2010, to amend various laws for their adaptation to the directives of the European Parliament; by the Law of 2/2012, of consumer protection; by the Law of 1/2015, of guaranteeing the quality of services; and surely some more that I do not have here. In addition, the free choice of either of the two languages by international documents, such as the European Charter of Regional and Minorized Languages and the Universal Declaration of Linguistic Rights, is guaranteed. From both of them, because no one denies it's both here. Why do you guys get so nervous every time you ask for the rights to the Greek and interpret that we do it in front of the Spanish? It's incomprehensible. I don't know, it's a problem with you, it's not a language problem. But I also want to tell you something else, that the People's Party doesn't understand it, it doesn't understand its leader Pablo Married, well, just as it does now, because I think he's already studying German on this one hundred eighty-degree money order, and I think he even talks to Mr. Feijóo in no way. But you do not understand that the free choice of language is a guarantee of democracy, freedom and social progress and that it represents a democratic state based on the values of human rights, diversity and pluralism. This is what non-discrimination by language and language rights represent. But, despite the existence of all this legislation, they are not always guaranteed or not always respected, and they are not always respected by those who have the obligation to do so, which are the public administrations. All the international documents that we have say that German is discriminated against in this country, for example in the report on the Charter of Linguistic Rights. But, without knowing the conflict, the problems -- better -- the coexistence of the two languages, can be done perfectly by accepting this non-law proposition, because, knowing the complaints, the complaints, the consultations and the suggestions made by citizenship, in front of the Greek and Spanish, we will see if the two languages are also on equal terms. We all know it's not like that. But if you want a data check, you also accept this non-law proposal. It seems very relevant to us to know the data of complaints, complaints, consultations and suggestions from citizens, because, as I said, we will know the coexistence between the two languages, but we will also know the most conflicting areas, the most frequent errors in private administrations and companies and, therefore, the political actions that must be taken to ensure equality of choice and ensure equality of both languages. But the problem is we don't know this data. Data from complaints and from citizens' claims are never, ever, offered by the Language Policy Secretariat, at any of their appearances. So, all we know is the data offered by the Bureau by Normalization, which already says a lot, that we only have the data offered by a civil association, which, as you know and know, keeps "The Yellow Line", where citizens, with names and surnames and national identity document, can file their complaints. Annually, around 300 complaints are presented as average, in addition to a smaller number of consultations and suggestions, on topics such as distorted toponymity, discrimination and exclusion from Greek, non-care or oral denial as well as written in Greek. If we look at the entities involved, we'll see that a little more than 50% of the complaints and complaints refer to public administrations, both state and local and autonomous. And if you see these just isolated, you'll see how 45% of them refer to self-government. This is already giving us a data, and a worrying fact, because it's precisely the administrations, the ones that have to watch for linguistic rights, the ones that are violating these rights. And you might ask, how many complaints are there because of the use of Spanish? I mean, is there anyone? I already tell you not, because what you are complaining about and because what you are violating are the rights of Greek, because there is no problem in this country, against what you have often said and against what you are still saying, joining citizens and Vox; here the Spanish is not at all discriminated against. But if he was, and if any citizen is in that situation — it is true — he must claim and he has the right to return the law. Well, so you refer to a large part of the Administration. In private companies and entities, mainly large and medium-sized enterprises, what are they talking about? Basically, telephony services, the Internet; Naturgy is one of the great ones that are. By the way, talking to them, something that doesn't make the Government of Greece, always, can give results, as it's doing -- and I think it's fair to say -- a great company like Ikea, who just said that he took the Catalan away and the Euskera until he couldn't put the Welshman on his website. Why did the Bureau have to do this for Normalization and citizens? Because the German Government didn't, of course. Because the German Government seems to be for other things. We don't have official data, just a response from Language Policy, which tells us that between the years 2014 and 2017 122 complaints were received, which gives us an average of thirty. That's a lot to say. The fact is that it misses this very little number received in the Administration. Why? Because the administration's facilities for making these claims are null and void. Not a single email or a single phone, nor any instructions to make such complaints. On the other hand, facilitating the submission of complaints, suggestions and consultations on the use of official languages would really boost language rights and the standardization process. It's not censorship, it's not persecution. It's data to know what's going on and to remedy any problems. This is what the Basque Government is seeing, which has already launched in 2008 a service known as Elebide, which aims to guarantee the linguistic rights of citizenship and to raise awareness and inform citizens about these rights — of course, the Galician Union has never made a plan to raise awareness of the linguistic rights of one language and another — and to manage and process the complaints and complaints made in this area. And look where, too, the Basque Government annually makes, from the year 2008, a memory a year, which he presents in Parliament, reflecting all the complaints, consultations, problems, and also saying something that is fundamental, which is also what we also ask in this non-law proposal: let us also be told, that all measures taken in Parliament to remedy citizens' right to free choice of language are introduced. And, as you can read perfectly in our provision, we're talking about all the complaints and complaints filed over the last six years before the competent services of the Galician Council for making it difficult to use some of Galician official languages. I pretended to do this, since here seems to be the only argument you have is that we have to refer to the two languages. I don't just do it orally, I did it in writing. Now see what you have to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u132	Thank you, President. Good day again. I, Mrs. Vázquez, don't know if you come here to cheat on the lonely, deceive yourself, try to fool us all. Mrs Vázquez has seen earlier, because we continue to debate the same language rights and the degree of non-compliance with linguistic rights in all areas of our lives, and Mrs Vázquez comes here to give us percentages of oral use. We just had to be forbidden to speak German when we entered the bank door! We just needed to be banned from speaking German when we entered the bank door! [[Applause]] But the debate before, in case someone was walking around, I don't know if they were looking for the center sailing, right? it was about the right of access to documentation in our country's own language. Let's do something: somebody tell me a place in this country where there's no Spanish mortgage, somewhere in this country where there's no contract to open a savings account in a Spanish banking entity, somewhere where they don't send you home the Spanish phone bill, a note where you can't sign your Spanish house, a movie room where you can't go to a Spanish movie, a daily newspaper in this country where there's no Spanish news. It's a coat of hair, really, in Parliament, trying to deny reality, of whom it has the responsibility, in addition, as a party that supports the Government, to ensure the fulfilment and scrupulously respect of the linguistic rights of the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Murmurs.]] And I insist that these are not the rights of one part of the Galicians and the Greeks. [[Applause]] Ensuring the rights of society as a whole makes societies more just and more democratic, whether or not they are people of Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] And that is also what the Socialist Parliamentary Group initiative is about, on the collection of complaints or complaints made by the Greeks and the Greeks who see or have violated their linguistic rights in their relations with the public administration. He also referred to Mrs Burgo, in fact, through the "The Yellow Line", which is a service made available to the whole of this country by the Bureau for Linguistic Standardization, in the last one, in the most recent published, almost half, 46% of the complaints before the "The Yellow Line" refer to the public administration, highlighting in addition those directed to the municipalities, at 36%; the Galician Health Service, at 12%; or the Galician Board itself, in its various areas or departments, at 33%. They will remember all their lordships, especially those people who are from Lugo, as language rights have been violated at the headquarters of the board of Galicia, in the multi-purpose building of the board in Lugo, not so long ago in this legislation. We agree that a report should be drawn up, if it is presented at Parliamentary level in relation to complaints or complaints that have been made over the past six years. Furthermore, the Council of Galicia has record of all complaints and complaints that are presented in the "The Line of the Galician", and that, therefore, the measures taken by the Government of this country to restore and guarantee the linguistic rights of all the people who live and work in this country are also brought to the attention of this House. In addition, we have a tool that could be used precisely to compile that data, which is the Galaga Language Observatory, which is a tool that could perfectly serve to do that recompilation, so that you don't have to do it Mr. Valentín García directly if you don't want, an organism that was created with an objective also to be able to measure, to be able to test, to be able to analyze the progress of the normalization process, the guarantee and respect for the linguistic rights of the Greeks and the Greeks, and that you have to do so because — I don't know — inert, sleeping the dream of the righteous, converted into a very expensive way and repository of news on the other hand, and ignoring the functions for which it was created, which is that data recompilation and that analysis in depth, especially of trends in a fringe of time to be able to analyze how they are advancing or backwarding things. We have already proposed, among other things, in Commission 4a, that this observatory should fulfil the functions for which it was created, and the People's Party, as always, as always — and will again happen today, I am very afraid, Mrs Burgo and Mrs Cuña — will vote against. Because you have no intention or intention to comply with the Statute or the Law of Linguistic Standardization, or the General Plan, of what is now agreed upon...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u133	Finish, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u134	... nor any of the measures that are set in the legal order of this country to advance the presence of the Greek. What you can't come here is to deny a reality that the Academy, the Council of Culture, the Bureau for Linguistic Normalization...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u135	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u136	...have come warning: there is one process of replacing one language with another. You can really profile each time you want, because that won't make reality change.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u137	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u138	Well, we're really going to go on, because both initiatives are complementary. Of course, the proposal is quite appropriate. Why don't we have that data? Why don't we? Why don't they make the real numbers of use public? Why? It's just that this once again finds there's a lack of planning. If I don't plan well, I can't evaluate. And this is obvious. Then I would also like to remember -- because I think it's welcome -- when the PP arrived in 2009 to this Government and quote the literal words, as a reflection, that you said almost a decade ago. The electoral campaign was based entirely on sowing lies against the Greek. So the current president of the board, you know what he said? That in Galicia we have an unprecedented linguistic conflict on the table, created, of course, by whom? By the Bipartisan Government. He claimed, for that reason, to decoy the language. Two performances that actually concealed the will to leave, even more, the presence of the Greek in public life. This is undeniable. They accuse us today. What a shame, what a shame! For the last ten years it seemed that they had given up fighting so explicitly against our language. But it was a pause, a pause that was recently disassembled. Why? Because, in fact, now that the People's Party tries to dispute the space of ultra-right Vox and Citizens—poor the president, who is between two forces, the forces of the right, ultra-right and extreme right, as they want to call them, and the forces of opposition and the left, with horns and tail—because they come here with this holy defeat to tell us that we are the ones who want to disrupt and who want to crush. And it's not receipt. What Mr. Pablo Casado did recently, we know, has already spoken here. And what did Mr. President Feijóo say? That knowledge was not with us; it passed from points. Well, now he's turning, because he wants to go downtown. There's an obvious thing: linguistic plurality... what happened? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Linguistic plurality is a wealth. That's where we all agree. Look, there's something we agree on, but to protect, maintain and put into value. The situation in our language is serious. Even though they say Mass, we are far, far away, from the competence of students in Greek being similar to that of Spanish competition. Of course you understand! I'd just miss it! The implementation of multilingual centres, for example, resulted in the exclusion and marginalization of our language, as a vehicle language, without any progress in the knowledge of foreign languages, nor if it bet on a very inclusive multilingual language. What picks up our language framework is obvious. The PP, your party, is responsible for the decline in the use of our language. It develops—if—the decree, the foreign language empowerment plan, with a very negative impact, but, as we have no evaluation, it remains in the air. It's all right. It is true that lies sleep and we have to wake up from falling asleep and become aware, because that decree or that Decree 79/2010 is neither clear nor significant, nor is it shared — no one has shared this decree — nor is it an identity. Finally, with respect — and I reiterate — to the constant reduction in the budget in linguistics, it is more than 73% and it places our language in historical minima. What's it coming from? In the legal retreat that prevents that basic right from living fully in English. To conclude, say that of course we will support the proposal of the Socialist Party of Galicia. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Novo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u140	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Let me begin by reading Article 1 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure: "English and Spanish will be the official languages of the Galician Parliament. Members can make separate use of both languages. Official publications of the Galician Parliament shall be bilingual." [[Applause]] Having said this, Mrs Burgo, because in the explanatory statement it refers both to article 5 of the Statute of Galicia and to the Law of Linguistic Standardization, and I want to express — as could not be otherwise — our absolute respect for the current legal framework, because — it is more — this Government of the People's Party has approved the Standardization Law, the General Plan of Standardization of the Greek language. In this sense, in Galicia we have complied with the law, in Galicia we adhere to the normative framework that we have given ourselves among ourselves and in Galicia we continue to abide by the Constitution and continue to abide by both the Statute and the Law of Linguistic Standardization. So we can't agree with you when they say that in Galicia laws are not complied with in relation to the Greek language. Throughout this morning, we see once again that the opposition does not demarcate itself from its catastrophic speech in the field of language; always the same speech, always. And reality is different, Your Honor. The language in Galicia is no problem — and you know it. We agree with co-officiality, as the Constitution marks and defends the People's Party. Faced with monolingualism, bilingualism, as the president said this morning. Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, is a model of cordial bilingualism... and is a model of bilingualism — yes — harmonic too. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We have two official languages, which live in balance, which live with respect and without taxes. A model of coexistence for the Greeks and the Greeks, which, as has already been said here, enriches us culturally, which is a great wealth, as well for other communities with co-official languages, in which a use is made, not of coexistence, but of taxation, of political confrontation. You see, we also defend the Greek, and we speak the Greek, and the Greek, Your Honor, is no one's property, in spite of some who think they do. It is the Greeks and the Greeks who decide how to express themselves freely. Therefore, the English language that needs is cordiality, it needs coexistence, it needs respect, equality and tolerance. [[Applause]] If we take this into account, ladies and gentlemen, what the official data gathers, to the ones which referred today to in the morning the president, both the use and knowledge of the Greek language is far superior to any other community in the Spanish state with a co-official language, and this is a pride for all. In the People's Party we live in Galicia, where using the two languages does not mean any difficulty or conflict, because we really live in real Galicia, when others live in unreal worlds where one or another of the languages is missing, persecuted or discriminated against. And we don't want that for our land. That Galicia will not exist while ruling the People's Party. [[Applause]] As for the complaints you speak of on the initiative in relation to the use of Greek, you know that they are processed by the General Secretariat of Linguistic Policy, which is the body of the Autonomous Community of Galicia in charge of everything related to linguistic policy, being the decree of 2013 which collects the functions you refer to in your proposal. It is therefore the Language Policy Secretariat itself which follows the procedure of the complaints submitted, opening the dossier in order to guide and resolve the claims. To conclude, I reiterate again, as I have already done in several speeches, that we must use linguistic debate not as an opportunistic political weapon nor as an element of confrontation, because what the Greeks are asking us for is consensus and progress in this direction. And for all this we are going to support this initiative, Mrs Burgo, which calls for a detailed report on the complaints made over the past six years to be drawn up and submitted at parliamentary headquarters. [[Murmurs.]] And we are going to support it because we believe in the measures put in place in recent years, because we believe in transparency and because we believe that the results will support the policies made in Galicia for the promotion of the Greek language. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u141	Thank you, Mrs. New. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u142	First of all, I want to thank you for the support — it seems to be — of the whole House, even though Mrs New, in use so because of one who does not know, has kept us in expectation... very well, because it is much more pleasant. [[Murmurs.]] But look, I want to talk to Mrs. New, if you'll excuse me. First, I mean... new, right? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, then, New. I want to congratulate you for respecting the laws. It seems to me that, as they do and say again and again that they respect it, they deserve to be congratulated. I would also like to remind you that the Law on Linguistic Standardization and the General Plan has approved the whole House, unanimously, Mrs New, not the PP. No, it's not a law of the PP, it's not a law of the Government of Fraga, it's a law passed by this House, which is where the laws are passed. [[Applause]] And that means a consensual law and that means that all of us, all of us, had to give up things in order to reach an agreement. And that means that this is the spirit that this Parliament should also carry out with Mr Feijóo, in which there is absolutely no sign of that quest for consensus. Because you, Mrs Novo, say that it is unacceptable to use the language as an opportunistic political weapon. Look, Mrs. New, fair, fair, just is what you did, the PP, in 2009, when you used the language to win a vote. [[Applause]] You guys did that. And if it's intolerable, it's intolerable that you used language as an electoral tool. And I'm worried -- and the truth is, I'm very glad you're going to approve it -- your answers. Because, really, now that they're back in the center, it's becoming more and more like Vox and Ciudadanos. It's just worrying. It's absolutely disturbing what you say. [[Murmurs.]] I'm glad you approve it, because it's a measure that will prove how the problem of languages in Galicia is not Spanish, as much as you said in 2009, as much as you're saying now, as much as you say that it can be the rights of Spanish speakers who are in the middle of this country. Because complaints and complaints refer primarily to the Greek, but if there are complaints about the Spanish, there is also a need to correct those attitudes, of course yes. I believe, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that they should come back, yes, come back a little more, well, come back no, find the center on some occasion, and find policies to promote our identity and pride of our identity and to promote our language. [[Murmurs.]] Because, you know what's going on? That's democracy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u143	Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. on the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr José Luis Rivas Cruz and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the possible allocation of the activity of waste management industries and the use of agricultural fertilizers derived from the mud of purification in the health of the population and in the normal state of the soils and aquifers of the Somozas municipality
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u144	There are no amendments. To formulate the non-law proposal, Mr. Rivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. Ladies and gentlemen, once again the BNG brings to this Parliament the concern, the alarm and the protest of the neighbours of the Somozas for an unsustainable and powerless situation. It's not the first time we've done it, and that's the sad thing. Somozas is a municipality in the north of the country that has long accumulated a large part of the shelters of all Galicia. Sologas, Sogarisa and Xiloga are three of the waste management companies installed in this municipality and full activity. It's a curious town hall: its industrial activity and its resources revolve around shelters. All he didn't want because of his danger was to stop there — neighbor's words. And I'm going to give you another data: your corporation, composed of nine concellers, is monocolor, blue sky; the seagulls are in Sogarisa. [[Applause]] The circular economy and bio-economics are increasingly current concepts of social need and also increasingly driven and distorted by political characterization. As they are used in a spurious manner, it is necessary to invent other words to recover the illusion of pure fantasy. The garbage is garbage and the contamination looks and smells; then it feels like rare diseases that one day appear and nobody knows why. For all this, waste management, its effectiveness and its recycling is a matter that worries the general population and, in particular, those affected in some way, and will certainly be the central problem to be solved in the very near future. At the moment, management in its different modalities is nothing more than a very misleading business that counts with the complicity of the departments of the Greek Government, which make the view fat, and the wastes will spread to diminish their impact. In the town hall of Somozas and surroundings, depending on where the wind comes from, the smell is unbearable. It is possibly an infectious smell from the handling of dried sludge to manufacture a fertilizer for agricultural use. Tecnosols are also manufactured. Tecnosolo — what a great invention! —. The technosol made according to the cannons that mark the law should be a mixture of industrial wastes, remnants of construction and demolition, muds of debugging and other miscellaneous that, properly mixed, give an infected land form that can only be used, can only be used, to regenerate degraded spaces, industrial floors, quarrying, mines, debris and severely eroded soils. Its application is prohibited on meadows, wetlands, riverheads and margins, water uptakes... this by law, let's say no more by common sense. For nothing, which is used cheerfully in fertile lands, meadows, high-pitched valleys, headwaters and rivers, flowing from the Jubia and Mera and in springs. Nothing. These are greens in every rule disguised as organic amendments with severe environmental pollution and health risk. There's again the BNG Mini in alarm plan. They have it easy: they go around the Somozas and drink water from their springs, if they have noses; they suck in the cool air or bathe in the waters of the Mera, where they wave that wonderful recreational area that has cost a lot by and which is covered by the woods. Those technosols were used all around: Naron, Moeche, The Bridges, Monfero, they almost arrived at the Chapel. In 2013 a complaint from Adega stopped this. No, no, no, no. Come back again. Another of these companies produces a celebrated fertilizer called digestate. Six or seven months ago they took him to a farm in San Simón da Costa the digestate — by the way, from the cheeses of San Simón. He was thrown into a juror pit in a farm and two calves died and three people in the house went to a medical center to be cared for. I'm not making anything up, it's true. I saw that product and had plastic wet in the middle, curiously yellow. I was in the middle of fermentation in a huge field waiting to be used in Sobrerado dos Monxes. In fermentation, in fermentation, against the law. He throws them in the wind park, in the mountain, in the slopes of the Mera river, about five kilometers, up not because it's where he takes the water, but on the slopes of the river Jubia yes, the dog. No way. It's raining and in the villages of Pastoroza, Montecalvo, Guntille, Gradaílle, Cargos, they're very affected because they throw a lot of fertilizer from this one. That's words. Speaking of the story with the mayor, this said that the blame lies with the one who asks for them — that is, the words of a neighbor. And here we are. Once again, we bring the voice of the neighbors, tired of stumbling against the wall of the nine PP concelers, who, by the mouth of their mayor, come to say — I repeat — that it is the fault of those who ask them to throw them out. Are there laws to be enforced, Mr. Mayor? Periodically, fires are produced in another company's spill glass; some, like less than a month ago, with a column of smoke that has been seen from far away and which was unbearable. This fact, which we dare say is not random, because it's periodic, helps to reduce volume and give more capacity to the vase of the dump. It also contributes to more powerful leaching. I'll tell you about a trip. I moved to Somozas in April 2018. I was going to see a quarry and someone suggested that he go down to see the Mera River as he was. And I've been down from the industrial polygon. On a stretch of the road down the Mera River I found myself with a huge cataract, a boil, a stinking liquid with milky foam, and a dark, pestilent green color, which came down the hillside below. There, between the rocks, in the view, is the vegetation of the mountain. Beneath, between the rocks and the vegetation, it overcomes unqualifying remains, with a smell of permanent rot. And in the springtime they don't sing birds. In all that friar, nobody sings, not even the streams. Ladies and gentlemen, I filed a complaint to 112 and was answered the following day, because it was eight and a half o'clock in the evening, it was between lusco and wood that the complaint was raced. They warned them to be careful because they told me most of them were standing at the bottom of a drawer. And they warned them not to grab their fingers, warning them of my condition as a deputy... yes, yes, to protect, precisely, those who are afraid. [[Murmurs.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, those who are afraid. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, those who are afraid, yes, lords of the People's Party, and who deny me information. On January 17, I asked for the results of this complaint, and I was shocked because this PNL was being discussed here today. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, things are like this, they are like this. You're questioning me about that gentleman who's called Mr. Dani Vega to see if he's really asking me. Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement we propose to you is no less than to comply with the law. I'll buy the lei. Why? Because if the Somozas continue to throw technosols anywhere, both in the wind park and in the hillsides that descend to the Jubia River and the Mera River, because if the Somozas continue to have constant pestilent scents, which vary as the air comes, something is boiling there. Because if the Somozas get out of trucks and the first one gets out and the rest doesn't, with fertilizers that we don't know what they are, there's going to be an inspection. Because if Somozas is a monocolor council, something weird happens, something weird happens! And it's a dependency... something weird happens! Therefore, our request, our proposal — if, something rare, does it happen? — ladies and gentlemen, is that the inspections and controls that they consider appropriate in the waste management industries and in the vicinity of the leached poles, and in the places and plots where they have been and are using mud as fertilizers, to preserve the health of the population and the normal state of soils and aquifers in the Somozas Town Council. Is anyone opposed to this? Is there anyone who opposes this in this House, even in the public? I don't think so! And that protocols of analytical and control are established in agricultural fertilizers derived from sewage sludges, so that they are always kept below the parameters required by the legality of the vigency and integrity of agricultural soils. Is anyone opposed? Tell him, tell him clearly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u146	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Now we're going to greet the students and students of the ESO and of the bachelor's degree of the Ancoechea Quevedo German Center, of the Poor Trives. Welcome to Parliament, as well as to your teachers and the people who accompany you. You have the floor, for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Pérez Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u147	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Greeting also the students of the Poor Trives. With regard to the initiative presented to us today by the Galego Nationalist Block, saying that the industrial polygon of the Somozas Town Hall has become the main centre for the treatment of Welsh industrial waste, since the three companies that are installed there recycle much of the waste from all over Galicia. A priori, to reuse a waste to convert it into a resource is positive, the problem lies in that the treatments that take place may not be adequate and eventually contaminate the land from which the cows from which we feed their milk and eat their meat. This is not to mention the unbearable situation that neighbors and neighbors have to endure with respect to the smell that comes from some of the plants. In addition, the techniques not used in the treatment of waste infect lands where cereals are planted for livestock food or vegetables, fruit etc., for domestic use, even filtering up to the river Mera, as Mr Rivas said before. Or also the fountains that the neighbors and neighbors of the Somozas Town Hall have in their houses for private use or for animals, for example. He very much draws attention to the fact that Seprona or the environmental agents do not file any complaints against the spills that occur there, as Mr Rivas had said before. I don't know, maybe you have something to do with the monocolor government of the nine concellers of the Somoza Town Hall. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, yes, of course. And the complaints are left in a drawer? Or there are no complaints to... yes, yes, it's a reality that they have a council that governs with nine concellers. [[Interruptions.]] Yes, but if fear is fear, as Mr. Rivas says... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Returning to the initiative, I used to mention that agricultural fertilizers derived from sludges are waste that, treated and used correctly, do not pose any risk to either the population or the environment. However, when treatment is inappropriate, things are quite different, as I have already pointed out with numerous examples, with direct effects on the environment and population. The protocols of analytical and control of these fertilizers must be more stringent, as they are sometimes used improperly, because many times this waste is given to companies' inability to keep storing them, and at other times companies only charge farmers or farmers for their transportation to the farms. In some of these waste companies there are also very striking fires that occur, two, three or more times a year; fires with which the company decreases the volume of waste and it already has the capacity to store more material. These fires, provoked or not, are a danger to the workers and workers and also generate an unbearable smell for the neighbors and neighbors of the Somoza Town Hall, which appears covered in its entirety with a black cloud. For all this, we believe that we need to support this initiative, since the only thing that demands - although the PP does not see it this way - is to comply with the rules for the proper functioning of Somoza waste plants. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u148	Thank you, Mr. Pérez Seco. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u149	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I wanted to greet the children and children of my land, the towns of Trives, Manzaneda, Chandrexa de Queixa and Castro Caldelas. Welcome to Parliament! I'm going to read a series of press releases from the Greek newspapers. "Anth fire in a dump in As Somozas", April 13, 2019. "Fire in the landfill of As Somozas." El Correo Gallego, April 26, 2019. "New fire in the Xiloga landfill in As Somozas," July 8, 2018. "Arden waste accumulated in a landfill of Xiloga in As Somozas", January 2, 2019. "Fire a dump from the Xiloga plant in As Somozas," July 23, 2012. "The fire in the landfill of As Somozas was burning more than five hours," April 28, 2010. Every time this guy's fire occurs, he goes to Grumir, there he goes to Civil Protection, there he goes to the fire department, there he goes to the Civil Guard. I understand that the Environmental Council will spend this on guilty businesses, as they do when a farmer or a farmer escapes a burn from a stacked debris. And as Mr. Rivas said, it's at least suspicious that they happen so often, unless they're provoked to decrease the volume of what they've stored there. What measures has the Galician Union taken so far so that these episodes of fire are not repeated today yes, too? Today the People's Party brought a non-law proposition to this House that Mr Trenor here defended, where he said, "Climatism is a reality that can be verified by observing the environment around us; a reality that is affecting the whole planet and that causes negative effects on essential elements like water." You've got a lot of poppies. And I'm saying you've got a lot of poppies because the leached come down the hillside and they're going to stop at the Mera River. Contamination on the Mera River? Contaminate the water. The misuse as fertilizers of the technosols in farms and furrows is contaminating the subsoil and aquifers, that essential element to which Mr Trenor referred in his non-law proposal. But this problem isn't just about the Somozas, this is happening in Touro, this is happening on the threshold, this is happening all over the country, without the People's Party doing anything. And this misuse of technosol fertilizer, this increasingly common practice in Galicia, also has an impact on the neighbours and neighbours that live there. On the one hand, the smell, on the other hand, that there is no adequate control, with the risk that this can bring to people's health. The powers in this area depend on the Environment Council. In 2012 it adopted a decree to regulate the use of sewage sludge in the agricultural sector, on the basis of the need to adapt to Community legislation and state legislation on contaminated waste and soil. And we were talking here about adapting them to the peculiar features of the Greek community, so we see that it is more necessary than ever to adopt this proposal. It is also true that the very standard that the Government of Greece has approved in that decree presents lakes, because it does not implement the security measures in its transfers, because it does not specify the restrictions on depositing them on nearby farms, does not specify the restrictions on depositing them on the banks of rivers and streams, nor does it speak of the sanctions that could have these irregular practices. Today, from En Marea we think it is necessary to approve this non-law proposal from the Galego Nationalist Block, because we are asking that inspections and controls be carried out in these waste management industries in the vicinity of them by the deposit of leached and in the sites and plots where they have been and are using mud as fertilizers, to preserve the health of the population and the normal state of the ground and aquifers. And it is necessary to pass this proposal today so that children like John, such as Analía or Antía, or children like Anxo can live in a better Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u150	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr. Blanco Paradelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u151	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. I also want to take the opportunity to greet those who visit us, especially the people of Ourense province, oriental oresan. I want to start by saying that listening to you may well seem that we live in the law of the jungle or in some other country of those which are relevant to you, where respect for the environment and health leaves much to be desired, as if Galicia did not take into account the broad rules of European legislation or state legislation on this matter. So by approving this LNP we could send a wrong message, which here each one does what he wants, that there is no environmental or health control, and that, as you know, is not true. On the other hand, we are also faced with the usual strategy, to destabilize institutions, administration, technicians, workers, reports themselves, and with a novelty in this case, which is to blame people for voting for the People's Party. Mr. Rivas, first you started by saying that it was a cry, that it was a great demand, and on the other hand you were surprised that it was a monocolor corporation, that they only voted for the People's Party. Home!, perhaps you have to think about whether the other groups are doing their job there or whether people are so disgusted or angry with the mayor as you want to move here. I don't know, I think that's a reflection, because of course, the strange concept of democracy that you practice! I also told the Socialist Party that in the previous corporation there was a conciliator of the Socialist Party who then wanted to join the Government Group. So you'll know who they put in front of their applications and whether they agree or disagree with what the mayor and the corporation do, for whom we ask for all respect. As you know, the companies Sologas and Xiloga have clear authorizations, and they are also under the Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control Act. They also have integrated environmental authorisations, a strict control and follow-up by Junta, in accordance with the provisions of the Technical Waste Instruction of 8 January 2008, of the then General Directorate for Environmental Quality and Assessment of the Bipartisan Government, concerning the manufacture of tecnosol soils, derived from waste, which establishes strict limits and controls applicable to the elaboration, composition and application of these materials on the ground. And Mr. Rivas said, what a great invention! We're talking about a 2008 instruction. By the way, the integrated environmental authorizations are only those that make the Bipartite, as in the case of Ence, or are those that make all the technicians? But you don't realize that most of the technicians who are now reporting at the Galician Council also issued them when the Bipartite ruled, and will they continue to issue them when successive governments come? Why do you criticize the public workers and their work? So, Mr. Rivas, I don't know if you don't know if you know the existence of this decree and the application of this instruction, although I think you don't know it, but you're in the strategy of always: i.e., the Bipartite creates a standard, which in theory is good, and then the governments of the People's Party arrive and don't apply it well. Remind me of the Mining Law. You, with the Industry Council, make a mining law, grant a hundred research permits and forty-three exploration licenses, and it turns out that the People's Party now applies that law and must be against all these mining projects. It seems to me true political falsity, Mr. Rivas. With regard to the manufacture of fertilizers and composites, mention should be made of the Royal Decree 506/2013 on fertilizers, and the Royal Decree 865/2010 on cultivation substrates, expressly mentioned by the full environmental authorisations of Xiloga and Sologas. With regard to debugger sludges, it should be recalled that the 2012 Decree regulates the authorization of debugger sludges in the autonomous community, does not support its direct application on the ground, but only the products for treatment of debugger sludges, whose elaboration and application is also subject to extensive demands. So, Mr. Rivas, here nothing to ask for - as you say - appropriate controls. No, no, what you're doing here is strict compliance with the law, that no one has any doubt. And of course, Mr. Rivas, we thank him for his allegations. Do them, and do them without fear, because we live in democracy. Do them without fear, don't you mean to say there's fear, no, no. You do without fear all the complaints, which will be welcomed in good measure. And also tell him there's got to be strict and don't make the sense that nothing had been done. I've heard none here say that both from the Environmental Council and from the waters of Galicia are already conducting the inspections, and we can say whether we agree or not. And look, I also have to tell you that, of course, no maximum rigour that can be reflected in the regulations and conditions of the authorizations on waste management that it develops, not even all the completeness that is displayed in the control of its compliance, can guarantee 100 percent that there will be no bad spells or non-compliances, and surely some example we all know. Mr. Rivas, the Galician Union and its Government don't improvise, plan, and for that, he also developed Galicia's first Environmental Inspection Plan 2013-2018, as well as the second plan for the period 2019-2024. Therefore, let no one have any doubt that the one who does not have to pay.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u152	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u153	Finally, before I finish, tell you about the lack of information, Mr. Rivas, that you know they made the whole file available to you. You know that you were told that you had to see this file in the dependencies of the Galician Union because first it's a large volume file; secondly, there are many data such as bank accounts, CIF, etc., that you have to observe, especially taking into account the Data Protection Act. Therefore, you and any neighbor have at their disposal, to see it, the documentation. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u154	Thank you, Mr. Blanco. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It has to be very sad, very hard, defending the indefensible and not knowing physically what we're talking about. You're answering me with decrees, more decrees, more papers and more linked to a festering and dangerous reality. That's your role, and it's a really sad role. Mining law, it's the only way they're going. Yesterday, a sanctioning file against the company Exploitations Galicians was launched for unauthorized works at the head of the Portapego River in Touro. They diverted their course, suiting themselves with public water. But this is years ago, huh? This has been done for years. And you were quiet, quiet and quiet in your chair, in your armchairs, controlling the businesses that interest you, of course, that's right! [[Murmurs.]] You have to say it cruelly. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You have to say it cruelly. [[Applause]] You see, once again they refuse to comply with the law, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u156	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u157	Mr. Tellado, I know the face of fear reflected in people's eyes. And that fear, that fear... [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u158	Quiet, quiet. Silence! Mr. Tellado, be quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u159	...and that fear, fruit...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u160	Mr. Tellado, Mr. Tellado, I call you by order!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u161	Does it hurt?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u162	Silence, Mr. Tellado! I'll call you in order! I don't want to call you back in order. Silence! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u163	Throw him out. Throw him out.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u164	Mr. Tellado, call to order. Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u165	I saw the face of fear reflected in people's eyes, that fear fruited by the threat of borrowed work, of the due silence, of seeing, hearing and silence. The fear of the masters! The fear of renunciation to say what one thinks! That fear that will engender mortgaged societies, no future. The nine nine concellers. You have to have the courage to go on a list other than the one that doesn't get into politics! The one that doesn't get involved in politics.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u166	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u167	Because going with you is not to get involved in politics. Of course, of course! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Maybe I'm wrong, maybe...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u168	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u169	I'm leaving, Mr. President. No, no, no, no. I quit.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u170	Quiet, quiet. Your time is up. Well, you've voluntarily abandoned... No, now it's over, now it's over. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Now it's over, Mr. Rivas. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u171	I quit forcefully. [[Applause]] Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u172	You left voluntarily, I didn't force you to leave. I didn't force anyone to leave. Let's vote. Tell him to vote. Notice that there is a vote. I rang the bell twice. Tell Mr. Rivas we're going to vote, please. [[Mr Rivas utters words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Rivas, the intervention is over. Quiet. Mr. Rivas, this is over, it's over. It's over, it's over, now we're going to vote. Quiet. Silence! Please! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Another initiative whenever you want. It's over, it's over. Quiet. We vote. Now we're going to vote. Please, be quiet, be quiet. [[Mr. Rivas Cruz and one honourable Member speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please! I'll suspend the full. I'll suspend the full. Quiet, let's vote! We vote. This is difficult, it's difficult for everyone. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, quiet! I also recognize that I don't know why all this came about. I was talking to Mrs. Sandra Vázquez at the time, she was talking... I don't know. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry, I'm talking, I'm talking. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Wherever I have to apologize, I ask them. At that moment I was talking to Mrs. Sandra Vázquez and I didn't know what had happened. I therefore ask you to renew your behaviour as Members, and we also have a public eye today. [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's vote, please. We begin by voting, if it seems to you, if you have good, the non-law proposition of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez. The amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block is accepted as an addendum. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martinez, on the activities to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the school map of Galicia, the model of school dining rooms and the school transport service. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes in favour, 36. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u173	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Don Maria Julia Rodríguez Barreira, on the start by the Government of Galicia in 2019, of the recruitment of construction projects, as well as of the drafting of the environmental impact report of the truce The Poor of San Xiao-Nadela from the high-performance track Lugo-Monforte de Lemos. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please don't let me in here. I'm reading and I don't know. And Bureau members, please, a little bit of collaboration too, if not, there's no control. The amendment of the En Marea Parliamentary Group is not accepted. There is a proposal for a transaction through an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block and the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Socialists. Would you like to read?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u174	Thank you, Mr. President. We have reached a compromise text with the Socialist Group in the following terms: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to begin the recruitment in 2019 of the construction and environmental impact projects of the truce The Poor of San Xiao-Nadela, in order to make final progress in the total deployment of this infrastructure, bearing in mind the future unfolding of the Sarria-Monforte frame, to address once the Sarria-Lugo frame is materialized."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u175	We vote for that transaction. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Julia Rodríguez Barreira and six other Members, on the start of the Government of Galicia, in 2019, of the hiring of construction projects as well as the drafting of the environmental impact report of the truce The Poor of San Xiao-Nadela from the high-performance track Lugo-Monforte de Lemos. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 69. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u176	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group at the initiative of Mrs Presas Berganginos, There is a self-amendment accepted, of course, and an amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, where the first point is accepted, the second point is not accepted, and I also proposed a point vote. That's five points.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u177	At the request of the Socialist Group, we would vote on point 1 and 5 in a block, and on the rest.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u178	Right, we voted first of all on points 1 and 5. Yeah? No, no, quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You have the right to speak to the wife of the initiative. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u179	Yeah, we don't mind voting every point, then. Does Marea want to vote or...? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We can vote on 1, 2, 3 and 4, and then on 5.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u180	All separately. Let's vote point 1. Vote of point 1 of the proposed non-law G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantinos, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demand to be made to the Central Government to ensure the maintenance of the production centres and Alcoa jobs in Galicia, as well as the establishment of a new industrial electricity tariff for the electrointensive industry. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 36; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. Point 1 of this text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u181	Let's vote point 2. Vote of point 2 of the proposed non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantinos, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demand to be made to the Central Government to ensure the maintenance of the production centres and Alcoa jobs in Galicia, as well as the establishment of a new industrial electricity tariff for the electrointensive industry. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes in favour, 36. The result of the vote is negative. Point 2 of this text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u182	Let's vote point 3. Vote of point 3 of the proposed non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantinos, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demand to be made to the Central Government to ensure the maintenance of the production centres and Alcoa jobs in Galicia, as well as the establishment of a new industrial electricity tariff for the electrointensive industry. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes in favour, 36. The result of the vote is negative. Point 3 of this text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u183	Let's vote point 4. Vote of point 4 of the proposed non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantinos, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demand to be made to the Central Government to ensure the maintenance of the production centres and Alcoa jobs in Galicia, as well as the establishment of a new industrial electricity tariff for the electrointensive industry. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 36; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. Point 4 of this text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u184	Let's vote point 5. Vote of point 5 of the proposed non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantinos, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demand to be made to the Central Government to ensure the maintenance of the production centres and Alcoa jobs in Galicia, as well as the establishment of a new industrial electricity tariff for the electrointensive industry. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 6; votes against, 36; abstentions, 26. The result of the vote is negative. Point 5 of this text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u185	The next vote will be taken by the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Mr Marcos Cal, in which a transaction was pending. If he doesn't... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do all groups know this transaction? So we voted for this transaction. [[Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo Rodríguez asks for the floor.]] Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo, why do you want the word? Give a voice to Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u186	Mr President, since there is a transaction between the groups, the People's Group wants to make clear the commitment it has to the development of the 2014 Law, which is why we call for a point vote. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u187	Do you accept the point vote, Mr. Cal?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u188	We would accept the vote by points 1 and 2 together and 3 separately.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u189	1 and 2...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u190	1 and 2 one vote and 3 another vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u191	...the 3 and the 4 separate? Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo, will you accept that...?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u192	We call for a separate vote. The three points separately.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u193	She doesn't accept it. We voted on the proposal as it is. We vote. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet. Attention to the outcome of the vote, please. Silence! [[Murmurs.]] Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of D. Marcos Cal Ogango and Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to health care for transsexual patients and the requirements required for their access to transitional medical procedures, as well as legal recognition of their identity. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes in favour, 36. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u194	We voted for the People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Gonzalo Trenor. Amendments to other groups are not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Gonzalo Trenor and seven other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Galicia in order to ensure the supply of water to the population in the face of possible drought situations. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 36; votes in favour, 20; abstentions, 13. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u195	We now vote in favour of the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Mrs Ángeles Cuña. It's already been read from the scene to the transaction. We voted for this transaction. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Angeles Cuña Bóveda and da Luca Chao Pérez, About the performances that must take place in Galicia in relation to the use of Greek in banking institutions. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes in favour, 36. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u196	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Concepción Burgo. No amendments were tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María de la Concepción Burgo López and D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, on the preparation and presentation by the Government of Galicia in the Galician Parliament of a report on complaints or complaints lodged in the last six years for making the use of the official languages of Galicia, the type of response offered and the measures taken. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 69. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u197	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Rivas Cruz. No amendments were tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr José Luis Rivas Cruz and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the possible impact of the waste management industries and the use of agricultural fertilizers derived from the mud of purification in the health of the population and in the normal state of the soils and aquifers of the Somozas Town Hall. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes in favour, 36. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u198	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. We continue with the agenda at this fourth point, which are interpelerations. La Noa Presas Bergantiños and five other members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the needs to improve rail transport in Galicia, in particular between Ourense and The Coruña and Santiago de Compostela
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u199	To formulate the inquiry you have the floor to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u200	Good morning to all and to all. Mrs Vázquez, today by the Galego Nationalist Block, we bring back to this session a matter that is a priority for the BNG: to point out and end the aggravating and discrimination which in rail matters our country suffers because of the decisions of the Central Government, of the successive central governments, whatever their colour, and which affect in a very special way within this country. Discrimination, moreover, which is always compounded by the lack of commitment, initiative and political weight of the Galician Union. I would appreciate a little silence because it is a little awkward to start the debate like this. For example, we could talk about Lugo's isolation, how it took them up to five hours between Lugo, passing through Ourense, to get to Santiago de Compostela. We could put other examples, like that shot example that if a person in Ourense is going to buy a ticket to go to Vigo, the initial recommendation that the website of Renfe is to go to Santiago de Compostela, which is absurd. These are the consequences, on the one hand, of discrimination with Galicia and especially with the interior of our country, but at the bottom of a model that is centralist and that the only function and concern it has is the connection with the Meseta instead of having a decent train service in Galicia that serves to vertebrate the entire territory of Greece. This question gives a lot, but today we want to focus our initiative and our debate, as you know in writing, on a particular issue, which is abuse, absolute economic abuse and the lack of service that the Avant line includes between Ourense, Santiago de Compostela and La Coruña, which is a real scam. This is a serious issue, which affects thousands of people and has a relatively simple solution, which goes through a political response. We're not talking about something that requires new works, new infrastructures or long-term investments, it's just a political decision that Ourense and also Santiago, La Coruña and the rest of Galicia have a train worth a fair price. That is why a year and three months ago, in this House, the Nationalist Block Galego has driven a unanimous agreement, in which we have yielded and supported the majority group, so that since the Galician Parliament the Central Government would be urged to take several measures. First of all, demand an equalization of the rates in our country to avoid these inequalities, which make it necessary, depending on where you live, to allocate more economic resources to that train ticket. Also ask the Central Government for an extension of the hourly frequencies in this line Avant Ourense-Santiago-The Coruña. It also reformulates the terms and conditions of transport subsidies, which are not and were not really useful for the population and, finally, also expands the frequency of the regional line, the old line, which connects Ourense to Santiago and its intermediate populations, according to demand. This is a social demand that we understand should be heard, which is fair and rational. Subsequently, since the BNG we have been following this matter in committee and also through written replies, but today we are bringing this debate back to Parliament for two reasons. One, because we are at the ideal time, at the doors of a new central government in the state, and therefore we have to enforce those agreements and we have to launch a unanimous position from Galicia, and on the other hand, because, by balancing this year, it is not that we have not improved, that we have been the worst, and therefore we understand that you too, like the German Government, must render accounts. When we reached this agreement, Mr. Rajoy was ruling in the Central Government. Then there came Mr. Pedro Sánchez, but the truth is that we were able to check how, once again, different governments, different colors, but the same discrimination with Galicia and Ourense, which shows the inappropriate treatment our country receives by state forces, but also the little political weight of the board of Galicia, that neither with a government friend nor with the next government was able to enforce its position. I'm going to recapitulate and explain why we think we're worse than a year ago. A year ago, we insisted on three fundamental problems. The first was the question of price in relation to these fertilizers; the second was the frequency and the third was the recovery, the active maintenance, of that old trace. In the background — I insist — this triple agravation is the result that Galicia and Ourense stayed behind in the process of modernising the railway, something in which the People's Party has a lot of responsibility. Within that loss of the train in our country, the fact is that Ourense, by his strategic position of exit to the Meseta, to some extent we can say that he "saved himself," because, being a place of passage, he could retain this connection. But the truth is that this does not correspond to a quality service or to a service useful for population, for various reasons. First, discrimination at the price. I want to remember that in 2011, when this service started, a train ticket between Santiago and Ourense was worth 13,50 euros; in 2018 it cost 16,60, we reported here that this was more than 60% above what was worth an average price between, for example, Coruña and Santiago or Santiago and Vigo, which are similar suits, similar speeds and so on, but the truth is that we were worse. Today, in May 2019, the third between Santiago and Vigo rose 40 cents, the third between Santiago and Coruña rose 25 cents and the third between Ourense and Santiago rose a euro with ten. I mean, the top of the hives, not only had a ticket above average, but we have a stratospheric climb, three times as much as in the rest of the country, which is directly a real painting because we're talking about the same train, exactly the same infrastructure. To this we have to add other questions, as we don't have something very relevant in our country, which is that in Galicia there is no proximity service, there is no proximity service. That's discrimination added not only because it doesn't exist, but because for more inri this 2019 Renfe-Adif has frozen the price of nearby trains, that is, not in our region, but in the proximity train that there are elsewhere in the state. Then, above ass, beaten. And linked to the price, we also want to make it clear that those needs for the subsidies are still present, they're still on the table. Think, for example, last week, that there was a holiday in the middle, any student or any worker who develops his working life in Santiago but has his place of residence in Ourense, and vice versa, they couldn't be made with one of these bonuses as a useful mechanism because, if you lose one day a week, you don't get profitable anymore. So this is an absolute absurd. We could also talk about frequencies. In frequency we don't live a single advance or a single evolution. There is not so much progress on the front line nor on the regional line, so we continue to have these time constraints, which we see, above all, in the sense of Ourense to Santiago. That's right, precisely because, as we say from the BNG, as we have reported, this train is designed to serve connections to the outside and not to serve the needs of the country itself. This also leads to various abuses, because many of these trains that we buy the ticket like Avant, are actually an Intercity or an Alvia, i.e. a train that makes a journey towards the Meseta and which is sold as Avant to take advantage of that trip. This causes a lot of trouble. We've brought to this House complaints, for example, that on holiday peaks or weekend peaks this makes many people who count on being able to use that Avant train don't find tickets. But above all, we also see a policy of absolutely shot prices. What I brought here is a screenshot that was made viral on the networks last week, in which, to buy in this case a ticket in the sense of Santiago-Ourense, there was a possibility of transport at 10.06 a.m. that, if you were bought as Avant, it was 14.15 euros price to go back and forth, and if you were bought as Intercity, that is, as a train that you're planning to go to Madrid, you would leave in 13.30. This must be some sort of revolutionary tax that applies to us from Madrid, but it certainly doesn't make much sense that you're going out cheaper if you buy it to connect it to the Meseta that if you buy it to move between Santiago and Ourense when it's exactly the same route, the same minutes and the same expense as Renfe. It's absurd. And above all, we have to point out another question that is very relevant to this which we are debating, which is that while Galicia loses, there is someone who wins. Renfe-Adif continues to deceive the economic memory of this year 2017, the 2018 one is not yet available, as it finds the same upward line as the 2015 one, and that the 2016 one, and that it increases the transport tickets, increases the number of travellers and increases the economic benefits; the passenger/s have increased by 7.6% and the economic profit is in the 6,36 million euros. I mean, this isn't a bad line, this isn't a line...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u201	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u202	...that does not advance, despite the economic resources that it also absorbs from the Spanish State. So, today what we've come to plead for you is, first...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u203	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u204	...an account of what they did to enforce this agreement. And secondly, that now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u205	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u206	...in the face of the challenges of the future that we have, they make use of this Galician position because it's...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. You have another thunder next.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u208	...this discrimination that is always suffering our country, especially Ourense. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u209	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u210	Good morning, gentlemen. Thank you, President. As it is noted that there were general elections and they are again without representation at the Congress of Deputies, who come here asking questions of competition and direct State responsibility. And as it is also noted that we are at the doors of other elections, the municipalities, criticizing the Socialist Party on the right and on the left and on the left, and criticizing the People's Party on the right and on the left. In any case, saying that they are the guarantors of railway services is a strategy that I think doesn't work for them, and that's where they don't have representation at the Congress of Deputies to be able to speak at the Congress of the State's direct powers, and they have to use this House to talk about matters of competence and direct responsibility of the State. I have no problem, I would miss it more!, in addressing matters of the state in this parliament and explaining the management and proactive attitude of the Galician Union on matters of direct competence of the state, such as the railway. But you'll understand that they're putting us on a very good level in terms of infrastructure at the Galician Summit. We're making it exceptional to the Galician Infrastructure Board, that's what you're telling me with your parliamentary question. Of course, yes, sir, don't get nervous. [[Applause]] In this plenary session, the Infrastructure Council, the BNG thirteen initiatives. Of the thirteen, ten on infrastructure. In terms of the infrastructure of the Galician Union, zero, 100 percent of BNG's questions are oral questions and state-related questions, not Galician. You won't tell me we don't do it right for the BNG at the Galician board at the Infrastructure Council. We make it perfect, exceptional! [[Applause]] As for the specific questions you have raised, you have already said that some information has been sent from the General Directorate months ago in Commission 2nd, I will, of course, give you up-to-date information. As soon as we have moved to the Government of Spain, from the Government of Greece, the parliamentary agreement on the needs of railway services, railway transport, in Ourense, Santiago and the Coruña, because we tend to meet the parliamentary agreements, others do not; we have it by custom, of course, in the council, and at the Council of Galicia too, we do not usually pass them over, and we address ourselves, of course, to the Ministry of Development - I personally, here I have the writing - at that time was Secretary General of the State of Julio Gomez Pomar, and I directed him myself to agree on the adoption of this House. While recognizing the progress - of course undeniable - that has been experienced in Galicia in railway matters, there is the Atlantic railway axis since 2015, a real meter on the surface which, of course, has shortened the time of travel in the cities of the Atlantic, and the high speed between Ourense and Santiago also in operation, in this writing we also focus on the central government in the need for it to continue to work to provide better service adapted to the needs we have in Galicia. We also transferred to the Central Government this demand for equalization of tariff policies and arrangements throughout the Greek territory to avoid this situation of discrimination on the basis of the place of residence of the Greeks, because of course it does not seem logical that communications within Galicia are more expensive than on the Atlantic axis. Today, on the railway axis between Ourense and Santiago, the price of the simple ticket is 18 centimeters kilometre, on the Atlantic axis 10 centimeters kilometre, and, of course, it does not seem reasonable to have that difference. So we ask the State Government for this tariff balance, and of course we transfer our interest in railway services between Ourense-Saintiago-Coruña: better services, better frequencies and, of course, also better tariffs. On that line, Mrs. Presas, we are going from the Government of Greece to the Government of the State to improve quality, and that quality is more in line with the needs we have here in Galicia. We demand that these tariff-absorbing mechanisms be studied, and I think our demands for something have served. Of course they haven't arrived, but they've served something, because the existing railway bonds, which I suppose you'll know from them, that Bonus card plus, of between 30 and 50 trips back and forth, in this case the price of the trip between Ourense and La Coruña varies between 12.05 euros and 9.48 euros, according to the bonds, with considerable savings as to what is the simple ticket between Ourense and The Coruña, which with the Avant train is 25.30 euros. The Plus10 Card and the Plus10 Card, the two to ten round-trip trips, have a bonus price of EUR 106.50 on the Ourense to Coruña route, which varies in the period of validity for its use. As I say, these existing bonds just added a new bonus, the Plus Card10.45, for ten trips back and forth. This new allowance means an important saving between A Coruña and Ourense, a 33.5% savings from the simple ticket, and its period of use and validity is 45 days. Thus, a demand is met for users themselves to increase their time to use this service, this bond, and also a demand from the German Government. This period of use and validity of the Plus 10 Card is therefore increased. The truth is, the bond system makes the most attractive prices. There was a need for greater flexibility in the periods of use of these bonds, and we have made progress, but we will continue to insist, of course, that yes, before the Spanish Government for the improvement of the tariff policies of railway services in our community and for the need to continue to make progress on the greater flexibility of tariffs and that these bonds can also be used on different trains. Finally, give a better answer and meet those demands of users. And don't think we're just sending letters, Mrs. Presas, don't think so. We have no less than just referred to writing, but we have claimed from the Government of the State the improvement of railway services in our community, because rail improvements to Galicia have been a repeated demand from the Government of Greece. We therefore do not limit ourselves merely to handing down writings. Over the past year, in this parliament, a decade of railway service initiatives have been discussed and approved in our community, and of course, Mrs Presas, who since June have transferred all these demands to the bodies that corresponded, directly to the Ministry of Development and to the various bodies of Adef and Renfe, and in each of those writings from the Government of Greece we have always claimed to the Government of the State that takes account of our legitimate demands and, of course, we have transferred our willingness to cooperate in improving those services in railway matters. We work for Febe. You will remember that working group that was created, which was also thanks to our work, to improve the railway services of the neighbors of the Navy. Maybe they'd rather not have a working group. I'd rather there were at least one working group, and incidences were solved. What do you need to solve more? Of course. But I suppose you'll prefer a working group that doesn't. Demands in advance on the Coruña-Ferrol railway line. We did a study, even though it wasn't our skills, and we moved it to Madrid. We also worked with the Ministry of Development to push the Lugo-Ourense railway line; it was we who demanded it. We've also been insisting on the Vigo-Porto connection, and we've been keeping watch over the central government for it to be met, of course, yes, although you don't like it, for the AVE to Galicia to arrive, and for Ourense. We have not limited ourselves, therefore, to claim improvements in infrastructure, we also demand improvements in services. Service improvements are with the type of train; not only infrastructure needs to be improved, Mrs. Presas, but also the type of train. I suppose he'll know, but I'll kill him, anyway. We've moved all these demands into the different meetings, so I think you can't speak of a lack of interest, a lack of cowardice, a lack of passivity, and a passivity of the Galician Union on railway issues, I think it's meridianly clear that anyone who defends the interests of the Greeks in railway matters is the Galician Union, and not the Galician Nationalist Block. [[Applause]] We've been asking for improvements for more than three weeks, of course! It is also necessary to have knowledge, reports and insistence before the Government of the State for the Ministry of Development to make a plan of modernization, a real plan of modernization, with concrete actions between Ferrol-Coruña, Ourense-Lugo and Vigo-Porto. Improvements in connections, more frequency and times, and attitude, therefore, demanding, proactive and working, of course, not only limiting us to presenting writings or talking from this forum. I think they either don't know that the powers are the state or they don't want to know. I don't know, any of those things will be. Our duty, of course, is to manage the direct competitions, which we are doing excellently well, and we will, of course, continue to demand the ministry, to talk and dialogue with the ministry to improve the railway services, but we must not be doing so bad at the Galician board, the Infrastructure Council, because you're the only one asking for the state. We mustn't be doing so bad at the Infrastructure Council. For my part, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u211	Thank you very much. For the replica round, Mrs. Presas Berganginos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u212	As it is noted, indeed, that the BNG did not have in the previous legislation and that it does not have this representation in Madrid, that we have to demand from here what all these Members who are left to you — at least as well as say — do not do for this country, Mrs Vázquez. I know you miss him too. I imagine you can't even confess what you voted for here. [[Applause]] Finally, you must be still short-circuited by the election results, because you're here to bluff us because we bring the surrender of an agreement that the People's Party then also supported. It should have been because since it's a socially sensitive subject, they were afraid, and then they said, "We're going to support it, and as soon as it's running to see it." But we bring it for two reasons. First, because it's fundamental. And secondly, Mrs Vázquez, if this is not solely of Galician competence right now, it is the responsibility of the People's Party. First, Article 27 of the Autonomy Statute. Second. The German Parliament, Mrs Vázquez, you should know - as much as you know as the Infrastructure Advisor - that has approved the demand for competences, and has also approved the creation of a German railway entity. That was approved by Mrs Vázquez nearly a decade ago. And if they didn't, it was because they didn't really want it or because they didn't give them permission in Madrid. [[Applause]] Because, man, it hasn't been a year since you changed the Spanish State presidency, not a year ago! You were the ones who were before, and what did they do then from Madrid? Nothing positive for Galicia's inner vertebration. I have to remind you... I didn't mean to do it, but I have to remind you that you, in particular, have been with the President of the Galician Council the inventor of this follow-up commission that has been demonstrated in this House that there was no such thing. You had such embarrassing state budgets by Rajoy that you invented that there was an irreverent follow-up commission. We asked you, we asked Mr Rueda, we asked Mr Martínez, we asked follow-up questions, we asked for documentation, and there was no commission. So, please, a little noise because, in fact, there's no member of the BNG paying a salary from Madrid, but you have a lot of people and you should rub a little, because with that amount of money they could spoil our train in Ourense. What did they do with Rajoy? Well, nothing. What did you do when Mr. Pedro Sánchez was? We saw some light there. Let's say, now that they're not ruling in Madrid, because suddenly, as they're becoming almost independent, at least they're going to squeeze the Socialist Party to correct this aggravation. But the truth is not, because he comes here selling milongs of the bonds that I've already explained to him that I'm not a qualitative advance, because the key issue of bonds is the period in which you can use it, from the first title you validate, and that makes really a person who has to come four times and not five to this city to work, for example, it's not profitable for him, as he spent last week, that there was a holiday in the middle. Therefore, not one complex argument and responsibility of conscience for not having done his work in time and form, and what we have is that they didn't even enforce their political weight when Mr. Rajoy was in government, nor do they now when Mr. Sánchez is. And while who loses? Galicia. And what do they do? To agree that this tariff policy of the People's Party, which makes us in Ourense pay more than 65% for a single ticket that is equivalent to what might be in another section of our country, and, in any case, what it reflects are also the deficiencies that we have of internal vertebration in this country. So, don't come here to give excuses for bad payers, because, of course, we will continue to put the question of the train on the table as a priority, and today, in addition, particularly, we were focusing on the issue in this line -- as I explained -- and you came here to talk about the Navy, talking about other points -- to us it seems great, we will also keep these issues on the political agenda because they seem to be priorities, but this shows that in particular, on this issue, they haven't made a proper defense to what the demand is, that this price has a balance with the rest of the territory and that they don't continue to increase. Nor did he say anything of that great political achievement that in Ourense it would rise about 1.10 when others worked an average of 35 cents. Nor did he say anything else about what they could do, and I invite them to do a study since the Galician Union, which is that old line between Ourense and Santiago, which connected populations like The Carballin and the Irish, which today have very few frequencies and the others no longer have, as is the case with the Flag. They do a study on this, on demand, on whether there is any possibility of demanding specific time changes. Do something else to come here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u213	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u214	...with their prefabricated speech, which bothers them that we come to realize that the political weight of the Greek Government, zero; as a political weight to make government friends or different governments bring questions to Galicia, zero; and as goals to exploit our self-government, they vote on a day when the competitions come to Galicia and the next day they forget, therefore...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u215	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Time's up. Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u216	Madam Presas, I'd say you're recurrent and even predictable. Of course, between taking over the powers, what you don't have to manage, also the deficit, too the deficit, and then if you lose Galicia, you lose the Greeks and you win the state. Therefore, I believe that the Greeks well deserve something more carefully. In fact, I am surprised that you are moving us and telling me that we do not meet the requirements of this Parliament and the demands of the Galician Union, because you are the first ones who do not meet the requirements of the Greek Parliament, this Parliament, this House. They are the first, and we have a recent example, Your Honor: the urban transport of Pontevedra. Oh, he doesn't mind breaking the law. [[Murmurs.]] He doesn't care what he's doing. When they violate parliamentary agreements, it's all right; when we fail our own, we have to discuss it. Of course, did you meet the Council of Pontevedra, the BNG, deploying urban transport in Pontevedra? [[Murmurs.]] No, you didn't. The Pontevedra Town Hall renounces urban transport, public transport, in Pontevedra Town Hall? Yeah, I quit. The Council of Pontevedra is in breach of the law? Yes, and it's not in their priorities. And even worse, much worse, by talking about discrimination, children, girls and girls in the Pontevedra area, who prevents metropolitan transport from being imposed in Pontevedra? BNG. [[Murmurs.]] Why can't young people, girls, children and children in the Pontevedra area use this New People's Card? Is that discrimination with regard to the areas in which it works, yes or no? [[Applause]] So I think they condemn the Pontevedra boys not to use this New People's Card for their refusal to transport metropolitan, public transport, which is a public transport like the railway, public transport. So you are not an example of complying with Parliament's agreements, you are not an example of meeting the requirements of the Galician Union, you are not an example of complying with the laws, nor are you an example of transporting that BNG negative to metropolitan transport in Pontevedra, and that young people, girls, children and children cannot use the New People's Card. So can anyone take them seriously? Can anyone take you seriously in public transport? We're talking about public transport. You were talking about the price increase. The prices of the Ourense-Santiago line are considerably more expensive than those of the Atlantic axis. The Government of the Socialist Party has not improved in that respect, and that increase, of course, is not a good news, of course not. We will continue with the utmost attention of the railway services, careful and vigilant, and we will continue to demand the Ministry of Development — who has the competences, to clarify it — to improve services, to improve frequencies and, of course, to improve tariffs and bonds, which I believe has not heard my intervention on the flexibility of bonds. At Junta we continue to work to strengthen our demands, demands before the Government of Spain, but it's not only about asking. Of course we work in our field, in our competences, with more modern public transport, more tailored to the needs of the Greeks, and of course with the public transport plan, but also by transferring alternatives and proposals. Here's a letter sent by the Director General for Mobility to Renfe. In this framework of improved public transport, we want to facilitate intermodality between rail and bus services. We have already transferred to Renfe from Galicia the need to foster this interoperability of the means of payment, and we have therefore proposed to Renfe that if we could use the TMG card, the metropolitan card, the Renfe services to give more facilities and more communities to the Greeks and to the Greeks in public transport, not only by bus, but also by train. We'd like you to be able to pay with that TMG card, the subway card. It would open up the possibility of transhipments bonuses, and would, of course, open a possibility, and above all a very important utility with the intermodal stations that are put into service. This, as you will know, is already being done with FEVE. And we want to extend it, not only that it's in FEVE in the Ferrol area, but that it's extending it to the rest of Galicia. A good measure to be more attractive to public transport is a matter that, of course, we will put on the table at the first meeting we have with the next heads of the Ministry of Development of the New Government. So we'll continue to work to improve railway services, to make them more competitive in our territory, and they'll be on the table all these performances, service improvements, tariff improvements, high speed, AP-9 transfer, Atlantic corridor, promote quality public transport. Your Honor, support the metropolitan transport in Pontevedra by our young people, by our girls, children and children, from the Pontevedra area, the New People's Card. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u217	Thank you very much, Counselor. Da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and two other G.P. Members. of the Galician Socialists, on the policy of the Galician Union in relation to the public service of Justice
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u218	To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u219	Good morning. Good day again, Counselor. Mr. President, we're still cold. I don't know if everyone agrees, but we're still cold in here. [[Laughter]] On 17 April, we discussed in Commission 1 a non-legislative proposal on the degree of compliance with the Judicial Infrastructure Plan, and you, through Mr Rodríguez, acknowledged that, indeed, the plan is not met, it is not fulfilled. In fact, he registered a amendment by the Parliamentary Group asking the Galician Council to comply with the said plan before the end of the current legislation, and that by the Vice-Presidentship, by its advisor, they should report annually on works and investments, in order to provide information and control the execution of the Judicial Investment Plan. That means that, in fact, the 2010-2015 Judicial Infrastructure Plan in Galicia has not been complied with, because otherwise this amendment would not be presented with these two points. We weren't able to reach an agreement, we didn't understand very well why, because the arrangement was good on both sides, but the Government in this case decided that there was no possibility of agreeing. So today we ask you what your opinion on compliance with the 2010-2015 Judicial Infrastructure Plan is. We're in 2019. Despite this amendment, which, if you actually recognize that the plan was not met, you were advertising, the PPdEG this week. This was midweek, but on Monday of that same week, it was April, they talked about that after the inauguration of the new judicial buildings of Santiago, Ourense and La Coruña, the Pontevedra turn arrives, while the works in Vigo continue. Vigo Aces, what's left of Vigo! In Pontevedra, of course, the judicial building had already been promised by its director general for the summer of 2017, and you yourself promised it by the summer of 2018. So, it's still coming in the summer of 2019 and we don't know if that building is going to be finished or not. That plan, as I said, was going from 2010 to 2015, with an investment of about 97 million euros, something else, with two sentences. A first phase 2010-2013, with most investments, because the budget was more than 75 million euros before 2013, and a second phase until 2015, with the rest of the amounts. As I said before, almost 98 million euros, something more than 97. The works were to create new judicial buildings, as well as rehabilitation or expansion of those that already existed. In fact, he was elected to report on 27 August 2009, he's going to be ten years old, and he was said to be a draft. He was introduced there, and it was said that he was going to send the unions, the agents of the sector, to be approved definitively. It was in a draft, we don't know if you approved it permanently, but we haven't found the publication of the Legal Infrastructure Plan officially in the CEO. If you tell us where it is published, for us much better. If it's true that we've been asked to the Directorate-General for Justice by our parliamentary group through Article 9, and we've been given a copy, a copy of a leaflet, which we could work on to make these initiatives. It's true that your advice -- let me tell you, Mr. Rueda -- seems to work a little bit like that on slippers, like when we walk around the house, because the fact is that there aren't even records of the meetings you keep with the Justice working groups to talk about the issues of Justice. You have an advisory group, but you don't raise official records, and so you've been told in an official reply to one of our questions. But of course, we believe that announcing a plan, not publishing it and not fulfilling it, for us it's not serious in a democracy, and much more when you have for ten years been an absolute majority in the autonomous community and you could have pulled that plan out perfectly. That strict management of what the President of the Union always claims, in this case we think it is quite scarce. The president himself, in addition to the 2010 Autonomy State Debate, made reference to the plan, promised up to 100 million euros — something more than 97, as I said earlier — for 64 proceedings. And he said he was today -- literally -- in full deployment. In 2010, full deployment was difficult because it was the beginning year. And, in fact, we're in 2019 and full deployment doesn't exist yet because it's not all done. And, in fact, the Director General of Justice himself in 2017, in Commission 1st, recognized that the buildings of Sarria, Walls, Road, Cambados and Vilagarcia — in 2017 — are not made. Nor today are there those of Sarria, Walls, Road, Cambados and Vilagarcia. Of course, what happens is they were promised for the year 2015, and they weren't in 2017 and they're not today. Then we had a problem finding the budgets, because until 2011 you used an extra-budgetary formula for execution through the Public Investment Society in Galicia. Investments were not reflected in the budgets of the Union. And it was hard, it's hard, to make a precise follow-up. And so in the Society's annual accounts yields there is no detail — little — about the investments actually made by the Society. The truth is, as an example, of the €75 million that was allocated between 2014 and 2018 for investments, 28 million was not executed, plus at least 38%. And today -- it's been four years since it was the deadline to finish the plan -- we calculated that we're in a default of about 30%. We know you're going to tell us that it coincided with times of deep crisis. But you already knew it when they arrived at the Government in 2009; and therefore, if the plan is a forecast for the years to come, we assume that in those years you had a reference to what they wanted to do in those years after 2010. And they knew the crisis existed, because we all knew it, and we all know it was Mr. Zapatero's fault and the government of Emilio Pérez Touriño. The truth is you didn't do it. In 2015 only 35% of the investment was executed. We don't know what the works are to be done, we don't know what rehabilitations are to be done, because there's no data. And, of course, you announced in November last year that there would be a new plan to renew the equipment and furniture of the Administration of Justice for 2019-2021; that it will complement — so it was announced — the judicial infrastructure plan. But it's difficult to complement something that is not yet fully completed, and not knowing, in addition, that it will affect. We believe that this way of doing politics is not serious. Besides, I'm personally quite sad. Your group yesterday approved that law that you called "operation to dispose of the Community surplus", which is to move 48 million from one side of the budget to health, education and social infrastructure. [[Applause]] And nothing, zero!, to finish some legal infrastructure that had to be finished in 2015. I don't know if your department has less weight than the Health, Education or Social Policy Council, or if you don't care too much about the public service of justice, because they don't have an end to almost 30% of a plan that had to be finished by 2015. For me, that's all. I hope you answer something and indeed tell us, above all, if this plan will end in the present legislation, before it ends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u220	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. Mr. Rueda Valenzuela has the floor of the Vice-President and Counsellor, Public Administration and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u221	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Mrs. Vilán, the first thing I have to do is thank you for your inquiry, frankly, because you are asking for the Judicial Infrastructure Plan, and I'm going to talk here about a lot of judicial infrastructures that you made the Galician Union. We're in an election period and I don't know if it's your own or if you're gonna end up denouncing me for talking about things that you did in Galicia and what you're going to do. But the question gives me the perfect opportunity to tell you about the judicial infrastructure plan and the many things that the Galician Union has done—a well-known plan, on the other hand. You told me you had to make a request for information under Article 9, in your capacity as a Member, for us to give it to you. Well, look, of course, if you ask for it, we give it to you. But at www.junta.gal@planseactations today also had it. So don't tell me it wasn't a known plan and it wasn't a plan that was at the disposal of the entire citizenry. You, I say, are in your legitimate right to ask for it through your parliamentary status; but you are for consultation with any citizen, and their evolution as well. So, there he is. It's not published in the Official Journal of Galicia, it's not mandatory to publish it, it's not necessary. What is needed is to give him publicity and transparency; what we give him when we meet with all the judicial operators at the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. So it's a plan you know. I have my doubts — I am sorry to tell you, with all due respect — that you know him in your integrity or, at least, that you have read everything. Because, if I read everything, I would read that in the preamble to that plan, it was the report that went to Galicia, which approved this report to begin the plan -- "part of the recognition of existing limitations in carrying out a rigorous approach to what might be the needs of the judicial bodies in the coming years." That is, flexibility to adapt to the needs that were asked by those directly concerned, that were the legal operators and the evolution of Justice, Administration, of the planning they made, that they could be done and that they were actually done in an administration that, as you know, is shared. So that's why some of the forecasts were not executed and some were executed. By entering some important figure, the plan, in fact, had originally 64 projects in its contents. Do you know how many were executed at the end of that plan? 66 were executed. I mean, more than they were expected. Of course, if you come to tell me here that we didn't run the Judicial Infrastructure Plan, I tell you yes, and besides, with two more infrastructures that were planned. Yes, with that flexibility and the need to accompany the judicial burdens, planning and competencies of other administrations. And we actually exceeded the amount that was planned on budget, we went to 115 million, when you know that the amount we started talking about when the plan was presented was a smaller amount. So this is like a little introduction, in case you had any doubts, which I think you shouldn't have, of course, at the sight of the data; and also at the sight of other things. On the answer to the question that you make as the final part of your interpellation — is the role of Justice for the Galician Union an essential function? — yes, without any doubt. How do we prove it? With a lot of things. First, with the Legal Infrastructure Plan, with more actions executed than initially planned and also more money than initially planned. You told me about the weight I could have. This isn't about it. You don't know how the government understands. He's never been part of a Galician government, but if he had trained, he'd realize that this is about objective priorities, it's not about the weight he can have each one. But if you want us to go there, you might as well tell you that I must have a lot more than the advisor in the Bipartite who was in charge of these powers. Because in a budget that had 2,000 million euros more than we then had, it turns out that the amount in which the budgets of the Galician Union were increased in Justice was a very large amount, from 114 in 2009 to 158 in 2019, which is much more than the progress of the budgets. You judge the importance of this Government, this Union of Galicia, to Justice. Of course, if I had to judge it by the amount that in 2009 we were left as a budget in Justice, I would say that the Bipartite had quite little interest in developing the competences in Justice by the Galician Board, simply counting these numbers: from 114 to 158. And indeed, as you said, some investments have been through the SPI. Criticize him, thing, I'm sorry to tell you, I'm very surprised. It is critical that we have done the initial part, because it has always been executed with own funds from the budgets of the Galician Union, of the Judicial Infrastructure Plan through SPI. Look, it was the needs of that time, when, as you said here, the economic crisis began and the budgets began to decline. But it turns out that in the years of expansive budgets all the actions in judicial infrastructures — which were much less those that made the Bipartite — were through the SPI, they were all through the SPI. And you criticize me for this. When SPI was an instrument to act in times of budgetary distress it was when we did; and when you had the opportunity to do it differently, they did everything there. Hey, we, a little part; and you, everything. So don't criticize me for something you did. And if you criticize me, I'm sorry to tell you that I have the right to ask why the two-party government through the SPI in judicial infrastructure is something good — in 100 percent of the performances — and that this government of Galicia in just 20 percent in years of economic hardship is something you can't admit because it's lack of transparency and you don't want to do things. This is about planning and, I say, about your question of whether or not we are interested in Justice. You'll be interested, Mrs. Vilán, with this data I just told you! To take a brief look — in the time I have and then in the replica — also ask me how are the most important performances. Well, you know what it's already built, everything we've done in the most complicated times: the new judicial building in Santiago, which is already running; the Tabacos Factory, which is already running; the Ourense judicial building, which is already running; the remodeling, of great importance, that we did in Ferrol, in the Ferrol courts, which are already running; and a multitude of small performances. Some, besides -- I recognize it that way -- ending what you left us without ending and also without paying. It's true they probably didn't expect to leave the Government in 2009, but you also had to pay for those things that you started. And those aren't even computed in this legal infrastructure plan. In Pontevedra, an investment of more than 21 million euros, indeed, will end in the next few months, on very near dates, and will leave a problem solved that you left us, which is the need for space for the judicial infrastructures of Pontevedra for the following years, which did not have it. The court building in Pontevedra wasn't even planned -- they didn't talk, because Vigo still spoke, and they did many papers, they didn't do anything else, of course. But in Pontevedra they had not planned it, there was no place. It had to be done and it was going to end now. And for you -- I'm sorry to tell you -- this was not a necessity; just like the building of Tui, which had no forecast at all. In the City of Vigo Justice, investment is more than 40 million euros at last. I found a paper, a project to build a building on a land that was not sold out and that for many years the Vigo Town Hall refused to give in to us, contrary to what they did in all political colors, because they said it wasn't a competition from the Town Councils to help Justice operate in Galicia. And then we lost many years, of course, until we made the right decision to do it where we are currently doing it. But how many years have passed in discussions!, as in so many things, with the Vigo Council, which said they wouldn't do things that the rest of the councils did. This is about the infrastructures that are in progress, which are the most visible and most budgeted. But at the same time, we did a lot of energy efficiency-related performances, with 3.2 million euros in renovations of buildings that already existed to equip them with more energy efficiency, and many smaller works, Mrs Vilán. Finally, of the 55 judicial buildings that Galicia has, within this judicial infrastructure plan, took action in 53. Of course, you're going to tell me that there are two of us who haven't done anything, and that we have failed the Judicial Infrastructure Plan. No, no, it's not necessary. Fortunately there were two buildings that were in a state where these performances were not necessary. I could then detail a lot of specific actions related to the protection of victims of gender-based violence, actions that have a cost and which I do not impose on the judicial infrastructure plan, but which also assume an important burden within that social importance that we give justice. We could talk long and tense too, but that would certainly give us another interpellation; and probably for an appearance to talk about the implementation of new technologies in the Administration of Justice. There was absolutely nothing in 2009, Mrs Vilán, and it's more than 30 million euros that we've been investing beyond the judicial infrastructure plan that we could also put in there, and that we could add up too. This assumes that today all Galician judicial parties have a video conferencing system and that, by the end of 2019, there will be 30 absolutely digital rooms installed in Galicia, a ratio that is not given anywhere else in the state. We could also talk about all the instruments, I say, with new technologies, the unified judicial repository, the electronic viewer, the digital signature. I think all of this you, in your legal status, know him, like the digital signature e-Fidelius, all these things for which, I say, I don't have time, but which could also be considered as a plan of judicial infrastructure. And finally, if you want, we can talk about free legal assistance, the social function of justice. When I began to exercise these powers, as far as the shift of office was concerned, what was a strike, and the lawyers lifted up on the feet of war. Today, fortunately, there is peace, and I acknowledge by the Galician Council of the fundamental work these professionals do. Then the situation changed a lot. In infrastructures, too; but with regard to free legal assistance, which is where we see the most performance of the Galician Union...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u222	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u223	...I think the difference is like day to night. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u224	Thank you very much. On the replica round, you have the floor to Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u225	We won't improve in compliance with the judicial infrastructure plan, but yes in the air conditioning, which is now not as cold as it used to be. Thank you, President. I wasn't telling you that we couldn't find the Judicial Infrastructure Plan, but it wasn't officially published in the Official Journal of Galicia, and that it wasn't negotiated with anyone, Mr. Vice-President. That's what they negotiated with the unions, that opened it up to the sectors, and I don't know that because you guys have a lot of flexibility, it's not true. And, of course, in some places they don't even know what was expected to be done in the small works, and you know it well, Mr. Vice President. The buildings of Sarria, the Walls, the Road, the Cambados and the Vilagarcia are still not built. So if there were 64 court proceedings in the plan and you now say that they did 66... I'm a letter, but if they're left to do one, two, three, four, five, and there was 64 and they did 66, where are these five? Did they take place in other different municipalities of Sarria, Walls, Road, Cambados and Vilagarcia? The Vilagarcia people, the Vilagarcia judges, have they gone somewhere else? Because you know well that in Vilagarcia, in the building, there are no dungeons because they're occupied by the judicial archives. There's no room to have dungeons and they have to be, those who are arrested, at the police station. And, fortunately, it doesn't happen like in Tui, who have to be on the street tied to a bank, handcuffed to a bank, when they're going to declare to Judge Number 3. Luckily they have the police station and they can be in the dungeons of the Vilagarcia police station. But there's no room, there's no new building on Cambados or on the Road or on the Walls or in Sarria. From the rehabilitation you've done on the Road, for example, it's still raining at the entrance of the trial, one of the judges. Enter the water, Mr. Vice President. That's probably a "no more" in energy efficiency in the courts, in the energy efficiency that you want to set in motion. In the Provincial Audience of Pontevedra one of the issues that was going to be changed was the access and control system in the building of the Audience, which remains exactly the same as in 2009, the same machine, the same gentlemen, the same room where to enter the Provincial Audience. That's not done, too. It's better not to talk about Tui, because of Tui we did a monograph in Commission 1a. But when this legislation began in 2012, Judge No. 3 -- I'm not talking about either 1 or 2, but the 3 -- I was and is on a walk where the market is. And myself, with Tui's comrades, I went to see where I was and I had to put away the clothes that were there for the people who were engaged in selling in the market so I could get into the trial, Mr. Vice President. And it's still exactly the same, because the new building isn't done, it's about to be done, the rehabilitation works of the health centre are done but it's not finished. I was promised in 2010 and we're in 2019. Don't say that there was a deep crisis, because the crisis, according to you, had already begun long before, had already begun with José Luís Rodríguez Zapatero and Emilio Pérez Touriño. You knew it. And if they knew it when they came in 2010, what did you forecast for the year 2015? No one, that's the problem. You were doing something about the march that you now want to tell us here that it's completely finished, so that's why in the budgets of the year 2012 was promised the judicial building of Ourense, the new ones of Pontevedra, the one of Vigo, The Coruña and Vilagarcia, and also the rehabilitation of the old tobacco factory in Coruña. In 2013, the rehabilitation of the tobacco factory, Pontevedra's new judicial building. In 2014, Ourense's again, and Vigo's again. In 2015, Ourense's again. And we go year by year, year by year. Of course, it was so easy, Mr. Vice-President, just as you came here and told us: Indeed, it was an excessively ambitious plan for how it was — because you are worth it, still above, to criticize the two-party government — and we couldn't do it. It was a toast to the sun. It was easy for me to say that. Because the people of Justice know about the buildings where they work — and the users — and they're seeing that what you're counting here doesn't exist. In Viveiro, in February 2012, it was agreed to initiate proceedings to give a municipal seat to Junta so that it would make a decent space as a waiting room for women victims of gender-based violence — in 2012. In 2015 they agreed from the Town Hall, in full, the free assignment of the place. And they're waiting for you to say yes. Mr. Vice President, be serious, be serious, don't tell us milongs, because no one believes them anymore.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u226	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u227	I'm done. What we ask of you — and that we will ask you in the motion as a result of this request — is that you terminate this plan before this legislation is over, and that this is what you come here today because we have asked you from the Socialist Parliamentary Group...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u228	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u229	...do it every year to tell us how this plan works; and let that transparency of what it does come true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u230	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. Mr. Rueda Valenzuela has the floor of the Vice-President and Counsellor, Public Administration and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u231	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Vilan, then, if I understood correctly, the plan is fulfilled. What's going on is there's some action that's changed. I told you in my first intervention to read the whole plan. You'll see how we talk about enough flexibility. Ask a little more, not only to the Galician Union — I know what I say will deny it, even if I know I am right — ask whether the march hasn't been talking to whom these things are to be spoken to, which are all directly affected — especially all the organs of government of Justice in Galicia — about what was necessary to prioritize and what was most important to do. And, therefore, within a provision — which I already say to you that it was a lot more, apart from the technological infrastructures, than it was originally planned, almost 20 million euros more — were doing the things we understand by common agreement. Because we make all these things in common, and I think that's why, in some way, we're going to be right. We speak to those who understand best, who are directly affected, the legal operators. And they were making decisions. Some decisions were to act on buildings that were not planned, thinking that they were more priority than other actions. You insist a lot on Cambados and Vilagaría. I know that in 2009 they were one of the forecasts. You know what wasn't planned? The air conditioning. We had to do it that year, 1,100,000 euros. The officials died in heat and there was no single forecast. I suppose in the years 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008, it would also be hot; and in 2009, which was when they made the budget, it would also be hot in that trial. You didn't have a euro in the budget project, in an expansive budget, to solve that problem. We had to do it at the worst moment, investing, I say, 1,100,000 euros in quickly airing these buildings. And then, with all the planning that's been made for all the projects -- because there's still going on -- how the judicial organization can end up, I think we've made an intelligent decision. First, building buildings in the cities. They're made everywhere it was necessary. They'll agree on that. If you don't agree, then it goes side by side separate from where all the legal operators go, who said, "They do first in the cities and then hang on to the other one, without failing to take care of everything else, that this is a priority. So now, if you do a review of the Legal Infrastructure Plan, you'll see that, except in Lugo, where we've just done a major reform at the Audience, the rest of the cities have been working on the judicial buildings to solve the problems that were there. For example, as I say, in Pontevedra, that they had not planned for anything. Do you think the judicial structures in Pontevedra were sufficient, that there was nothing to do? The Bipartite, of course, raised him. There was not a single euro planned to make any legal infrastructure in the Pontevedra Judiciary Party. So, we will agree that the Judicial Infrastructure Plan did it for purposes and that we were able to see candles, I insist, talking to legal operators; and you, as far as it was, did not. And that's why we built the building in Pontevedra, in collaboration with the Town Hall of Pontevedra. Listen, if it's too late, talk to the Socialist Party concierge in Pontevedra. You can explain that the transferred plot had a number of technical problems. We assumed it perfectly, and that's what delayed the execution. You're from Pontevedra, you know it perfectly; therefore, do you come to tell me here that the building is not finished? I can tell you about all the problems that had to be solved technically, with an increase in the budget, and that they prevented the work from being within the time limit that was initially said. Tell me about Tui. First I thought he was going to tell me that a building wasn't being built in Tui. Of course you're doing it! But those problems that there were already could have been expected. Because Tui's trial was the first to be established in 2009, that forecast had already come from its time. And, of course, zero euros to bring together, as we are now doing, the building of Tui. Do you know why we stayed there too? Because, contrary to Social Security when he ruled the PP in Madrid, who gave up the Tower of Justice building in Vigo to Galicia to meet the social end of Justice, it turns out that, when he changed the government in June last year, we were told that we were not given the old Tui health center and that, therefore, we had to buy it. And it cost the public archives a million euros from the social security treasury of the socialist government. And that's what delayed him too, when everything was ready to be able to build this building. That's the difference. It turns out that the Government, with Mariano Rajoy, understood that the social function of Justice should be placed above the recalibration of the State. So this tower was handed in, and in Tui it was necessary to pay a million euros for that building, for that health center that the Social Security treasury didn't want it for anything. But we had to pick up. That was also a cause that explains that delay. He spoke of Viveiro as well — full rehabilitation. Look, that's one of the performances, and tell me where it is. In Viveiro, there was an integral rehabilitation that was not provided for in the Judicial Infrastructure Plan, but it was done and it was worth a lot of money. For you, Viveiro's judicial building was perfectly fine. We could talk and, I say, a little while ago in the interpellation to talk about everything that was done at the most difficult time in the judicial infrastructure plan. It was a need that they couldn't see you at all. They didn't see the punctual performances when there was money — indeed, Mrs Vilan — to do a lot of things and when nothing was done in Justice. This Government, this Union of Galicia, in ten years — in the most difficult years to do these things — has increased nearly 25% of the budgets of Justice...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u232	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u233	...he pushed over 100 million to make legal infrastructure because they needed it. The bad thing is they also needed in the Bipartite and you don't see it, or, if they see it, they didn't want it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u234	Thank you very much, Counselor. We suspended the session until 4.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u235	Good afternoon. Let's resume the session with the last of the interpelerations. Da Maria de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and Da Luca Chao Pérez, from G.P. of En Marea, on the policy of the Government of Greece in relation to the protection and conservation of architectural and archaeological cultural heritage
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u236	To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs. Cuña Bóveda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u237	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Last April 8th, as we all know well, the Law on the Rehabilitation, Regeneration and Urban Renewal of Galicia was passed, with the sole support of the People's Party. And we believe that this will have the most serious and serene consequences, the most serious for our heritage. I was expecting the presence here of the Culture Councillor, but, well, I guess what reasons he will have. And I hope you give me an answer. Why do we say this is too dangerous? He's on alert because I believe that everyone who knows him well, not only experts, but a very broad fringe of society. Because what's going to happen? For the intervention framework of historical sets will be empty of content. The framework for intervention of historical sets is vital to keeping what we have. This law contradicted several other laws. On the one hand, the Law 5/2016, of heritage, which clearly specifies that a special protection plan is essential. And it's said in the specific text that any action on heritage in the autonomic field goes through this, through a plan. Secondly, I also contradicted the Land Law, which you will know very well; specifically, Law 2/2016, of February 10. And then it's also clearly said that the figure you order and plan is a special plan. There are already two contradictions about autonomous laws. But I also contradicted the Constitution itself. The Constitution, in article 46, is not strictly a right, but it is a recommendation that binds legislators and legislators. So it's very important what is found in the Constitution: that the Administration has to look after the heritage. When a law is drafted saying that a special plan doesn't serve anything, we can't expect it to solve, regenerate and, as you said in your intervention, be beneficial to Galicia. I'm sorry, but we can't admit it. Well, on the other hand, it's very hard to believe that it's done and that it's going on. This law comes into force on 22nd tomorrow. And we can't understand it, I should leave you. In the period of amendments there was someone who asked them, please, to have reports. Of whom? Reports of the Galician Culture Council, which had been taken into account by the Culture Council, which has so far disappeared, also reported to the General Sub-Direction for the Protection of Heritage. It's rational, it's total and absolutely coherent. Why are these reports requested? Well, basically for three things: firstly, to know whether the plot theme was consistent with this; secondly, to see whether it was colliding with other laws, and colliding not only with the two nominees and the Constitution, but with the international recommendations. There are, at least, many letters: the letter from Athens, Venice... the last one is the letter from Krakow, which I have here. And they are very clear what are the recommendations that are behind this government, as they are virtually all over Europe. Well, what they did, really, is a perfect legislative cocktail to allow free bar and continue to take advantage of real possibilities for rehabilitation and housing regeneration. Another model could and should be made possible, a law to connect with rural rehabilitation actions, economic policies and environmental partners that guarantee a living and future rural life. But they drafted a project to enable and rehabilitate bad real estate policies. It's the irresponsible speculation to seek immediate benefits at the expense of distribution... with the laws of the People's Party we're in a territory and we're considering the heritage and giving it a price. And we're not talking business. No, we're talking about something much more important, because we inherit a heritage and we have to legalize future generations. The fundamental thing is that, with this law, heritage is absolutely unprotected. This is another example of your dismantling program. We know, and you know better than we, that only the BIC-declared real estate will have full protection, will continue to have prior permission of Heritage, and the rest will not. Do you know how many BIC heritage elements there are in the city of Santiago? Come on, ten. You know what's in danger? That's not what I'm saying, it's an expert. It is put in danger nothing but Santiago de Compostela as the heritage of humanity, no more or less. This is very serious. We're ahead, and we all know, of one of the most emblematic cities in the world. It's amazing. It was declared heritage in 1985. All right. If you can intervene in 90% of the rest of Compostela's heritage, you can absolutely lose your identity. If you keep the articles analyzed in the law, there is no doubt that this historical set of the city of Santiago can lose its category, as part of its heritage, which served as a justification for that qualification — that is, the plot, the interiority of each building, its pathways, etc. — can be modified and changed to the free will of the turnable governments. We're talking about values, we're talking not only about economic values — they are also — we're talking about historical values, we're talking about artistic, symbolic, identity and functional values. As a base, this data is only 10%. If it doesn't reach more than one tenth of the total existing buildings in this city -- we could talk about others, we could talk about Ourense, Vigo, we could talk about many spaces -- all the others, those who are not BIC, what are they likely to be, Counselor? To be grouped, demolished, and to keep only the facades, to convert them into commercial spaces into the hands of multinationals, or pure and harsh speculation. Owners if they can reform housing in historic helmets without prior autonomic permission. You yourself encrypt in more than 3,000 a year the actions that with this change would be free to control by Heritage. Well, I'm going to come by, because I'm very interested in you answering this question the six questions I ask you. The first is: how do you intend to ensure the protection and preservation of the cultural, architectural and archaeological heritage of Galicia when you intend to avoid the protections derived from Galicia's Cultural Heritage Act and the special protection plans already existing? Second: are you aware that you can lose and destroy those architectural, archaeological and environmental values that treasure historic centers, parish nuclei, even historic territories of the streets of Santiago, many of them recognized with the highest category, included in UNESCO's world heritage — the historical city, as we say, the streets of French Santiago, north, the coast and primitive—? Third: how do you intend to resolve the contradictions and legal insecurity that will lead to the adoption of this law in relation to the protections derived primarily from Galicia's previous Cultural Heritage Act, but also from the Land Law and more of the planning figures that protect and regulate many of the goods and areas that may be affected? Fourth: are they aware that it could be incured in a supposed despoil of goods — they are not minor words — members of the heritage, because it also collides with the Spanish Historical Heritage Act, which is a basic law of all the laws of communities, understood as any action or omission that endangers the loss or destruction of all or any of the values that integrate the Spanish Historical Heritage, or disturbs the fulfilment of its social function?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u238	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u239	I'm done. Why did the Government not accept the requirement of the Council of Culture, the Council of Culture, the Department of Heritage? Sixth, and most importantly: are they aware that they might incur an alleged unconstitutionality of failure to comply with Article 46 of the Constitution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u240	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cuña. Mrs. Vázquez Mejuto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u241	Good afternoon, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Mrs. Cuña, the truth is you never stop surprised. Today they bring here a baffled inquiry of incorrect statements, not to say false, which do not contain the legal text approved by this House on April 9th, nor, of course, the text which, after being approved, will enter into force on May 22nd this same year. It is true that at least this is not a repeated interpellation, because they come twice with the same question or interpellation — which in this case was from Mr. Sánchez. You, at least, changed it a bit. But once you've read your initiative, I'm not sure of your intentions, believe me. Because, one out of two, or they haven't read the law, and therefore they can't be objective -- and being no objective, they're not exhaustive when they pour out information that doesn't have any truth -- or they pursue something else, and they intend to confuse and deceive the Greeks and the Greeks about a law that only seeks to recover the building. Believe me, it only seeks to recover the building and aims to fight the abandonment and give them life to the historical helmets of our towns and cities — it can be Santiago, it can be Ourense, it can be Tui, it can be any municipality that crosses the Way of Santiago. It's about fighting that abandonment. It is therefore a pioneering law in Galicia, of the first of the state, which reflects in addition — if you have read it, if you had been able to interpret it and therefore had not been with second...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u242	Quiet, quiet! Quiet, Mr. Sánchez, please. No, no, please! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You're the one who cremated. Let's give attention to who's in the use of the word. [[Strong murmurers.]] Silence for all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u243	It's a Junta bet for rehabilitation and therefore for housing. You come to this House with numerous statements referring to the law that do not correspond to reality at all. And that's why I'd like to tell you clearly that the rehabilitation regulations, first of all, do not say that a special plan is useless. That doesn't say anywhere. On the contrary, it powers the figure of special plans. And so it's collected in article 15, when he talks about how to plan rehabilitation actions. In that article it is powerful. But also in Article 45, which provides for the adoption of a model special protection plan. Therefore, first falsehood. Second falsehood: it does not treat all sets in a uniform manner, since it precisely establishes the need to have a specific dynamisation plan for each field in which each and every one of its particularities is addressed. And the third falsity, of course, is that it's not a blank check for agents of real estate and urban speculation. And you named Santiago, and Santiago must know that the city has no special plan. And by the way, the PP in 2015 left a contract for the development of a new plan adapted to the reality of the 21st century, precisely to preserve, maintain and revitalize Santiago's heart. You ask Compostela to open up what she did about it. But you're still exploiting that mantra of speculation again, that everything that Joine does goes in that direction, uniquely and exclusively, of speculating. And this is totally false. The law makes it clear that all proceedings are subject to the permanent custody of administrations. That is how you collect it in your Article 11, which says that the management of revitalization and regeneration actions, both public and private, corresponds to public entities. In short, the necessary participation of individuals, private initiative, in order to carry out rehabilitation actions that revive abandoned real estate is always subject to control. Therefore, none of his claims are true. You don't even say what makes the law, because sometimes you can interpret, but the law doesn't say anything about what you're going to transmit to us today. But not just today, they say it all the time. We are before a law that has been drafted participatoryly and that has included the approaches of the various agents involved, and that responds and gives solutions to all possible problems that may arise when rehabilitating a property. And I'm sure that, if you had ruled, you'd been in a municipality and been a conciliator, you'd realize the difficulties a landlord has in rehabilitating a non-BIC real estate. And it simply responds to solutions, solutions in different areas. Participation was a reality not only during but even before bringing the law here, even within what was the draft itself. And there were consultations, consultations with those they know, with those they know, with those who meet reality, which are the different offices linked to ARI, consultations with the Consorcio do Casco Vello de Vigo, consultations with the technicians, of course, of the Council of Culture; also the detailed analysis carried out by the Strategic Plan for the dynamization of historical helmets, coordinated by the Council of Culture, and also a comprehensive analysis of the special plans of historical sets. From all this work at the end came to conclusions, conclusions that allowed us to detect a number of barriers and obstacles that made it difficult for urban rehabilitation and regeneration, such as — for example — we mentioned — the administrative and management barriers — we have to be agile, and that is what we want with this law — the barriers to the acquisition of real estates — we have obligations, but we also have some duties, and we cannot have some buildings destroyed, collapsed, and that above are dangerous, and that cannot be done because a owner does not want to do anything at all, even if they give him all the possibilities — and there are also problems of housing, social and demographic problems, and funding problems. And what we did was we tried to give solutions and propose solutions. And that's what the law is: giving solutions and proposing solutions. And for this we enable three major blocks of measures: first, to facilitate public intervention and to ensure permanent protection in actions; second, to promote coordination between administrations, both by giving speed to procedures and by encouraging the viability of actions and by ensuring the protection of the heritage; and third, by encouraging the participation of individuals in rehabilitation. And apart from that, he was affixed by the public participation of all the agents involved in rehabilitation. Thus, 42% of the state's arrivals, which presented a total of 132 allegations, were admitted; 73.9% of the ESC's arrivals, which presented a total of 23; and, in addition, the General Directorate for Cultural Heritage actively participated in drafting the legal text — I think I can say it higher, but I think it cannot be clearer — and I have done so particularly intensively in Chapter V of Title I, which regulates interventions in the buildings included in the territorial scope of the categories of goods defined in the Cultural Heritage Act. With all these possessions, and as it could not be otherwise, the protection and preservation of cultural heritage believe that they are fully guaranteed. And they're still protected by the Cultural Heritage Act, as well as by the special protection plans and the other instruments that regulate this rule. And they are also guaranteed by the Rehabilitation Act, which will undoubtedly contribute significantly to conservation and protection, because on the one hand it includes measures of empowerment and recovery of historical helmets that go further and include economic measures, social, cultural, impulse and commercial activity measures, all-time betting not only physical but also social and giving rise to genuine comprehensive rehabilitation. It develops and implements mechanisms already collected in state legislation to encourage and rehabilitate, as well as to eliminate possible pitfalls that make recovery of the already constructed one difficult.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u244	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u245	And I'm done. It also includes mechanisms for collaboration between administrations. And finally, it takes measures to facilitate recovery actions in the already built. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u246	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the replica round has the word to Mrs. Cuña Bóveda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u247	Counselor, you haven't answered any of the questions, neither of the six. No, not at all. He also accuses me of ignorance — something very serious from my point of view. I can tell you what ignorance, yours. I don't know if you've read the Krakow Charter, for example. If you want, I'll leave you, and you can read it. "Article 12 — Pre-management requirements and actions in urban areas. I'm gonna go very fast because time flies. Well, chapter III — planning of the actions of the urban environment — section 1a... only enumerated, because, as you will know the law as the palm of your hand, it is not necessary to formulate or develop any more. Article 16 — Simplified processing of planning instruments — Articles 41 and 42 — buildings with level of environmental protection — Historical helmets, Article 43, which is very important for the heritage —parcelaire — Well, we could keep enuming, I don't have to prove anything. It's very talented or very daring. I think it's a lot of ignorance of yours. Please tell me, don't you think this is going to be a mess, do you? What are they playing at? We want the Sacred Ribeira, on the one hand, to be the heritage of humanity, and we open the door to which it loses value. Can you explain, please? First explain me, give me an answer, because the questions are very mature, they're not random questions, they're absolutely rational and relevant questions. Tell me why they didn't count on the Culture Council, why they didn't report. He talks to me about other people they've consulted, but not about them strictly related to the defense of our heritage. Then, act on 90% what can change? Is it worth losing the class of humanity's heritage all over the city by this law? They're talking about recovering the intangible property and in time they're trying to tear down the material. Look, stop the car and reason, please, because demagogy doesn't get into this, and you've just been absolutely demagogic. That my fellow present some amendments did not contradict him at all, and it is entirely consistent with us to make an inquiry and then the motion. I'll tell you how I believe it, really, Counselor... when you've just said hello to the Economic Counsellor, I want to tell you how important I have to tell you. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u248	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u249	Misguided you, you always cut! I'm clear! [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Look, this may have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u250	Quiet, quiet! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, Mrs. Prado, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u251	Article 46 of the Constitution, which you too will know very well, does not speak of rights but of programmatic principles. It can set foot on a resource of unconstitutionality. [[Murmurs.]] If you want to take it lightly, take it as you like. O Allah! It doesn't work out, but it forces you to legislate. If you haven't heard me in the first part, this has to do with the first part. Well, the unconstitutional resource is possible. And I'll tell you more, Counselor, if you want to listen to me. There are three...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u252	Mrs. Cuña, please continue. Then don't complain about being brought in. So, please continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u253	Well, you're breaking up, you're violating this law. [[Murmurs.]] I'm sorry, I'm gonna try to be quiet. It's time for the 6th, it's a bad hour, it's time for the digestion. You are violating autonomous laws, state law, the Constitution itself and international recommendations. [[Murmurs.]] If it seems to you that I have no category to interpret the law, there you are. Well, they're talking about agitating bureaucratic procedures, better channeling help. But what we have to say is how they're going to explain, please, how they're going to explain to the small traders that may disappear. Because you know it well, you know it well. [[Murmurs.]] Restoration must be careful, respectful. In advanced societies and cults that care about their history and inheritance, they do. There's examples like Lyon's. Take a look. You don't know how to control all this wealth, you don't know. They don't know how to master it and they despise a part of the experts.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u254	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u255	I'm done. The reports requested... [[Murmurs.]] It's very difficult, there's a short circuit with so much interference. But, well, I'll follow, I'll stay for a couple of minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u256	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u257	Sorry, seconds, seconds...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u258	Ah! Finish, please. [[Murmurs.]] Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u259	The reports requested are not only relevant, but should be brought together if you had the least congruence. International conventions, in case I didn't know...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u260	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u261	Mrs. Angelles, thank you. Explain the reasons for non-compliance.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u262	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u263	Tell me at least two out of six questions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u264	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vázquez Mejuto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u265	Good afternoon. The truth is, I see a little bit of trouble, I don't know if something happened this morning or if it's true that where it happens is in some group, and that's extrapolated to the laws that citizens are going to refuse, to all the Greeks and Greeks. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And we must differentiate. One thing is what can happen to us at individual or group level and another thing is that, when it comes to questioning, we do it as we should, as we should. [[Applause]] And believe me that I, out of respect, can look at you. But if you say hello to your partner, I won't draw your attention. Because I've read the questions before. You don't have to pay attention to the thousand per thousand you're saying. Therefore, respect is asked of you, because in addition to what society demands. Mrs. Cuña, with her accusations — which are accusations again — which shows you are a wide disregard of the law, she likes or doesn't like it. So try to criticize. And I believe that the municipalities endorse the law, municipalities of different acronyms. And those are the people who are next to the citizens. And the citizen is what he asks for. But you guys don't want to go back. They show an absolute lack of respect for the truth, for the truth.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u266	Silence! Silence! Mr. Prado, be quiet! Mr. Sánchez, please be quiet! No, Mr. Prado and Mr. Sanchez. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me a moment, Counselor. Silence! Silence! I'm gonna have to start calling the order. It's just amazing. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u267	And his intention to repeat over and over again a mantra has no foundation; that is to say, as much as they say it is unprotected...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u268	Excuse me a moment, Counselor. Mr. Sánchez, I call you by order. Mr. Prado, I call you by order. They're called to order you and you, okay? Thank you, go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u269	I repeat again: the Rehabilitation Act is clear. And in it there is no protection of cultural heritage, no protection of cultural heritage, quite the contrary, it contributes to its protection, conservation and recovery of the most abandoned ancient helmets. The protection of the heritage is guaranteed, and I repeat it again in case it is not clear to you. Because you say no, and I don't know what you're based on to say no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u270	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u271	I urge you, the Union is not protecting its heritage. It's the fifth time I'm telling you. The only thing that is done through the Rehabilitation Act is to speed up, it's to make it easier for citizens to get the real estate out of the way; the opposite is what you say trade is going to disappear. No, look, trade would disappear if we weren't agile, if we didn't allow them to add two basses to make them wider, because they have to be competitive — that's the opposite of what you say — providing Galicia, therefore, with a standard that seeks to foster the culture of rehabilitation and make it compatible with protection, heritage and rehabilitation. Therefore, among the objectives highlighted by the law is to facilitate and, on the other hand, to promote the culture of rehabilitation, to promote economic, social and demographic dynamization while compatibility the protection of the heritage and living conditions of housing. Because you will understand that they are the ones who have their dwelling in the old helmets, those who say they want to live differently, Mrs. Cuña. Or do we want to impose on them from here how they have to live? Well, they can live just like you or me -- who live in a house far away -- just like on any floor. They want to rehabilitate but they want their habitability to be the right one, which they demand. And that's what the Rehabilitation Act is based on, no less or less, but you're with another mantra and see whether it's quiet or not. [[Applause]] So nothing you said is true, you don't see the protections derived from the Cultural Heritage Act. Where did you see them? They're totally guaranteed. We don't put architectural or environmental values at all in danger. There is no legal insecurity, believe me, there are relevant reports. Where did you get that legal insecurity? The Spanish historical heritage, which seems to have come here with a bomb, is not put in danger or at risk of being swept away. No, that's not what we want. And if you don't meet the requirements of the Galician Culture Council...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u272	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u273	...not at the Cultural Council. But it's true that, if you wanted, to decentrate a roof, you'd have to come with a report to Heritage, even though in the municipalities they already reported and, therefore, there was a delay — and those who said the roof said to the outside carpentry—
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u274	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u275	It doesn't contain us. Because we want another Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u276	Thank you very much, Counselor. We move on to the next item on the Government's question-day. Question of Da María Incarnation Amigo Díaz and eight other Members of the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, about the situation in which each of the projects promoted by the Galician Union for the new neighbourhood of Residence in Lugo are located.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u277	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Amigo Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u278	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counsellor, with complete certainty one of the most ambitious projects of urban transformation and of the provision of new services for citizenship has its epicenter in the neighborhood of Residence, in the city of Lugo. And his authorship, impulse and execution comes from the hands of the Galician Union. The Greek Government will make a positive transformation of this space and the city as a whole, with a modern comprehensive health centre, with a new residence for older people, with the employment and training office, with the new headquarters of the aeronautical accelerator, with a biomass thermal power plant and, if the central government does not land the previous commitment, with the new police station. They are public services designed for our neighbors and neighbors, for the welfare, ultimately, of all the lights. And they're also projects that will serve as a point of launch in the integral transformation of a neighborhood that aspires to recover the lost protagonistism. Those of us who live in Lugo see how the works progress nothing more and nothing less than with a performance of great technical complexity. I'm talking about the overthrow of the old general hospital, which at the moment so much service offered up to the opening, in the first legislate of the government Feijóo, of the new Lucus Augusti Hospital. We also follow up on the administrative processing of all projects. Together, she works in the development of technical documents, tenders, adjudications, she takes firm and determined steps to transform Place to the best and to make reality the new neighborhood of the Residence. However, according to the information we're going to know, we're not counting on the collaboration expected and due by the local socialist government, something that, of course, does not surprise us either. We know that the socialists do not cease to set traps, which prevents the development of the projects projected with urgency and rhythm that deserves an initiative of this importance. There are those who, in order to hide their own weaknesses, prefer not others to do. So from the People's Group we ask the Board to persevere, to maintain commitment and to work on the integral transformation of the residential district. Because the lights deserve to have these new services and are far above a local government that doesn't do or lets do. Counselor, today we brought this plenary question to this House. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u279	Thank you very much, Mrs. Friend. Mr. Martínez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u280	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Allow me to point out three questions. The first is that this is an ambitious project, designed by the German Government to rehabilitate and revitalize the residential district, the largest urban transformation ever carried out by the Galician Union; and leads to the creation of a new neighbourhood of services for citizens. The second is that Junta is doing the duties, and all the procedures we have in relation to our competences. And the third is that we are waiting for the rest of the administrations involved to assume their own. As I'm telling you, the goal is to convert the neighbourhood of residence, with an investment of more than 24 million euros by the board, into a reference to modernity, innovation, accessibility and sustainability. We act in the public heritage, which we try to put value on, and we also contribute to lowering rents — all this within the heritage plan. We are facing a performance that has never been done in Galicia, for we have transformed a whole neighborhood to equip the citizens of Lugo with different services in the same space; a very complex but also very ambitious performance, as I shall explain. The integral health center, the first of all Galicia, will concentrate in the same building a modern health center, mental health units, the base of 061 and the continued point of care. The global project also includes the urbanization and demolition of several attached buildings. Well, in August 2017 we auctioned the technical project, which we dealt with in December of that year. In September 2018 we signed an agreement with the Town Hall of Lugo. In November, we published in the Official Journal of Galicia the management order from the Health Council to the Galaga Agency of Infrastructures to carry out the works. And since October 2018 we have had the favourable report of the Directorate-General for Heritage. Unfortunately, we've been waiting for months for the municipal license. With regard to the new training and employment office, last week the Board authorized the backlog of the administrative pavilion to carry it out. At the same time, we're going to ask Social Security to reverse the property, a new assignment to the Union, obviously, and an occupation authorization, agreed upon with them, to carry out the rehabilitation work. In relation to the entrepreneurship centre, Junta created the Space Innovation Centre in December 2018. As for the socio-sanitary residence, in the plot where he will rise he will be carrying out the demolition of the general hospital. And the forecast is that in September this year they end, given the complexity of this demolition too, the so-called works. Moreover, this demolition will free up enough space to accommodate the very necessary Lugo police station, committed by the former People's Party government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u281	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u282	So since June, we've been taking all the steps within our competences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u283	Thank you very much, Counselor. Madam, Mrs. Amigo Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u284	Counselor, honestly, what a pity! Lugo is a city paralyzed by the government of the Socialist Party in the last 20 years. He doesn't even let it go. It is certain that this attitude will have consequences sooner than later. It is not wrong to know how often each project is in a position to see the great contrast. While the Union continues to work to make its commitments real, the Town Hall is looking for traps. And when he doesn't find them, he even invents them. You have perfectly described the great change to the neighborhood of the Residence — today divided by the buildings of the old general hospital, already in disuse. I am still convinced that in Lugo what happens in many other cities in Galicia, that there are people who are very interested in that the work and management of the Union is not seen so as not to contrast with the paralysis of the Town Hall. What great work did the Town Hall, the local government of the Socialist Party, in Lugo? I'm going to summarize it: none. We can only ask you to persevere, to continue with your projects, to demand even the central government to fulfill its share in all this process and not to deprive the place of the new police station engaged. Junta is the largest investment effort in the city of Lugo and its province. Those who want a place in negative will eventually be overcome by reality. The paralysis of municipal licenses is not only suffering from public projects, but also the neighbors and neighbors of Lugo suffer from it, and businesses and businesses and businesses. No one asks for a favor deal, but no artificial trappings for the new neighborhood of the residence and for projects that exceed, as you told us, the 24 million euros. Counselor, in the closing turn I thank you for clarifying us a little bit more by the time at which point each of the performances is at. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u285	Thank you very much, Mrs. Friend. You have the reply by the Government, Mr. Counsellor, Mr. Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u286	Your Honor, I have already advanced to you in my first intervention what we are doing at the Galician Summit, something that has never been done since my optics before in Galicia. But unfortunately we're finding the same problems as ever. Since June, we've been pushing, but other administrations have been retreating or even paralyzing him. You asked me how specific projects are. I'll try to explain. At the comprehensive health centre and the aerospace entrepreneurship centre, where we are already investing 3.2 million euros and more than 9 million euros are planned, simply for the rehabilitation of the work that will contain both functional contents we need the municipal license, which we have already requested in July 2018 and has not yet been granted. And we're responding to all the requirements and requests for information they make to us from the Town Hall of Lugo. The latter was the adaptation of the project to obtain the best operation of the biomass management centre, which, as you know, will also provide service to all buildings. In that regard, the last communication with the Lugo Town Hall is from May 2nd. We hope, therefore, that they will not put any more traps in order to be able to bid the work as soon as possible. It's also true, and it's worthy of acknowledgement, that these pitfalls are not solely the Town Hall of Lugo. Because we have a similar case in the recent auction we've just made of the Amizar Space in Coruña, where we've also applied for a license since November 2018 and we still don't know anything. With regard to the new employment office, we will apply for the license to the Town Hall of Lugo in the near future. The project is finished. We're talking about €2.551.000 and an 11-month deadline. Please don't differ any more, if we have all the reports coming in. The same is true of the biomass plant, which already has projects and budgets. In particular, demolition must be carried out, and it will be more than 264,000 euros; and 994,000 more for what is the civil work and the equipment of the biomass center. From the socio-sanitary residences, as I told you, the deadlines began to run, and we hope that without delay — for our part will not be so — as of next September, when the demolition works are finished. Obviously, what's left? The new Lugo police station. And, obviously, what do we have? The total inaction of the Central Government — in the interests of the previous government — in the last ten months. I suppose the people of Lugo and the Lugo police will know the conditions under which they are currently serving. So — and I'm done — I repeat the commitment, as it cannot be otherwise. And we're not doing anywhere in Galicia the piece so singular and emblematic that we're doing in the new neighborhood of Lugo Residence. And I ask the rest of the administrations -- I've also done so in a question from the representative of the Socialist Party not many months ago -- to collaborate, to stop setting traps and issuing reports that create timely...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u287	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u288	...because the people of Lugo well deserve that new space of modernity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u289	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Da María Toja Suárez and two other MPs by G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the state of execution in which the parliamentary agreement relates to the analysis of the feasibility of creating a direct link between the highway of the Costa da Morte and the industrial polygon of Vimianzo, towards Camarínas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u290	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Toja Suárez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u291	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. First of all, I'd like to greet my companions who are upstairs in the rostrum, my comrades in Vimianzo. Being an entrepreneur in Galicia is not easy. Feijóo has many outstanding issues, including developing a business plan involving economic agents and supporting the three basic pillars: innovation, training and financing. But to be an entrepreneur or an entrepreneur on the Coast of Death, or Bergantinos, assumes, in addition, a difficulty, which is transport and communication. Let's see. Connection to the south of Galicia is complicated. Getting there from Corcubion, Fisterra, Cee or Mujía to Santiago takes more than an hour. Imagine reaching south of Galicia. Carballo's Circulation doesn't exist, although it's now an election promise from the candidate to the Mayor of Carballo. And we'll see if we understand this correctly. A few months ago, in December, they voted against an amendment to the PSdeG budgets in which we were asking for precisely that circle of Carballo. And now the candidate for the mayor of Carballo presents, as a star electoral promise, that circle of Carballo. You'll explain to me how they're going to do it without budgets. I, if I were from Carballo, wouldn't trust me much, the truth. [[Applause]] The failure to complete the high-capacity route of the Costa da Morte — let us remember the unending commitment — made serious inconveniences; among them, one in Vimianzo's business park. Why is that an inconvenience? It is an inconvenience because, as you know, the fact that there is no such access forces the heavy traffic — which is derived from the business park — to have to enter Vimianzo's hull, arrive at the crossing of Posts and turn left there. That's a problem, because now there's traffic congestion, because it's an area of loading and unloading and, besides that, because Vimianzo has life, there's market, there's people walking around, it's very close to the church. And so there's a congestion problem and there's a security problem, because it's a dangerous crossing. Besides, there's little room for heavy vehicles to handle. So, given that situation, we've been presenting an amendment for two years since the Socialist Group, so that this access to Vimianzo's business park has been approved from the highway, and it has been approved. What happens is, two years later, we've been asking questions from our group and the answer is that the viability of the group is always being analyzed. So what we ask you today is what situation this parliamentary agreement is in, and if you really, after two years, keep analyzing it. Because we asked ourselves: Vimianzo's entrepreneurs could spend two years without paying wages, without paying fees, without paying VAT? Impossible, those rhythms of work are not understood. Two years later there has to be some conclusions and there has to be some clarification about whether or not they're going to make that access to Vimianzo's business park. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u292	Thank you very much, Mrs. Toja. Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u293	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Toja, the fact is that there are municipal elections. And now, with electoralism, there are urgent questions, like those of the Coruña intermodal, which is urgent and... well, I continue. [[Murmurs.]] There's a deal and we've answered it in writing. And we already told him that we were working on the conclusions of that feasibility analysis for the incorporation of that link to connect with the industrial polygon of Vimianzo. And the answer to your question is yes, we have fulfilled that parliamentary agreement. But to me the truth is, I'm surprised you're talking to me about the Death Coast and investments on the Death Coast of Galician People's Party. Three first stones of the Socialist Party on the Highway of the Death Coast, and 27 kilometers of a free-to-peak bus. The Socialist Party, three first stones, and 27 kilometers of a free toll-free bus where we invest 170 million euros. [[Applause]] And yes, free of charge, despite the fact that others said we were going to pay. And we see what the peas policies of the Socialist Party are. We see, you know, Mr. Abalos, we've already seen aggravating Galicia and we've seen what the Socialist Party's peas policy is. So companies don't know how it's gonna go. [[Applause]] But in any case, the curious thing is that reflection on the Death Coast. You know I'm from the Death Coast, too. I grew up on the Coast of Death and, therefore, I know the Coast of Death well. And I personally implicated myself to run 27 miles of toll from a bus to the Coast of Death. [[Murmurs.]] We have complied with the parliamentary mandate by initiating proceedings. You know, on March 31, 2107, we bid that contract of the first phase of construction to continue on the highway from the Coast of Death to Vimianzo, a high-performance route. And it'll be five miles. With the invitation to tender we have already complied with that Parliamentary agreement. These are various aspects, Your Honor, for the connection of that polygon. In any case it's technically viable. I'll tell you about it in the next intervention, which I'm running out of time. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u294	Thank you very much, Counselor. You have the floor to reply to Mrs. Toja Suárez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u295	Of course there are municipal elections. Tell your partner in Carballo, who just voted in favour — let's say he just proposed it as an election promise — of the Carballo circus, when he voted against here. Of course there are municipal elections! [[Applause]] You know it well, this is the electoral legislation of the PP. [[Applause]] On the other hand, I see that the analysis of whether or not there will be access to Vimianzo's business park should continue to be analysed. Because you couldn't give us an answer. We still don't know if there's going to be access or there won't be. He spent his minutes at nothing, because the answer didn't give to her. I tell you that Article 30 of the Galician Autonomy Statute provides that the Autonomous Community of Galicia has exclusive competence over the promotion and planning of Galician economic activity. In this "development and planning of economic activity" the question of accessibility to business parks is included. You announced two years ago the Galician Business Solo Observatory. They announced it, because they didn't get to create it. And I ask you, do you have any conclusions about Vimianzo's business park, about your needs? Do you have any conclusions in that observatory? You don't have it because it doesn't exist. So what they have to do is stop making excuses, stop putting obstacles, make it easier for people on the Death Coast to start their business that can go forward. Look, a few days ago we visited a well-known businessman there, who gives work to some seventy people. And what I was telling us is, "Every time we need transportation, at least we get to them with a day's delay. And that forces us to make certain stock policies and also make an important financial effort. Being an entrepreneur on the Death Coast is very hard, anywhere else would make a lot more money. But you know what keeps me here? Love for my land." That's what the Death Coast businessmen say. And what the Greek Government has to do is make it easier for them to do their job and to facilitate their enterprise so that companies on the Death Coast can keep up. So tell them whether or not they're going to make that access to the business park, which is what we want to ask at the end of the day. Will you go or won't you?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u296	Thank you very much, Mrs. Toja. For the Government's reply, the Minister of Infrastructure and Mobility, Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u297	If you like the Costa da Morte, which I'm worried about, tell the President of the Parliament, because it's been six months without replying to have a meeting on the subject of floods in Vimianzo, Camarinas and Muxia. That's just not to worry about the Death Coast, which is so important is the generation of jobs, why this government bets, like other issues. [[Murmurs.]] But anyway, I already say that the feasibility study is done and is viable. We voted in favour of this initiative, you voted in favour of that initiative, and it is viable. A link was defined at milepoint 5,500 for that possible connection, for a new connection. In the distance, the truth is, we've gone from 5.5, if we go along the highway and the autonomous road, to 5.3 with a new connection. Time saving is not significant, it will be 45 seconds, but that new connection is viable. And that project of prolongation of the Death Coast Highway will predict that connection. But you can understand — I think, if you are from the Vimianzo area, you will have to know — that it is not the Junta de Galicia that is competent to carry out that access to the polygon. It's not Galician Union, and you should know that. It is not Galician Unity which is intended to run that connection to a polygon. Do you know who the polygon is? The polygon is from SEA, Ministry of Development. Just like Junta de Galicia makes access to hospitals, just like access to ports are made to port owners, like access to business parks held by Junta de Galicia, such as those of IGVS and others, it does the Junta de Galicia, the duty of the Ministry is to make access to its business parks. [[Murmurs.]] And I would like that same insistence to be exercised by me and that we jointly ask the Ministry of Development to run that access to their business park, which is from SEA. We'll give the Ministry of Development every facility. This connection, which we consider technically feasible, will be planned for our project. We'll forward all the information and leave everything ready for the Ministry to fulfill its duty and make that access to that polygon, which is its title. And you don't tell me that you don't know that access to hospitals makes them the Board of Galicia, that they make access to ports according to their title, and that access to the polygons of the Galego Institute of Vivenda and Solo, or Xestur, makes them the Board of Galicia. Well, here's the same thing. So it's up to the Ministry of Development to do it. I urge you to wait for your demanding attitude together to be able to do it before the Ministry of Development, and we urge the Ministry of Development to make that connection to that polygon of its title. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u298	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Mr Martín Fernández Prado and six other Members of the G.P. People of Galicia, on the reasons of the Government of Galicia to suspend, on a temporary basis, the procurement process of the interurban public transport concessions by road of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u299	To put the question you have the floor Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u300	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Good afternoon, Counselor. The People's Group is asking this question once we have heard the recent news about the careful suspension of the procurement process of the Public Transport Plan of Galicia. We understand you have this urgency, and you also have an interest, and at least we would like to know your valuation in relation to these news. In his most recent appearance on his own request on this subject, last February, he explained the situation, calendar and prospects that the Government of Greece was handling for the launch of the Public Transport Plan in Galicia, responding to that commitment to transfer information needed to this House. In that appearance he also reflected on the excellent results of the first phase, which started in August 2017, which I would like to remember beginning with the resignation of those companies to continue to provide services, and forced the Board to put forward some of these plans for this summer, this August 2017. As I explained, that first part of the new line map was to public information last February so that all agents could present the allegations and contribute to the improvement of those nearly 100 contracts, which would be 1,900 lines, and reminded us of the importance and concern of the Board to shield employment in the sector, which was translated into new jobs. In particular, it was estimated at 1,113 drivers and at nearly 900 escorts of school routes. They also told us that these 100 contracts are going to involve a turnover of 600 million euros, 60 million dollars a year, of which 50 million will put them on Galician board, and the rest will be paid for the sale of tickets. Of course — I think this explains this volume of business and this important economic approach — the progress of the action that some of the companies have already announced we understand. Clearly, it is legitimate for companies to try to defend the most economic advantage of these concessions and their work, and that is why we also believe that they announce this resource clearly focused on economic aspects. But we also believe it is equally legitimate for the Union to defend the general interests of the Greeks and to try to do not only a good service, but at a reasonable and appropriate price. So once we know this desire of the Galician Council to temporarily suspend this concession contest to give and shield the greatest legal certainty, we would like to know what expectations it has of calendar, what phases or dates it has planned and whether it remains to become...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u301	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u302	...to start in August these lines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u303	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u304	Thank you, Your Honor. I appreciate the question, because this is a subject in my opinion that needs to be addressed and, of course, it is urgent. I fully understand the urgency of this matter and, above all, give the opportunity to move, report on the reasons why we are also asking for such a cautious and temporary suspension of the bid deadline of the Public Transport Plan — a temporary request for the bid deadline that was scheduled for the 3rd of May — and see and explain who really cares about public transport, because we are concerned, because we are talking about employment in the sector and the future of rural life, because the Public Transport Plan is the guarantee of employment in the sector, and it is the guarantee that we will have a future in our rural areas. Others prefer other matters and bring urgency today, in which I am not going to enter. But in any case, speaking of public transport, we're talking about a European legislation, which has been known since 2009, which obliges us to renew all public transport lines, and this year 2019 is the year in which they all expire and each of Galicia's long-distance public transport lines, and we are forced to make an important effort. And for that we are the public officials here, to make efforts and work — it's easy to do nothing — to modernize and adapt public transport to their needs. It is a legal obligation to bid and conduct a transparent and participatory process to adjudicate all transport lines. At the end of March we signed a social clause agreement, because we care about these social clauses, which have been shielded in tendering demands, and on 5 April we started hiring the first hundred contracts to solve gradually all the transport lines of all Galicia. We bid practically the entire province of Lugo, the province of Ourense, the area of Ferrol, the Coruña and a small area of Pontevedra, almost 2,000 lines of transport. The deadline for tendering would end on 3 May, but the fact is that we are asking for this temporary paralysis of tendering before the announced, legitimate appeal of the companies they would present. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We want the absolute legal correction and, above all, not to prejudice the bidders who were going to present their offer on May 3rd. We consider it preferable to suspend temporarily and that the Court should be given a ruling in order to shield legal security. And especially because we are talking about a plan that is necessary for employment, it is the guarantee of employment, it is the guarantee of our rural future. Without this plan, employment remains in limbo, drivers remain in limbo, and the future of rural life would really be in chronic isolation. Therefore, maximum guarantees for working on this transport plan, because, ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious. It's easy not to do anything. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u305	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Fernández Prado has the floor for the replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u306	Thank you very much for your reply, Counselor. I believe that it is clear that behind this notice of appeal there is clearly economic interests on the part of companies — as I said on my first day — that I understand that we have, of course, legitimized! But I would like to ask the Counsellor whether there is anything more specific or detailed about the economic aspects of the tenders that have just been suspended cautiously and how they have taken account of these economic aspects since the Council within this new stage of the tender, particularly in relation to the first stage. I would also like to transfer that from the People's Group we want to commit our support and collaboration to the implementation, modernization and renewal of public transport in Galicia. We understand that it is a basic service, especially as it is envisaged, for rural areas. And that's why we also encourage you to keep fighting, because we understand that you're going to follow pressure, economic interests are a lot. We have already seen in the first phase how the pressures will come from all areas, because, of course, everyone, legitimately, has interests in this invitation to tender, but we understand that it is even more important that he continues to defend the general interests of Galicia and the whole of citizenship, because, as we saw in the first stage, there was a similar request, a similar appeal, and it was not accepted by the Court, we understand — and I hope, moreover, that it will not be accepted at this time if that time has to fail — that it is much more important that we continue in that process as soon as possible to modernise this service and that we can have this service as soon as possible in a way already operational throughout Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u307	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Prado. You have, in reply, the word of the Government, the adviser to Infrastructure and Mobility, Mrs Vázquez Mourelle.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u308	Thank you, Your Honor. The truth is we have enough experience to know that companies don't like us to auction the transport lines. It is normal for companies to want concessions to be infinitely theirs and to be perpetual for businesses themselves, but the fact is that it is incompatible with the general interest and, above all, it is also incompatible with compliance with the laws, because we would be making an illegality. So the duty and legal obligation of the Galician Council is to bid and address the Galician Public Transport Plan with a transparent and open procedure, and so we are doing. And we are not surprised at the announcement of an action by transport companies. They did it in 2017 and they did it and we did it and we saw what happened, that they said the contracts were ruinous and presented to the competitions with even fearsome casualties. Therefore, I think it was foreseeable that they would present that resource, that they would announce that resource, that they had not yet submitted themselves, and, in any event, we suppose that they would present that resource in the morning. We have decided to bet on this cautious suspension by paralyzing — I insist — the deadline for submission of tenders. Our request was accepted to paralyze the deadline for submitting tenders for the legal correction of all proceedings and to avoid the submission of tenders from the rest of the tenderers while no progress was made on that pending appeal. I think it's worth waiting a bit and moving forward with full legal guarantees, safeguarding public interest and, above all, knowing and being aware that we're talking about a plan that is the future of rural life, we're talking about a plan that is the guarantee and security of jobs, which, if not, remains in limbo. It is an economically balanced plan, because that is the case in the technical reports of the experts. There are 100 contracts with EUR 500 million of public funds, with a turnover of EUR 600 million, only these 100 contracts, of an average Galicia. From Galicia, we've reached 50 million euros a year for them to have public transport. For this economic approach to previous contracts, which are practically the same as in 2017, that is, the same as in 2017, what we are auctioning in 2019 is practically the same, but with 16% more public funds. More investment, therefore, to ensure the subrogation of employment and the economic viability of contracts. It seems to companies that they don't like us to comply with this legal obligation to bid with a transparent procedure. It is legitimate and we respect it, but the Council of Galicia and we owe ourselves to the general interest, we must give ourselves more and better services, we must guarantee all jobs to the urban transport sector and we must give guarantees to the future of rural people, because they are at stake, of course — the workers in the sector and the future of rural people. And I insist again: the easy thing would be to do nothing. Here we are to work.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u309	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the forecasts of the Government of Greece for the service of the new intermodal station of the Coruña
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u310	To put the question, you have the floor Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u311	Thank you, President. Counsellor, you have already announced to us in some way that it was not important to speak in this government control session at the Intermodal Coruña Station. And it's true that talking about the intermodal station of the Coruña is about the history of the failure of major projects in the Coruña area in these years of government, both of the Autonomous Government and of municipal governments. And in that sense, as you know perfectly well, after almost a decade of delay, the Board, the Council of the Crown and Adif signed in October 2017 an agreement for the execution of this intermodal station project after including the proposals made by the municipal government and its Council were committed to speeding up the necessary actions in accordance with the regulatory regulations of public emergency or special interest projects. In addition to the funds provided by the General Administration of the State through Adif, the Government of Greece undertook to co-finance this urgent action in the city with EUR 10 million, eight coming in principle from the European funds. But in June last year, Madam Counsellor, you lost these European aid for the real delays in the work, which could not be started, as we seem to be observing, by 2020. In November last year they re-aligned the drafting of the project, incorporating new criteria from the local government of the Crown and demonstrating you, Counsellor, that finally the works of the new station, of incorporating the bus station into the intermodal of the Crown, would not be until the end of 2022 or early 2023, estimating an approximate cost of works of 19 million euros, while Adif does not wait for the board or the municipal government and is performing the precise performances for the arrival of the AVE to the city, with a little more than forty-five million euros. Thus, this key infrastructure for the mobility of the entire coruña area amounts successive delays in relation to similar performances in other cities of Galicia, such as Santiago, Vigo or Ourense. Because if we look at the 2019 budgets, annuality, only annuality of 2019, in Santiago are perfectly charged 13.4 million euros, in Vigo 7.8 million euros, in Ourense 3 million euros, in Pontevedra 1.6 million euros — and it seems fantastic — but in Coruña are only 150,000 euros. The Socialist Parliamentary Group had tabled an amendment in the process of budgetary debate amounting to three million euros, which had been absolutely discarded by the German Government in the parliamentary debate procedure. That's why, and very syntheticly, the questions, Counsellor, are: what are the actual forecasts today of the Greek Government for putting into service at the intermodal station of the Crown? And, by the way, please answer, if you are going to make it easier for them to process the necessary urban changes, which if the case is the case, to put in place this new basic equipment for the city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u312	Thank you very much, Mr. Villoslada. Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u313	Thank you, Mr. Villoslada. Urgent isn't the same as important, it's not the same as urgent; in any case, it doesn't tell me the importance of intermodal stations, where we're lying. But what surprises me is your sudden interest in the intermodal station of the Crown and intermodal stations. In any case, who should be asked this question of the delay of the Intermodal Coruña Station is to their government partner, because that's what you supported. The Atlantic Tide of the Coruña is ruling because you supported it and it is the cause of the delay of the intermodal station of the Coruña. Of course it is, of course, cashew. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In any case, they consider the emergency. Here we are to answer and there is no problem, with great pleasure, in talking about the intermodal station, whose delay — I insist — is a consequence that you supported the Atlantic Tide to assume the government. Because the only real jobs that have really moved forward at the intermodal station of the Coruña were this board of Galicia and the Ministry of the Development of Ana Pastor and of the Senra's Nest. And I'll explain why. It was the year 2015 when we gave a new boost to the intermodal stations in Galicia. Our idea was to start with Santiago, Vigo, Ourense and La Coruña; we started with the four at the same time. And the truth is, we've had contacts with the municipalities, with each of the municipalities, to talk about the projects. The result: the last quarter of 2015 we advanced in Santiago, Vigo and Ourense; in Coruña, no. We had to wait for that council that supported you to define your position, because it is true that in the criteria it is difficult to decide at the Town Hall of Coruña. They sent their appreciations and we auctioned the two weeks with the appreciations sent to us by the Council of the Crown, because we want to do these projects in consensus and coordination, as we have seen with the Town Councils. In August we had the company working. In February 2017 — as you have reported — a basic project, a basic project, by the way, which was intended to humanize the entire Sardinian street by making a more humane, more pleasant area, with vegetable elements and, of course, to make a city in that area of the Coruña with important functional expectations of the intermodal station. Later — I think you know — there were communications, which began in the middle of 2017 to profile changes in criteria — they talked about resizing, then optimization. The summary summary summary: the grade was much less investment for the intermodal of the Crown, which was what the Council of the Atlantic Tide requested. Unheard of, it was the first time I was going through, that a county asked for a cut in an intermodal station. But, in any case, that change of approach, that substantial change — in correct legal terms — which I assumed was: suspending a contract, proposing a basis for agreeing to that criterion and that there were no further changes in criteria, terminating a contract, throwing the work done — a lot — and starting again. And so we are, waiting for the agreement for urban processing and for the rest the Ministry and the Town Hall to answer us, and working on our project. For my part, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u314	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Díaz Villoslada has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u315	Counsellor. You, as usual, confuse the city's governance with the institutional capacity of agreements and the ability to make opposition. But, finally, this is the situation we have. I did a review of other situations of different colored governments in different cities, and there really could be fewer problems than in the Coruña. That's why we have the feeling — only the feeling, but there's the empirical evidence here, above the table — that precisely with the Crown it doesn't have the same commitments as with other cities; we don't know why. But that will be done on May 26th — as we all know —. Because the autonomous government and the municipal government have turned the city into a table of pipes, but they don't put a ball on the table, neither do they. This is so clear. Latest dates, November 2018: "Ethel Vázquez ensures that the new project and urban changes delay the start of the works – Xiao Varela estimates it possible to advance its implementation". March 2019: "The Board has not yet received the design for the accesses." April 2019: "Marea says that the deadlines of the Board show their guilt" — by Junta de Galicia. Counsellor, the AVE will arrive in Galicia, in principle, in accordance with the deadlines currently in progress, by 2020. The AVE will enter the Coruña without the integration of buses, which are the competence of the autonomous government. Once again, we saw a serious lack of capacity for institutional dialogue between the autonomous government and the municipal government of the Crown. But in addition, the government's service sheet Feijóo in Coruña is the one they know perfectly well: metropolitan authority of transport, nothing; consortium of harbour reordination, nothing—and in addition to possible chiringuit—; center of health of Falperra, nothing; via Ártabra, not connected to A-6; even nothing—and I have to say—about Alcoa in ten years of Rajoy's government and seven years of government entering, precisely, Mr. Economy's adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u316	Finish, please. Silence! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u317	Counsellor... it was by chance the Economic Counsellor's entry, but that's true. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u318	Thank you, Mr. Villoslada. Your time is up. [[Balbordo.]] Silence! You'll answer the lady's counseling on the replica shift. Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u319	I thought we were here to talk about the intermodal of the Coruña, which was urgent, we had to talk about it and it was important. But if we have to talk about transport, I urge you again: thanks to this card — not a consortium — young people in the Coruña area — and Pontevedra — can move in free terms with urban transport; without consortium, thanks to the Galician Union. [[Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle shows you a card to the members of the House.]] [[Applause]] The long-distance buses reach the center of the Coruña thanks to the Galician Union, not to a consortium; more ease of transport, less time of travel and much more comfortable. The bus to Santa Cristina — the one from Tranvias da Coruña — comes out thanks to a convention from the Galician Union, not to the transport consortium. And the bus to Zapateira will come out thanks to a proposal for an agreement made by the Galician board, without a consortium that would raise tariffs to people without solutions. We're solving transport problems in the Coruña area; because you talked about transport. In any case, speaking of the intermodal of the Crown: we bid this second contract for the drafting of the project and we insist on asking the Adif and also the Town Hall to share with us their projects. We have the access project that the Town Hall has to do -- we don't know about it -- and there's the Adif project, which was already very advanced in 2017; we'd like you to tell us something in 2019 about the Secretary of State. Look: because you are so worried about the urban process — if you listen to me, that you told me in your speech about the urban process — we proposed an agreement in November 2018 and we are waiting for the mayor of the Coruña and also the Ministry of Development to respond to us; the same agreement that allowed Vigo, Santiago and Ourense to be in work, with sufficient guarantees to execute them, with all guarantees. And neither the Town Hall nor the Ministry of Development replied. I sent you a letter a few days ago to the Secretary General of Infrastructure; I still expect you to answer me when you can bid for the Adif railway station, which was already in 2017 very advanced, and that you answer me to that proposal of agreement. [[Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle shows you a document to the members of the House.]] But in any case, I think there are two ways of doing politics -- as you said -- and the truth is, some of them have models and others do works. [[Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle shows you a photograph of the members of the Chamber.]] That's what we have: models of the Socialist Party, and works... there are the machines, Your Honor, at the Santiago intermodal. [[Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle shows you a photograph of the members of the Chamber.]] Models and works, works; of course they do. [[Murmurs.]] Those are the two ways of working and the two ways of seeing politics and others. [[Murmurs.]] Here we are to work, to do works, to make projects that promote public transport and to improve the quality of life. We want to make that constructive project, we want to do the works and we want to sign that convention, which is the total guarantee to make the intermodal station of the Coruña viable. Please ask the Ministry of Development to reply to this draft of the Convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u320	Thank you, Madam Counselor. We're still on the agenda. Question from Noa Presas Bergantiños and five other Members from the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the performances carried out or planned by the Government of Greece to prevent the disappearance of the Isowat company in Coruña
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u321	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u322	Good afternoon. Counselor, today we have in the workshop workers of Isowat da Coruña; some workers we have to thank for the courage and the courage that they have all these months to put everything on their side for this company to find a solution. First they spent months unpaid and then they looked for the possibility of entering an ERTE, which ends next June. [[Applause]] I hope you can deliver a message of hope to them today and a positive message that since the Galician Union will increase all efforts to find a solution in the coming weeks. I want to remember that this company, which belonged to the Investaresa group, came in a few months ago in competition, and according to the staff board itself, this situation came to this limit not because the company is not viable, not because it is absolutely profitable, but because of the practices of looting and delitivas that the Investaresa itself has committed. I also want to remember that this company operated with two brands: Made in Medina del Campo and Isowat in Coruña, and that at this time for the Medina del Campo plant there is already a solution. This, on the one hand, gives us a message of hope and that we now have to focus on the Coruña, but on the other hand, it's worrisome from the point of view that it is precisely the plant of the Coruña to which the most value added and the most possibilities, a priori, of solution it had, and at the moment it hasn't found an investor. We're talking about a company that, I would like to stress, is leading in our country in integrated medium and low-voltage solutions, which has a long history that already comes from the old Isolux and has added value products that are fundamental, in addition, in the industrial fabric of our country. You know that you make exclusive parts for Navantia, for Repsol, for Naturgy, for Endesa and for a lot of businesses, and that is therefore economically viable, even more at a time when we expect there to be a possible future both in the wind sector and in other energy industries. So you have to put all the interests in a company that has a qualified job, has a future, has added value and has conditions, in addition to, worthy, which is something that we're not going to miss either in employment in Galicia or specifically in industry. We have asked from the BNG on several occasions in the commission to the director of the Igape to follow up the talks that this instrument was going to have, but time is running out. We know that in a month we have to have the roadmap clear and that, therefore, it is key that the Galician Union put on its side all the negotiating capacity possible to make this a political priority of first order in these weeks. We therefore ask you, Mr. Count, what action will be taken to prevent Isowat's disappearance in the Coruña. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u323	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Mr. Conde López has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u324	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Presas. In fact, I also take this opportunity to greet the workers of Isowat. Some workers who know perfectly well that this government has been with them from the very first moment in their search for an exit to their situation; some workers who know that we would like that solution to arrive now, but who also know that the offers they received were not enough, above all they were not sufficient to meet the objectives we jointly mark both the workers and the Council of Galicia itself. Like them, we don't give up. The process is still open, we have time and we're in touch with potential investors to find an offer. An offer that must not only meet the company's viability criteria, but also have the support of the Enterprise Committee itself; that's what we're working on. The workers know perfectly well all the steps they are taking, and logically we will remain busy in defending their jobs and we will continue to be busy in looking for that solution for the future. It's true that we're talking about a company that's been operating for 50 years in the Coruña and therefore a company that has a lot of knowledge and value added to its development. Therefore, the Government remains committed to searching and identifying to support any project that can give you viability through an investor. Of course, the Government will ensure that, in fact, you can find that project and you can find that investor. We're doing this with realism because, logically, the situation is a situation of difficulty. And the government is also ensuring that all legality is met from the point of view of work, to act at the moment when any kind of violation can be known. Therefore, the Galician Union will continue to maintain permanent contact with investors and maintain permanent contact with the Enterprise Committee and with the workers. We share the perspective that today there may be more options than before, but it's also true that it's a perspective for us to continue to work with realism, because to find an investor who can give continuity to a company we have to find a plan that is viable, and in that context we're working on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u325	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Presas Berganginos has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u326	Thank you, Mr. Count. On the side of the Galego Nationalist Block we will remain vigilant and we will continue to bring this issue to the Greek Parliament so that it will remain a political priority, because it seems to us decisive to the industrial future of the Crown that Isowat finds a solution, and also to send a positive message to other companies that are having a bad time in the past few months. We are concerned — and we are asking for an extra effort from the Galician Union in that sense — that there may be some loss of customers, because there are many companies that are waiting for Isowat to be fully performance and that it is working in normal conditions. So we also want to ask you today to make an effort to contact that business fabric which is pending the situation of Isowat to send you a message of tranquility and that there can be no loss in this sense. We also think that, towards the future, we have to learn a lesson from what happened with this company, which is that when public authorities put resources into their hands, they have to be more vigilant than what really happens to these. Because I want to remember that this company received economic accounts from different public administrations, also from the Galician Union, and then the investor, in this case Investaresa, employed some looting practices we have to learn from, because otherwise we would not get to this situation. In any case, today we want to insist, once again, that we also worry about what the immediate departure of this company might be, and we will be on the side of the Galician Union if there really is that commitment. So I'm just finishing by inviting them to, in the last few weeks, being aware that there's a lot of work to be done in the emergency situation in the Galician industry, make a special effort in the situation in Isowat, because we understand that it would also send a positive message to the rest of the industrial crisis. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u327	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. The Councillor for Economics, Employment and Industry has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u328	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Presas, I would really like to see that this approach that you bring here with Isowat — which we share — had it with the rest of the situations that are taking place in Galicia, which, unfortunately, is not so. Unfortunately, the Galician Nationalist Block knows perfectly — and it will be on its conscience — that it does not treat all the Greek workers alike. In any case, the government will continue to work and we will continue to contact those investors. We have to find a feasibility plan and we must logically count on the support of the Enterprise Committee. We will seek that solution from a realistic and solvency point of view, and in that context — I say — we are in contact with the different investors. I would ask you that when you think about this sort of thing, we pose it with a certain rigour. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Presas, tell me about the help given by the Galician Board to the Investaresa group: you should know that those aids you're talking about are only a participatory loan that the Bipartite granted to you in 2007, and that was the only help that transferred it to the Galician board. [[Murmurs.]] My question is, why didn't all the sine mechanisms set up in 2007 say they're asking now? Why, Mrs. Presas? Why are these contradictions when you're in government and when you preach the opposite when you're in opposition? We'll keep working, as I moved you in my first intervention. We're in constant contact with the workers and we'll identify any solution that allows that viability. I don't think we should compare the Medina factory with the Coruña factory: you know that the two companies have totally different activities and the situation of the two companies is completely different. What we're going to do is try to find that solution from realism, but don't ask me to promise impossible, because that's why we're not going to do it and we're not going to transfer expectations that we can't fulfill. What if I can move you firmly is that we're working and we're going to support any solution that gives Isowat the viability of the company. Hence my firmness in the answer and hence my firmness in the perspectives we are working on with the Isowat company and its workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u329	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Mr César Manuel Fernández Gil and seven other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, about the project planned to implement in Ourense related to innovation in vocational training
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u330	To put the question, Mr. Fernández Gil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u331	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Good afternoon, Counselor. The wager for vocational training has been one of the basic lines of action at the level of education of the German Government since 2009. This commitment by vocational training has crystallized in good results: we are talking about an educational model of vocational training that has a very high level of employability in Galicia, above 80 percent; we are also talking about the proliferation of integrated vocational training centres in Galicia, and also about the offer of vocational training adapted to the socio-economic fabric of each region. Finally, we're talking about a bet that gave its fruit, and little by little you'll see how vocational training is increasingly chosen by more pupils and students of the Greek education system as a way of training to develop their professional future. In this sense, within this bet being carried out by the Government of Greece for vocational training, it also includes the creation of the centre of innovation of vocational training, which will be the seat of the city of Ourense. In this sense, on 1 March you signed up for yourself, for the Council of Education and for the Parliament of Ourense, an agreement for the creation of this vocational training centre. Today we want to bring this issue to Parliament so that you can explain to us what it is and what the project is planned to implement as an innovation centre for vocational training in the city of Ourense. A project that, thanks to the collaboration between two administrations, in this case the Government of Greece and the Deputy of Ourense, can be a reality and will convert Ourense into the capital of vocational training at the Greek level, into the neurological centre of vocational training throughout Galicia. I also want to take advantage of this question, as an oransan, to thank you for the work done by the Council and publicly thank you for the work done by the Deputy so that this project can be a reality. And I just want to move the question to you and ask you to explain to us what this new project will consist of the Innovation Centre for Vocational Training in Ourense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u332	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Gil. Mrs. Pomar Tojo has the floor of the Councillor for Education, University and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u333	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Indeed, Your Honor, vocational training plays a decisive role in the development of a competitive economy, as well as in what has to do with teaching, technological innovation and the transfer of knowledge and the ability to engage in our society, in Galician society. I would like to begin by stressing that today, in Santiago, the fourth edition of the FP Innova fair began, which brings together an exhibition area and the celebration of technical and workshops; an event which in 2019 has become the ideal setting for more than 8,000 students and students, teachers and professionals to exchange experiences and knowledge on innovative projects and entrepreneurship projects. FP Innova is the best exponent of the correct mix of education and business. Visitors, as well as other autonomous communities, are attending this exhibition in the City of Culture these days. It is a further proof of this government's determined bet on vocational training, as it is also a bet on the project of the Welsh Innovation Centre of the FP of Ourense, called to be — as you said, lordship — the engine of innovation and the entrepreneurship of these teachings in Galicia. On 1 March, the Board and the Parliament of Ourense signed the Convention for the creation of this centre of innovation of the FP, which will convert the city of Burgas to the common centre so that students, teachers and companies linked to this mode can work and share, working, in addition, as an element of connection and support for the 200 and nine educational centres with vocational training in Galicia. I would like to remind you that with this cooperation agreement, the Parliament of Ourense will bring up five million euros; the Economic Council, 1.5 million, and the Education Council will allocate 3.4 million for the recovery of the building of the old Mariñamansa school and for the operating costs of the centre. I was speaking precisely of the president of this investment this morning here in Parliament. The sum of efforts is fundamental. The ultimate goal is to bet on research, innovation, creativity and talent between the student of vocational training, favoring industrial development and the incorporation of new technologies and providing highly qualified human capital for the Welsh productive tissue. From this centre, which is expected to start in 2020, vocational training adapted to industry 4.0 will be promoted, innovation projects applied will be encouraged and synergies with the productive sector will be created. And, as I said, we're going to rehabilitate, starting this year, the old Mariñamansa school, a building that's up to now abandoned, which is about two thousand six hundred square meters. This is an infrastructure worth recovering, because it occupies a strategic place to be close to the CIFP The Farixa, the reference FP center in Ourense province. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u334	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Fernández Gil has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u335	Thank you very much, Counselor. Well, I would like to reiterate — as I said before — the gratitude for betting on vocational training and for doing so, in addition, in the province of Ourense. We are all aware of the path that followed this idea of the innovation centre of vocational training: how the irresponsibility of other administrations put this project in danger and caused this project to be jeopardized, but fortunately the responsibility — as opposed — of other administrations, as in this case the German Government and the Deputation of Ourense, allowed not only to rescue this project, but rather to be a reality in the short term and in Ourense. In that sense, you pointed out in your intervention that the home school in Marinemassa will be rehabilitated. To finish, in this second round, I would like to say that, once you have explained to us and told us that it will consist of everything that has to do with the functioning of this Innovation Centre of Vocational Training in Ourense, explain to us, if possible, what is the rehabilitation and empowerment project of this Marinemansa Home School so that you can accommodate this new facility of the Innovation Centre of Vocational Training in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u336	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Gil. For the Government's replica round, the Minister of Education, University and Vocational Training, Mrs. Pomar Tojo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u337	Thank you, President. I insist that the centre of innovation of the FP will function as a connection element and as a support element for vocational training centres throughout Galicia. He will be a member of the Board of Education, but for his creation — as I said in my previous speech — it is also important that the Council of Economics, Employment and Industry, the Parliamentary of Ourenses and the main social, business and scientific entities. We believe it is essential to recover this old building from Ourense Marine School as the headquarters of this centre, as it will also contribute to the rehabilitation of a peripheral area of the city, integrating the research and innovation of the FP within a set of existing teaching equipment. The Counsellor is already working on the basic project with the premise that, on the one hand, preserving the existing building, recycling the structure and external closures, and on the other hand, introducing those changes that allow the inside of the old school to be converted into the most diaphragm possible space, with flexible partitions that allow spaces to be exchanged according to the different needs of use. Once rehabilitated, our building will host all sorts of activities related to research and innovation in Galicia's vocational training. That's why it's important to have an adaptable infrastructure, flexible infrastructure and possible changes in future uses caused by technological developments and new work structures. The facilities of the future innovation centre of the FP will have a new plant top cover, which will extend the photovoltaic solar installation of the building, and there will be areas to locate all the necessary installation machinery. Once the interior courtyards are covered on the ground floor and the access to the vertical communication cores is established, the building will have four similar work areas. The proposed features will ensure flexibility, adaptability to new uses and their independence and exchange within the general organization of the building. The project for the new building plans to adopt technical solutions always geared towards achieving greater energy efficiency and lower consumption, as well as providing facilities for the conditions and mechanisms that make it healthy, safe, comfortable and efficient. Building solutions and sustainable materials are planned to make modern and efficient installations from the headquarters of the new centre. The budget for the execution of the works will amount to three and a half million euros. We believe that the headquarters of the European Centre for Innovation of the FP will respond both to teaching activities, researchers and entrepreneurs, as well as to the modern character and the sustainable nature of the building and the urban area in which it will be located. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u338	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question from Patricia Otero Rodríguez and two other MPs from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the measures envisaged by the Government of Galicia to correct the deficiencies in maintenance that presents the building of the Centro de Saúde de Foz
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u339	To put the question, Mrs. Otero Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u340	Thank you, President. Welcome, Counselor. Since the construction of the new Foz health centre and its expansion in 2007, no cleaning or maintenance work has been carried out by Junta de Galicia outside the building. Only by taking a walk around it can you see the humidity it presents and the conditions of insanity that this is producing, with the appearance of greens and mofos that invade the outside of the building, failing the minimum conditions that any public building must present. The Galician Union spends more than half a million euros on putting labels that define as public — as if there were any doubts — different hospitals instead of spending money on improvement and maintenance of buildings that are in a deplorable state. [[Applause]] The abandonment of health centres, the elimination of the marine health area and the cuts in health personnel are the policy of Nuñez Feijóo for the Navy to shine; there is constant discrimination between the Navy and the Navy. One more sample is the removal of a medical emergency technician from the medicalized ambulance based in Foz, but who serves the entire Navy. Foz's medical ambulance is the only one in Galicia where a medical emergency technician is removed. Of all the advanced life support ambulances that have so far existed in Galicia, Foz's is the only one that is suppressed by a medical technician. This situation has to be added to another fact, another discrimination, as it was in 2011 that the People's Government, Junta de Galicia, wrongly cut the schedule of Foz's care ambulance, by twelve hours of the previous twenty-four hours. Discrimination not told by the Socialist Party, but also by the workers of the 061 and the neighbors and neighbors of the Navy, who don't want to be second-rate citizens; they even tell him a mayor of their own political colour. Therefore, since we're talking about a service that must serve those emergencies that have a vital nature in which any variation can suppose the death of a neighbour of the Navy, and since in many cases there is no second chance to save the lives of the neighbours and neighbors, rectify, Mr. Almuña. They amend the demands for emergency health transport, maintain the two medical technicians of the Foz medical ambulance, and also restore the service for twenty-four hours of emergency ambulance. Now tell us that the service, cutting off a professional, will improve. How will the quality of care improve in the area by cutting up a technician? According to you, a team of three people works better than one in four. You explain it to the 061 workers; you explain it to them that you don't want to receive them and that you communicate with them only through the press. So, will the German Government take some measures to correct the deficiencies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u341	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u342	...so how to carry out the necessary maintenance at the Foz health center?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u343	Thank you very much. The health counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u344	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. New spokesman for Health of the Socialist Party. Yes, because unfortunately, we see that in the electoral period there is variability within this. [[Murmurs.]] And especially because motions are used as bus motions, where they are later incorporating themes. [[Balbordo.]] Of course, I came to answer the motion, but I'm going to give general information about everything, because I think it's very important. If there's anyone who's always engaged in the Navy, it's the People's Party's Government, for a long time. And, of course, we have a magnificent health with excellent professionals and very well valued, in addition to all the neighbors. We made a bet for improving service in the Navy — all health services — by expanding and reforming their hospital. We are at this stage, with an investment of 10.8 million — when the same ones now protesting at political level said that this hospital was going to be closed — and about 2.5 million in equipment, because, far from closing — as I said — we are going to improve and expand services. We have expanded in recent years — since 2012 — the service portfolio of the Marine Hospital, increasing, for example, services such as Hado palliatives, with three teams and with coverage already of 100 percent of the population, or the oncohematological day hospital, which also allows to treat in Burela the oncologic patients who had previously to travel to Lugo or Coruña, starting in 2015 with a progressive increase of days of oncoholic care in this day hospital. We also launched the Oncology consultations; the Retina and Glaucoma Unit, which avoids displacements to Lugo to receive these treatments; a second endoscopy room; a Uterine Colo Pathology Unit in Xynecology, ostomy consultations or delivery preparation classes. To carry out this service we make improvements in installations worth EUR 1.3 million and, in equipment, more than 300 thousand. As far as the staff and activity of the Foz Health Center — which, in particular, seemed to be the center of the question, although there were soon deviations — we have eight family doctors and seven nursing graduates. The average card per optional is 1,019, that is, the lowest in Galicia, and Galicia is in the sixth place less than TIS per doctor. We have seven nursing people with a thousand three hundred TIS for each of them, a pediatrician with a thousand TIS — under the Spanish average as well — MIR, nurse assistants, dentist, physiotherapist, dental hygienist, four PSX and cello. By the way, the means of consultation of each of the professionals at the Foz Health Center is under twenty dates a day. So we're still working on improving marine services from primary care, hospital care, and also in emergencies, which I'm going to talk about in the second part of the question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u345	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the replica round, Mrs. Otero Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u346	Thank you, President. Counsellor, it'll seem like a bus question, but the truth is you took more than two minutes to talk about the Foz Health Center, which is what we were really asking you. But the question you asked him didn't answer, as we're used to, because he didn't tell us if they were going to do those maintenance and cleaning jobs at the Foz health center. [[Applause]] Mr. Almuña, the deplorable situation of the abandonment of the Foz Health Centre is an example of how Mr. Feijó's Galician Union has the health of the Navy: abandoned and discriminated against. They affect as soon as those improvements and maintenance work that the Galician Union has ordered. You come here and always talk about the same thing: the marine health area and that services have been created. The only thing that was done in that marine health area, cutting off that marine health area and turning it into a district, were works that didn't equip themselves with more staff. So with a lot of cement, but without personnel, public services don't work. They also lie about the topic of Foz's medical ambulance. I'm not saying that either the Socialist Group or the Health Emergency Technicians say it, that even today they've got a communiqué ensuring that the service won't improve. Now the 061 Power assures you that you can cover the Navy with the two medical helicopters, something that you know is completely false, since the Navy district is one of the few areas of Galicia that are outside the isochrons of these resources. Technicians ensure that the presence of helicopters in the Navy is witness; the 061 helicopters only fly when there are good visibility conditions, and that, at the top of the Fioco, we have it quite complicated. So, Mr. Almuña, correct and show your commitment to the Navy by providing you with good public services. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u347	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. You have the Government's reply, Mr. Health Counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuína.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u348	The truth is, I'm pretty much adjusting to what the question is, what happens is that the written question and the spoken question don't have much to do with it. And, of course, I'm here to talk about the health of the Marines area. I'm not here to talk about just a front of a health center. [[Murmurs.]] Look, as you know, the Marine Health Center building in Foz is exactly two parts: one is in 2003 and the other in 2008. And of course all the maintenance work has been done. The interior of the facilities presents a good state of conservation for the quality and behavior of the coatings and the performances performed since its in operation. In fact, there were works in 2017 on the facade and also in 2018 after the disposal of gas oil and natural gas. These are works that have been increasing. Logically, within the action plan for the year 2019, we will perform a series of actions in this and other health centres, as shown, in addition to the approach we have approved. The other day, I think the opposition groups were abstained; they don't seem to want us to make reforms and hire primary care personnel. But within that, we have a budget to be able to do. [[Murmurs.]] Obviously, they are not very important works because, as I say, the maintenance works that were done every year were more than enough. I mean, we're going to do water-cleaning actions with pressure on prefabricated concrete elements and also the protection treatments on transventilated wood elements that, logically — as I said — because it's close to the sea, they always need these types of action. So the claims he makes of the conditions of insanity and of the deplorable state that present the buildings of the center are, of course, lies; what you say is a lie. We'll keep working, as I say. They talk about ambulances: the truth is, it's funny that they say this type of data. And to say that helicopters in the Navy can't act... the truth is, I'm surprised that helicopters can't act, because there's even a basis, and not only for our own, but also for the marine rescue helicopter, which can have a perfect performance. Not for days, like anywhere else, but, of course, the Navy sky doesn't think it's impractical for helicopters. But in addition to that, we have five ambulances in the Navy region that have an average activity of four average transfers a day, and, as I say, we have a medicalized ambulance that was a pilot project for all of Galicia; there was it nowhere until now, that in the new contest will expand to the area of Monforte and the area of Vilagarcia, in Salnés. So the Navy is a pioneer and the Navy is doing a great job on inter-hospital transfers and also on the emergency at the right time. And by the way, he has a two-acting activity a day.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u349	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u350	We believe that in other health services, the technician, the doctor and the nurse are used.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u351	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u352	It works in Foz, it works in Salnes and it works in Monforte. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u353	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Da Eva Solla Fernández, G.P. of In Marea, on the measures planned to resolve the precarious situation in which the potential nursing staff in Sergas find themselves
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u354	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Solla Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u355	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. It says to the Staff Regulations of Staff in health services that potential staff are hired jointly or in an extraordinary way to meet service needs and that when more than two appointments are made within a 12-month period, the administration must study the causes of their production and therefore draw out the competition for these squares or create such squares. The reality of thousands of women and men — basically women — of potential nurses and nurses in our public health system is that they have been more than ten years old — twelve, thirteen, fourteen years old — concaterating contracts that, at most, reach as high as fifteen days. That situation is absolutely unbearable and incompatible with the minimum living conditions that are expected for anyone. In this situation are most of the more than eight thousand and seven hundred people we compete with or are going to come to this opposition next Sunday in the Silleda compound; nurses and nurses who will come in black — as I do today — protesting by the state of public health and, essentially, by the precarious situation of the nursing staff. It's absolutely impossible to have services within the Galego Health Service that only have a third of fixed staff. Not only does it affect your personal life but it also affects the quality of your service. In those conditions of absolute precariousness they have to live thousands of people in our country. Today we want to ask you: what are you going to do to solve this situation? Because look, Mr. Almuña: the last test we carried out was in 2016. That exam was the content of some squares that were decreed and whose offer came out in 2013; absolutely insufficient squares: only ninety-one left free turn. The next call was made in 2016, and this same weekend the exam is carried out; the announced squares are eight hundred thirty, but will be free for about seven hundred squares. And now you again announce a small number of squares this year 2019, taking advantage of each electoral process, using staff to make announcements at election time. The reality is that you can't be pulling out every two by three hundred, two hundred, three hundred, four hundred or five hundred squares when, when you make a transfer contest, you go out more than two thousand squares. We have an absolutely peremptory need to cover the staff of our Galician Health Service, and today we ask you, what are you going to do to prevent these people from having to be -- we need to be -- more than a decade with daily contracts? Going even to the bathroom and making your normal life with the phone in your hand, because if you don't take the phones, you're penalized...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u356	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u357	...and having to study each year for an opposition.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u358	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. The health counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u359	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. I want to say humbly — but I have to say this — that Galicia is the Autonomous Community that is most likely for nursing. The Health Council, through Strategy 2020, has always defended the role of our professionals, and for that we stand out as one of the fundamental axes — as I say — of this strategy the professionals committed and cared for by the organization, within which we have maintained the following lines of action: to look after the good professionals since they enter the organization, to enhance the versatility and versatility of the professionals of the system and to involve professionals as a basic criterion in the development and management of the organization. The stability of employment, both in this legislation and in the previous one, is characterized by the call for open public employment squares on an annual basis, exhausting the maximum rate of replacement, as you well know. In April 2017 we took an important step with the signing of the Employment Stability Plan and the provision of the Sergas 2017-2018 staff, in which we took on our commitment to reduce temporality in the Galician Health Service to reach what the Ministry of Farmed: reaching a five percent in Galicia, with an eight percent setting at the state level. We prioritized the categories belonging to the first level of care, as a family doctor, primary care pediatrician and specialist in family and community nursing. We must also point out that Galicia, in addition to exhausting one hundred and eight percent — as we now have at the Health Council — more than eight percent of other advisors who have handed over health to increase these squares, is the only Autonomous Community that has maintained the annual calls of OPE, which will allow, on the 2017-2020 horizon, that about five thousand people will enter a stable square. The average nursing board working in the Galego Health Service is eight thousand nine hundred people. Eighty-eight percent of this staff is stable — speaking of owners and temporary staff — so eleven percent corresponds to possible staff, necessary to cover absences of stable staff or to strengthen staff at times of greater assistance. Madam President, the regulations say when it is a structural place, not to cover low days or days of free will. During the 2013-2019 period, 1,337 nursing facilities were offered at OPE. On the other hand, we bet on community-based and pediatric nursing; in fact, we were pioneers in the creation of the category. We already have professional contracts at this time, and we include twenty-eight squares in the OPE. At the OPE whose examination is held — as the honourable Member has well said — on 12 May, eight hundred and thirty concrete steps are offered; it is also, anecdotally, the International Day of Nursing. The administration wants to continue the stabilization, which is why in March this year we approved a new offer of 300 two squares for nurses and nurses, ten for family and community nursing, twenty-seven in obstetrics-xinecologics and ten in pediatrics. We will continue to work, of course, for the stabilization and increase of staff in the service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u360	Thank you. Mrs. Solla Fernández has the floor for the replica round.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u361	I'd ask him not to be angry with the professionals anymore. There's two companions upstairs. They can't come anymore because, unfortunately, people have to study every year and try to make a life to be able... [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] But please! Have a little respect; there are people up there too. People have to be studying continuously in order to be able to present themselves for an exam to see if the eight thousand seven hundred people can access one of the seven hundred free turn squares. That's the reality we have in our country. And no, there's not 80 percent of regular professionals. According to Law 55/2003, the Staff Statutory Act: the interiors are temporary professionals. Once they take out the transfer contest every year, the interim can end in a few months, and you know it; therefore, do not deceive. And if not, why are they having to offer up to 200 euros to fixed professionals to cover OPE day? There's no staff or even to cover the minimums prescribed by law and usually on the day of the examination, and that's not the responsibility of the people who go to the exam. That's because you guys don't plan, and since there's almost personal done, you find that there are no people on the day of the exam to cover the minimum. They know — not just the honourable Members — that on Sunday there is not enough health workers; they do not cover the minimums in virtually any service, and that is their responsibility. So less self-comprehensive. On Sunday you even have a concentration convened in the fairground; people are very angry because they announce again places that are not enough. You can't spend twelve, thirteen or fourteen years in daily contracts; that's absolutely precarious and doesn't happen in the private company, Mr. Almuña. It's a shame! And that reality makes people unable to form families, ask for a loan, buy a house, go on a trip, plan their son's birthday, absolutely nothing, because they have to be on the phone the next day, so he said the bathroom's anecdotic. It's a reality; we live like this and that has to end, Mr. Almuño.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u362	Thank you very much. You have the word for the Government's reply to the Health Counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuína.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u363	As I say, I'm not going to play with feelings; I'm going to defend the profession, because I know it perfectly and I know, of course, that a magnificent job is done... [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga speaks words that are not perceived.]] Please remove what you just said. You're insulting me. [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga: No.]] You're insulting me this lady. [[A lady: What did she say?]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u364	I'm sorry. Excuse me, Counselor. I ask them to keep quiet. I didn't hear the insult, if I wasn't, logically, called it to order. So, please keep quiet, if you don't, I'll have to call the order, as much as you now look down and to the other side. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u365	When there are no arguments the insult comes. [[Applause]] Look: we keep working, because the situation in this country is because populist governments like the one in the honourable Member have led this country to an economic situation where contracts could not be contracted or could be made properly. At the moment, where we are from this autonomous community, as I said, with a strong bet to do so, we are not responsible for any other attitudes that have led us to a disastrous situation. We are now leaving, and — as I say — the Autonomous Community of Galicia is fulfilling its commitments and is doing so seriously, not inventing or saying words that cannot be fulfilled. We're going to say we've fulfilled those commitments not only with our professionals, but also with union representation. On 8 April and on Friday, May 3, two sectoral tables were held in which we agreed with the Galician Health Service on the increase — not the OPE on squares that existed, but the increase — or the creation of 300 new primary care squares with the aim of reducing the current ratios of patients by professionals. We agreed to provide in the period 2019-2021 a total of eighty family medicine squares, twenty pediatrics, four primary pharmacy, one hundred thirty nursing, forty physiotherapy, twenty midwives and fourteen social workers. Our firm commitment to improving health care is also reflected in the new care model of the earth's urgent health transport network of the Galician Public Health Emergency Foundation, which will incorporate twelve more, twenty-four nurses and nurses more and more than a hundred technicians about what was at the moment. The current ratio in Galicia is four nurses per thousand inhabitants; the figure is better than the average of the National Health System, which has an average ratio of 3.6, or autonomous communities such as Andalusia, with a ratio of 2.77, or the Valencian Community, with a ratio of 3.23. So, despite the limitations of the repositioning rates imposed by the state basic legislation -- by the way, if there's going to be a mixed government of the Socialist Party and Podemos in Spain, which eliminate the repositioning rate for specialities such as what we need right now, and I'm sure that we will also improve a lot -- we continue to work to generate a more stable framework for our professionals and to reduce their temporality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u366	Thank you very much, Counselor. We move on to the next cumulative debate on questions 6.9 and 6.10. They are piled up for the purposes of the debate. Question by D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the forecasts of the Government of Greece regarding the expansion of disability assessment teams in the northern part of the province of Pontevedra and in the rest of the areas Question by Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and two other Members of the G.P. of En Marea, on the assessment of the Government of Greece regarding the waiting lists in the province of Pontevedra for the assessment of the degree of disability
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u367	To put the question you have, first, the word Mr Bará Torres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u368	Good afternoon, Counselor. We've come here to tell you about a drama, about a desperate situation that thousands of people are living throughout Galicia because of the situation in which the staff and the disability assessment teams are in, a situation of real chaos and collapse that is particularly serious in the case of the northern part of Pontevedra province. I suppose you know the situation, but I'm going to give you the figures, which do not lie: there are four thousand fifty-sixty people on a waiting list in the northern part of Pontevedra province; more than nine hundred people have been waiting for more than two years and, of these nine hundred people, five hundred have not yet been quoted; all applications that have entered since December last year have not been processed -- we are talking about more than two thousand people, Counsellor, and in 2008, two hundred sixty-three people have died in the northern part of Pontevedra without solving their assessment request. This situation is dramatic. It can't be called otherwise. Behind these figures there are people, there are lives, and there are real human dramas: octogenarian people who have serious mobility problems; people with Alzheimer's and dementia; people like Roberto, who died in January this year with seventy-seven years of terminal illness, waiting for the recognition of disability; or like a seven-month-old Sanxenxo baby with Down syndrome, who has been waiting for evaluation for seven months. As a result, in addition to automation, appointments that should be priority and urgent are being delayed. And besides these dramas there are also people who have to care for people who have these disabilities, and who are, in most cases — as we know — women. Look, Counsellor, this situation can be solved, you can cut short; it's a matter of political will, of means and budgets that you don't put. It's about permanent solutions, not patches, as they've been doing in recent years with the reinforcement teams, which is shown not to solve the underlying problem. I know you're going to tell us here that they're going to hire reinforcement equipment, but it's proven that they don't solve the problem. Here's a representation of the medical staff, the psychological and social staff and the administrative staff working on Pontevedra's disability assessment teams, who are the first victims, because they are people who are delivered and committed to their work who have to endure this situation of chaos and collapse. These people want answers, they want solutions, they want firm commitments, not words that take the wind. Do you want me to answer a very specific question: will you hire permanent and stable disability assessment teams to solve this serious situation?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u369	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. You have the turn for the question now Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u370	Good afternoon. Well, as the spokesman for the Galician Nationalist Block said, today we've come to ask you about a situation that is very serious, that doesn't allow any longer delay or will admit answers, as always, vaguely and that they don't solve the structural problem that is so important to us today. We're talking about people dying waiting for disability assessment; we're talking about three-year waiting lists in some cases, without counseling taking action. We must begin by telling him that we regret that we have to bring this question back to this parliament. We have discussed in this parliament several times on this issue, and they have consistently voted against the opposition proposals in which we call for the increase of these teams of assessment and guidance on disability, without giving any reason. The only arguments they always used were that they would look for other measures. The result of these debates was that, later on, it was seen how measures were always totally partial and totally insufficient. The situation in Galicia is particularly worrisome, but undoubtedly it is very significant the situation in the northern part of Pontevedra: three years to wait for an assessment. At this point, after hiring for these task accumulations, the waiting lists are two years old, but unfortunately, it predicts that when you finish these tasks accumulations, the waiting list will again be increased. The source is always — as we have been repeating for a long time — in the lack of sufficient staff. The measures to be taken are structural, they're basically more personal, but permanently. And -- as I said before -- it's not a novelty; we've long demanded that they take action immediately, and not just say it here, tell them the workers and the workers who have been claiming this matter for so long. We continue, today, to have lists of waiting that are unacceptable. They are not worth the answers — as I say — vague; they have to have firm commitments. Are you going to hire more permanent rating teams or what are you going to do? Again, patches will be put that do not respond to the background problem. We have to tell you that behind these waiting lists, behind the numbers, there are people who have been waiting for many years and are totally abandoned by the administration. They're not numbers, they're people with names and names. They're also caregivers who have to assume what the administration doesn't do, the work that would correspond to the administration, and who won't carry on with their patches, which are totally insufficient. They take many years of joint attacks on public services; that's just one more example. That is why we want to insist, and the question is very clear: what measures will be taken to reduce these waiting lists that are totally unacceptable?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u371	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quinteiro. Mrs. García Martínez has the floor of the Social Policy Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u372	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Quinteiro. Mr. Bará. Good afternoon to all. I'd like to start by thanking the Galego Nationalist Block that in the question you've recorded you recognize the great advances that have been made in the measures implemented last year to speed up the deadlines for the evaluation of disability, solve more than 30,000 assessment files and reduce the waiting list by thirty percent. You need to take this data into account in order to fully zoom in on the situation you are asking about. Among the improvements introduced last year to speed up disability assessments were the hiring of fourteen disability assessment teams and, of course, other advances that are needed today: the improvement of the appointment management system, which allows it to be the citizen himself who chooses the date and time for their face-to-face evaluation; also the notification and confirmation of the quote via SMS so that people don't forget about the day and time of the appointment; the reduction of the request model, which has shifted from a four-sheet to a single sheet; the implementation of the single social history in most of Galicia councils, and the priority for people with disabilities to affect their vital prognosis — such as, for example, the ELA — to be evaluated within a month and for people who need to enter into time for public assistance, cases where there are records that are being resolved in less than 90 days. [[Mrs. García Martínez shows you a document to the members of the House.]] The fourteen disability enhancement teams that we introduced last year have been working as hard as possible for the Public Employment Act: nine months. This deadline has expired, but the Social Policy Council is already working to incorporate not fourteen, but sixteen new disability assessment teams over the next few weeks. Of these sixteen teams, six teams are already operating in the Coruña and Santiago area, and soon the eight new EVOs will also be incorporated into the province of Pontevedra: four in the city of Lérez and four in Vigo. But we know and we are aware that the situation is not idyllic. I can assure you that we would like the Greeks and the Greeks to wait much less to be valued. That is why we are taking steps to act and to reduce the deadlines as far as possible. And, of course, disability assessment teams know perfectly well that they have our support, our recognition and also our gratitude, because we know they have a very important workload. That's exactly why we're introducing improvements that facilitate your work on a daily basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u373	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply you have the word, first of all, Mr Bará Torres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u374	Look, Counsellor, tell you here that evaluation teams have all their support, recognition and gratitude. They don't want their support, their gratitude and their gratitude; what they want are more means and what they want are more equipment, and that's why they've been mobilized for weeks. By the way, with the support of the disability groups, who are demanding you to create more permanent equipment; not patches, not partial solutions, because it's shown to be useless, because waiting lists are there. [[Applause]] I told him there were two thousand people who have filed their application since December who are even unprocessed and that there have been people who have been waiting for the summons for more than three years. They're going to create teams that are temporary teams and that don't even have pre-training and pre-training, and so they're going to waste a lot of time getting up to date, getting ready and training. You act here like a robot: come with the automatic response, with the autopilot, give the play and don't care what we ask. I asked you a very specific question that only requires an answer from yourself or not, Counselor: will they create stable, permanent equipment? No six-month temporary solutions extendable to nine months; permanent, non-temporary solutions. Are they going to extend the templates permanently? Because there's a horrendous social demand and there's a desperate situation of thousands of families claiming that. It is a matter of political will and it is a matter of budgets. Are they going to put the media on? Are the budgets going to be put? Answer this question, it's an easy question. Tell me if they're gonna do it or not. Say yes or no. [[A honourable Member: Yes!]] They're not going to do it, because what you told me here is they're going to create temporary and non-permanent equipment; they're not going to expand the staff frame. Look: this answer is not worth us, it's not worth the staff that's here, and it's not worth it, above all, to people who suffer this situation every day. You act with absolute coldness, with absolute lack of humanity, without soul, without heart and without compassion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u375	Thank you very much, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u376	Of course, we won't let him.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u377	Thank you very much, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u378	I want you to tell me yes or no to the specific question I asked you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u379	Thank you very much. It's over. In this case, Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo has the floor for the replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u380	His answer was an insult to all the people who died waiting for an assessment, it was an insult to all families who had to wait more than two years for an appointment and it is an insult also to all the workers who — as they were told — do not want recognition and support with speeches, want means and resources. More means and more personnel are being demanded. And the question is very clear and the answer was again with evasives. They're going to hire eight new teams, you don't know for how long, how, absolutely nothing else. I don't understand why you don't want to permanently hire disability assessment teams. What's the reason? The only possible reason is political will. They have no political will to defend the people and families of this country, they have no political will to defend the people who suffer the most in our country. Your answer — as I say — is an insult, because you can say here that you care a lot, but every day, when we have these waiting lists for more than two years, your concern is not shown; on the contrary, rather. And it seems that until the workers and the workers are planted, the situation in which they live is not visible. They don't just do it to work with more means and resources; they do it for all families and for all the people who have to wait so long, because they worry about those people, they worry a lot more about the people in our country than you do, who are making it very clear that it's not at all a political priority and it's not at all a matter of concern to the Government of the United States of Galicia. Until they left the street, until they mobilized, you didn't take any measure, and as always, the measures they take are totally insufficient. They are partial measures and they are measures that will not solve the underlying problem we have with the disability assessment teams. We are in a country where disability is obviously great, where we have a very old population. We asked ourselves: How many months from now are we going to have to bring this question back to this parliament? How long are we going to have to re-exist...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u381	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u382	...that they hire more staff permanently?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u383	Thank you very much. Time's up. For the Government's reply, the Social Policy Counsellor, Mrs. García Martínez, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u384	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Members and Members. Mr Bará, of course I will answer you. I reply to your question, which I remind you, has the Government planned to extend the disability assessment equipment in the northern part of the province of Pontevedra and in the rest of the areas? My answer and the Government's answer is yes, sixteen new teams, two teams more than last year. [[Applause]] From the Galician Union we are fully aware that there is still work to be done, but the data tells us that we are also on the right track. A good example of this progress has been achieved thanks to the new dating management model — as I spoke to them in my first intervention — which, of course, thanks to the approaches of the disability assessment teams, we are still perfecting. But this new dating management model has made it possible to significantly reduce the cancellation of appointments, because the number of cancelled appointments has risen from almost 40 percent with the previous model to one percent today. The number of daily evaluations carried out by EVO professionals doubled in March of the same year. I can assure you that in the Social Policy Council we have very much in mind the situation of disability assessment teams and we also have very much in mind the people with disabilities who are pending to be evaluated. So in 2018 we launched fourteen teams and this year 2019 we will launch sixteen teams. And so I assure you that we will try to keep this reinforcement going on in time as well. Ladies and gentlemen, with an overview of the data, you can't doubt that attention to disability is a priority for the German Government. A commitment that has been translated into the more than five thousand four hundred public disability care squares, about twenty-five percent more since 2009. A commitment that has also occurred with the increase of fifteen percent of the bookkeeping of personal assistants who receive people with disabilities. A commitment that resulted in an increase of 60 percent of the budget for disability and invested in disability, which amounts to one hundred and six million euros. A commitment that will also be translated into greater flexibility in the process of assessing disability, in more support and in greater understanding for all professionals who perform this magnificent work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-05-08-DSPG115.u385	Thank you very much, Counselor. Finished the agenda, finished the session.
