ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of Parliament on January 24, 2019, so we do not proceed to its reading. No inassistances have been justified. We're already on the agenda with point one, which is legislative texts. Debate taken into consideration the Proposal for a Law for its elevation to the Congress of Deputies, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, to ensure that electrical production fulfils a social role in economic development and the creation of employment and wealth in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u2	For the presentation of the bill, you have the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, its spokesperson, Ms Anne Belén Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u3	Good day to all and all. Let me begin by greeting the people who are following this debate today, the Secretary General of the IGC and also the representatives of the workers and workers of Alcohol, Meirama and Ferroatlantics, who come to this debate because we are precisely talking about a topic, such as the regulation of electricity in our country, which is fundamental for many of these jobs to have a future, but also essential for a country like Galicia to develop and use its wealth for its own benefit. And the truth is, ladies and gentlemen, we started this 2019 with very bad news for our country. We have nothing but 2,000 jobs at risk in the industrial sector in the Coruña area alone, and that's all after the year 2018 ended with a job destruction in the industrial sector in Galicia of 8,500 jobs. I repeat, ladies and gentlemen, by clicking on the button, you are not aware that today we are talking about a proposal that comes up with solutions at a time when Galicia is in a situation of concern from an industrial point of view, with 2,000 jobs at risk only in the Coruña area and after losing 8,500 jobs in Galicia last year in the industrial sector. This is the result that we are left with the policies of the Galician Union. We're talking about losing, we're risking 80 jobs in a company like Isowat. [[Applause]] We're talking about Naturgy, which, after being done with all the capital and all the production of the old Fenosa, which announces us is the closure of Meirama, the destruction of 200 direct jobs and the destruction of capacity in a strategic sector like that of electricity for Galicia. I would like to remind you — perhaps today too, you will be able to clarify the advisor later — that this same company, before an election campaign, had compromised Mr Feijóo who was going to make investments guaranteeing the future of Meirama beyond 2020, and we also see what is the result of the promises of the People's Party, which we have on the table is the closure of that central one. A company from which, by the way, after seeing how it has multi-millionaire benefits and after it contaminates our country, the Government is not even capable of making the investments necessary to guarantee employment. And we're also talking about worry about what's going on in Ferroatlantica, where we see Villar Mir again -- acting I think opportunisticly -- looking for excuses to reduce employment. Two ovens have already been stopped, the ovens 13 and 14 on their Brens plant, and while the board is silent, we also see with concern how the job is already being destroyed, 30 jobs have already been lost between the assistants and the eventual ones, and there is concern between the staff for the possibility of an ERE. Galicia has already stopped her feet at Villar Mir, the Meirama workers have stopped her feet at Villar Mir, and of course we will not allow her to come by trying to take advantage of this situation now to put employment in Ferroatlantics at risk. [[Applause]] And -- like not! -- today we're actually also talking about Alcoa, with 400 direct jobs, only 400 direct jobs at stake in the Coruña, 400 jobs that hang a thread in a sector that is strategic for our country, such as aluminium production. And it's obvious that what Alcoa is trying to do is to delocalize it, because we're in front of a profit company and a sector, like that of aluminum, that's on the rise. The sector's own data says that for next year there's going to be a production deficit, and where we also see that Galicia doesn't produce even the aluminum it consumes, we're importing more and more aluminum. We therefore understand that, of course, courageous proposals are needed. We see with concern how the Union and the Central Government were not brave at the moment, they didn't wager for the nationalization of this factory, at least in the face of a buyer who had guaranteed viability, and now what we have is a limited situation, from behind, where either a buyer appears or the future of these factories in the Coruña and Avilés is at risk. But apart from having a buyer, we all know that to give Alcoa future, but also to all the electro-intensive companies in our country, we have to change the electric model, an electric model of which the People's Party is responsible, which has changed the system that was and has put in place a system of interruption, which we are seeing not only not only has the capacity to set in motion and to guarantee our employment, but is one of the problems that our country currently has. And since BNG we have made it very clear that this is a relevant debate, which either changes the current regulatory framework of the electricity sector or the consequences for our country will be dramatic, dramatic in terms of gross domestic product, but also dramatic in terms of employment, because we are now seeing the problems that create us. That's why we have to make it clear that we have to bet on a new clear and stable energy framework, which allows our companies to be able to compete and bet that a basic principle is applied in any democratic country, and that it is that the Greeks and the Greeks, who live on a land that produces electricity, that we are net exporters of electricity, we have compensation and benefits for that productive specialisation, because we believe that the electricity generated here does not have to be used to make more and more money for electricity, but rather it has to be used to develop the country economically and create quality jobs, to end the energy poverty that still exists in Galicia and to put in place a new energy framework that actually has to bet on sustainability, energy efficiency and also self-consumption. These are basic principles that guide the proposal that we bring here the debate on this Parliament, a proposal in which we want to propose to the State a new energy relationship between Galicia and the State, which recognises the right we have to benefit from electricity production through a Greek electric tariff, with a stable framework also for electrointensive companies, and with a new regulation of electricity taxes, for example from the VAT, because it does not seem normal for us to pay VAT as if it were a luxury product, 21%, when we all know that it is a basic first-needed asset. So this is a proposal that you're looking to give future to electro-intensive companies, such as Ferro-Atlantics or Alcoa, but that there's a lot more in our country, and of course a way of saying "no" to something that seems unworthy to us, and that in a country like Galicia, where we produce electricity from the cliff, we can't have a single job at risk for the price of electricity. This is also a perfectly legal proposal. It's perfectly legal to have a Greek electric tariff and a new milestone for the electro-intensive industries. But it's not that it's only legal right right now, it's that it's a fair and solidarity proposal, because we understand that we have to end up with a centralist model that is causing energy poverty, policy on our wealth and job destruction, that it's fair that we advocate compensation to Galicia for being net electricity producers, and that it's fair that we demand from this Parliament that we lower the EVI from 21% to 4%, because that would mean a very important relief, not only for family economies, but also for many small and medium-sized enterprises, where electricity costs are one of the most important elements of their competitiveness. So we understand that this is a key proposal right now, in which we are at risk for a lot of jobs in our country, and of course where not only the workers themselves, but the electro-intensive industries themselves, are demanding a new energy frame and betting on a Greek electric tariff. We would like to explain a little more in detail the development we make in this proposal of a stable tariff for the electro-intensive industries that also have compensation in Galicia, because of our character as exporting territory. Of course, it must be acknowledged — and I think it would be important — that the change of that tariff that disappears in 2003, from G4 to the system of interruption, we are seeing that it was perverse and negative for the economic development of our country. And we said this for a number of reasons. First, because this system is creating instability, because it is calling into question a quiet horizon for companies to make medium-term investments in modernising these industries. Also because we see how this system introduces unfair competition between companies in the same sector, because it allows them to have different prices in such a sensitive element for these companies as the price of electricity. And we see that, in addition, it is the excuse for other companies to take on perverse uses, such as justifying productivity losses based on the price of electricity, and thus allowing certain companies to make redundancies. It's a model that doesn't work and a model that drinks from that neoliberal logic that considers energy to be another good of consumption and not a basic good. That's why we say we need to change the consideration of energy, consider it a social asset, and also put in place a new model that is stable, through a specific tariff for the electro-intensive industries, and that in Galicia's case it also has compensation for reductions in the fees they pay, for that condition of Galicia as surplus. We understand from the outset that this tariff must be put in place by changing or releasing these companies from paying fees that do not directly relate to the functioning of the electricity system, such as renewables premiums, extrapensular costs, capacity payments or the second part of the nuclear fuel cycle and tariff deficit. We also need to be clear about who has to assume the cost of releasing these fees, and we say it with absolute roundness: that release of fees for electrointensives cannot be the cost of consumers, who already have a very large burden on their bills; this has to be assumed by the State through general budgets, as is done, by the way, in other parts or other countries around us. But we also understand that this discount cannot be a blank check for these industries, as it is currently being allowed. We have to demand social compensation from industries for this tariff compensation, and these compensations are guarantees of investment, guarantees of increasing employment and also of the quality of that employment for workers, who are entitled to decent wages and one respect for their working conditions. So this is a proposal that puts on the table a viable and real solution, which we have to put before the state from now on, because Galicia can't wait any longer, and the workers and workers of the electro-intensive companies can't possibly see how they play with their future and where there just seems to be paripé postures, but it wasn't brave enough to carry forward proposals that are beneficial to the whole of our country. As I told you, this is not the only proposal we put forward in this law. We planted a general reduction in the rates we paid in Galicia small, medium and large consumers, a 30% reduction of those to compensate for families. We think this is a fair issue, which fights energy poverty, also that will support our country's small and medium-sized enterprises and therefore is a measure that only benefits our country. It is clear that at this time in the Spanish State there are already differentiated tariffs. As far as the People's Party is concerned, everyone knows that there is the Euskopexia, where basically the Basque companies benefit, which has negotiated the PNV, that rate that you have negotiated with the Government of the People's Party in the State and that at this time it is a reduction of 50 million euros for your companies. Why are you defending a fee for Euskadi and not a rate for Galicia? It would be nice if the People's Party had ever answered this question. Perhaps at this point when you no longer feel bound by Mr. Mariano Rajoy's Government, we see that there are better expectations to defend Galician interests. If they do, welcome. [[Applause]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is a bill that seeks to articulate a country's position on a key subject. There are hundreds, thousands of jobs at risk for the price of energy in a country where we are big electricity producers. We need to get rid of this cop, with this nonsense, and this proposal is a step forward for Galicia to have what she needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. At the last plenary session in December, the day — I think I remember — 22 I had an adventure that some litany would disappear in the political circumstances of the Spanish State, that of the loss coalition and that of the one that governs the most voted list, and indeed I did agree; there was no further talk about it on the part of the media or the parties on the right. I've come to something else, and the truth is, in this case, I'm quite proud that Mr. Married would listen to me. [[Applause]] I've been here for some time, with little success, telling him not to be shy, who really contains what they want to do, the country they want to build and the society they want to shape. The truth is, you were shy. As bad as Mr. Married came, "no complexes," and he's telling us, indeed, what they want to do. We certainly know what they want to do in terms of morality and in terms of the articulation of society; in economic terms — I suppose because interests are a little above those of the flesh, the economics, I mean — are a little more prudent — some people. The other day, the candidate of the People's Party in the Community of Madrid, Mrs. Isabel Díaz Ayuso, in an interview with the newspaper El Mundo, little suspect of -- say -- systematic confrontation with the right, said textually: Vox does not propose anything that I have not seen before within the People's Party. I insist: Abel Losada didn't say so, he said his candidate to the Autonomous Community of Madrid. Therefore, in this context of fake news — or we call it as we wish — this is what really develops the theme of this country's energy policy. In this country there has been a difficult thing to explain in political terms but very easy to explain in economic terms, and it is that, from the 2008 crisis — and I repeat it again: I say 2008 to make it clear that I am not talking exclusively about Mr Rajoy's Government and then I am not told that, indeed, I distort the data, or lack of rigour, as the Economic and Industry Councillor usually says — in this crisis something strange happened, which was that with a demand for energy at low or stagnant prices were systematically placed at high and therefore the business benefits were at high. What does that mean? Well, it means there were market regulation problems. This is a regulated market and means that there were regulatory problems; a regulation made at a time of economic upturn, actually made from about 2002 onwards, with which the Government of Aznar also overlaps with the Government of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, at a time when, indeed, the types of interest were almost zero and therefore the propensity to invest was very high. Unfortunately, with the arrival of the crisis, which at that time ruled in Spain, the Socialist Party, it was unable to reverse this regulation to adapt it to that situation. But it is also true that this lack of action at that time meant two things: it meant, indeed, an increase in debt — it is true — but it also meant positioning Spain in leadership in innovation and research in renewable energies and, of course, with multiplier effects and internationalization of enormously important Spanish electricity companies. Of course, indeed, the debt was there. I would like to say that especially the Members of the People's Party, who always talk about this tariff deficit, compared this energy bubble with the real estate bubble, which does have a clear source, which is the People's Party, and which, of course, had a much higher cost than the tariff deficit, which was the bank rescue, did not mean any frontier, no technological advance, and, of course, did not immediately position Spanish companies in terms of the world's productive economy. It seems to me very well that the Bank of Santander and the BBVA... the BBVA with some logistical problem; the truth is that I also spoke sometimes with little sympathy of Mr. Francisco González; I assure you that he had no filtrations from Mr. Villarejo, none, but the truth is that, actually, put by Aznar to control a privatized bank, he came out what he had to come out, what he had to go out. Well, in this context, indeed, this energy in this last economic crisis on the part of the People's Party — and now I am going to talk about the People's Party — I have four questions which are indisputable; I say that they are indisputable because they are empirically and therefore unquestionable to me. First, the brake on renewables and energy efficiency policies as state policy. The second, the impulse to coal, gas and nuclear; we can talk, if you want, of the agreement reached yesterday by the current government in relation to the absolute inaction of the seven years of government Rajoy. Third, all regulatory power in the hands of power companies. And fourth, although this was partially modified once Mr Cañete became a European Commissioner, the denial of the CO2 problem in energy and economic policy. And this, which is an objective fact, has legal support: the Royal Decree of Renewable Moratorium, which is costing us billions of euros in compensation and which will cost us more — I hope not — but it will cost us more than the tariff deficit; Law 3/2013, which abolished independent competition regulators, precisely to let these oligopolitic companies control the market altogether; and laws 24/2013, of the electricity sector, and 18/2014, of urgent measures of growth and competitiveness. With this first ideological frame and then legal, there were objective consequences for energy policy and energy in Spain. Spain reached the highest electricity prices in non-insular territories of the European Union in 2017 and 2018. It leads to the highest fossil fuel dependency in the European Union, with a difference of 25 points, 98% versus 73% on average. It leads to legal insecurity, with resources worth 1,500 million euros. Energy poverty is around 4.6 million people, because while household income has dropped by 5% on average, energy has risen by 46%, gas by 31%, and gasoline by 39%. Yes, Spain leads the profitability of big power dividends. And this is the framework inherited by the current Government. And the current Government — and here, Mrs Pontón, indeed, the Socialist Group could coincide with many of the issues that appear in the proposed law of the Nationalist Block of Wales — has expressed a clear line of action, with four fundamental objectives in terms of sustainability and solidarity and, of course, with two fundamental objectives in terms of the functioning of the market. First, the cost of electricity, the protection of vulnerable consumers, the drive for self-consumption and, of course, facilitate the European Union's implementation of renewable energy targets. And, in market terms, two issues that are absolutely common sense. On the one hand, a price stability that makes it easier — let's say — to trust and ease itself — to compensate investors and, on the other hand, to avoid excessive pay in energy production. And I insist: yesterday we had a clear example with that pact. It was the first time, since 2010, that they met, with light and tachographs, in public, the Ministry of Energy Competences with the three major energy companies in this country. It would be very interesting if the People's Party had explained why Mr. Soria and Mr. Nadal had met in a vis-à-vis — which seemed rather a prison issue — with the companies. If you want, I'll explain it to you, but I don't think it's necessary. So the first one. And the first time there's a nuclear closure agreement. It may seem to us that it is too late, it may seem to us that it would have to be longer, but it is the first nuclear closure agreement. [[Applause]] And indeed, the Government has brought forward a real decree on five points: energy poverty and vulnerable consumers — we have talked about a lot in this Parliament — greater consumer protection — we have talked about this and we will talk about it on an initiative by En Marea, the question of self-consumption, the promotion of renewables and the issue of taxation in the field of the sustainability of the system. This royal decree, validated in the Congress of Deputies, has also been transferred to a budgetary pact of the Government party, of Mr Sánchez, with other groups of the Congress of Deputies, with a series of points that actually take some of the points that you collect in your bill and do not collect others, some that we do not share. And they collect the draft law on climate change and energy transition, the integrated national plan of energy and climate, the very validation of the real decree of what I was talking about before, structural reforms especially in the time of completion...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u7	...—endorsed, Mr President—with the over-remunerations of certain technologies, to review the payment by capacity and status of electrointensive companies, and an explicit national strategy with budgets against energy poverty. At this last point alone, an immediate allocation of EUR 50 million would mean EUR 2.5 million for Galicia. I would like to remind you that in the budgets of the Board for this problem the total game is EUR 1.3 million; I say that to locate ourselves — let us say — in an appropriate way. Mrs Pontón, you certainly know that, even if this bill had been passed in this Parliament, the parliamentary dynamics in Madrid would lead to the next legislation, and many of the real problems that you have talked about here are unfortunately short-term problems. Then there are also questions of course where the Socialist Party does not agree. We didn't agree on the Welsh electric fare; we voted for it here too; or we call it, well...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u9	...now they have corrected the question a little terminologically. And there are other topics where we have also disagreed. I would ask, as I once asked BNG, patience, patience and a little... after the seven-year-old Government desert on the right...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u10	Thank you, Mr. Losada, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u11	...to give the Government of the left in Madrid a minimum possibility of developing its energy policy. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u12	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u13	Good morning to all and to all. A greeting to the members of the business committees who visit us today. As it could not be otherwise, En Marea considers it essential to transform the rules of the electricity system established in the Spanish State. And during the course of the legislation, we present countless initiatives in this sense. That is why we can no longer agree that this matter is being dealt with in the Galician Parliament, even though the fundamental powers are state. And that is why we will vote in favour of taking into account the proposed law of the BNG. This does not mean that we agree with a proposal that seems to us to be a reductionist and absolutely insufficient to deal with perhaps the biggest scam that has been taking place in the Spanish State — and therefore in Galicia — for decades, with unjustified costs, for households and businesses, of billions of euros each year that end up in the pockets of the shareholders of the electric oligopolie with purchasing over the last decades and with their active collaboration of the successive governments of the People's Party and the Socialist Party. This leads to insumable energy poverty data and a lack of business competitiveness. In short, a massive robbery throughout citizenship, whether in their homes or in their businesses. The spokesperson for the Galego Nationalist Block focused mainly on the electro-intensive industries, but it is clear that the problem of electro-intensive industries is a problem that is simply a symptom of the general problems that the entire Spanish electricity sector has to regulate. So, of course, in the short term — as the Socialist Party spokesperson also said — we must intervene, with compensation for indirect costs, for CO2 emission costs, and, as in Germany, Norway, France and other countries, we must also compensate for indirect costs for the development of renewable energy. All these are issues that need to be addressed within five months, to give a solution to all companies. But in view of the fact that the Galego Nationalist Block proposal is theoretically much quieter, as it is a proposal for reform, renewal, of the electricity system in Spain, we — in addition to that we have already presented in this Parliament many times, to try to solve the problems of the short-term electrointensive industries — are going to focus more — let us say — on what theoretically should be the main objective of this bill, which is the renewal, modification, of all the regulations of the electricity sector and of the electricity system in Spain. As we all know, the costs that are passed on, both to domestic subscribers and businesses, have three fundamental parts. And we have to act in the three games, which are elements that we miss within the proposal. Then, of course, we would consider amendments if their consideration had been approved. About 40%, they're called "peas". And I say "called beaches" because the real beaches are the ones BNG says they could be modified. But it turns out that those real beaches are at least 40% of that. In particular, they are transport, distribution, losses for transport and distribution, system management or marketing margin. I'm the least part. The reality is the inventions that successive governments have been reflecting in the Official State Bulletin as a true multimillionaire gift to oligopolie companies. And then I'll tell you how we would act within most of that 40%. A 35% goes for production costs, with a marginalist daily price fixing system that allows mass speculation and does not reflect, at least, the actual production costs with reasonable business benefits. And finally, as has been said many times, an absolutely irrational taxation for a first-necessary asset for households and an input of decisive production costs for companies. It can't be that the electricity tax in Spain, adding the special taxes and the VAT, is 25%. This is a fair pursuit that leads families to energy poverty and businesses to a lack of competitiveness. As we shall see, here are many elements to act on. Fundamentally — I say — 40% of the so-called tariffs, 35% of production costs, and, of course, in a totally political decision, in taxation. That is why In tide it takes from the beginning of the legislation by presenting initiatives, both in Parliament and in Congress, to act on these three axes that mark the Spanish electric system. Because the important thing, according to our approach, is that you lower the real rate, and as soon as possible, not the name you put to it. So, I'm going a lot further, and as the beginning of what we would think, in a very short way, in the processing of the law, there's a fundamental element for lowering the price of production, which is to exclude the wind, hydraulic and nuclear production from the day-to-day pockets. I know I repeat it a thousand times, but I repeat it a thousand times because it's absolute evidence. No one can prove that keeping them could solve the problem. The only way is to get them out, allow and encourage long-term sales. This is what makes Alcoa in Norway very profitable. Why? Because they sell electricity at stable prices at five years, out of auctions, and also allowing bilateral physical recruitment. That is, four wind farms hire directly with a company, and they do their numbers and say, Look, with these incomes I'm amortized, I have income guarantee, I have customer guarantee, I can hire them for five years at a stable price. This way Alcoa in Norway has an almost four-fold lower price than Alcoa has in Spain. After that, eliminate the obligation of marketers to participate in the daily market to receive virtually all the energy of their customers, considering, as I said earlier, long-term recruitment. This is a decisive issue. It would be as much as the tariff was Greek, whether Spanish or European. If the capital is not clearly separated from the structure of production, distribution and marketing activities, there is no way to reduce energy prices. Why? Because if those who sell and buy are the same, how will you regulate them? Among them, if it is necessary to lose the distribution, you pass pasta to production; if it is good that you earn production but lose marketing, you spend money from here to there in the excellent leaf. Because they're actually the same companies. Then there is a fundamental theme for the development of self-consumption — which is a topic that is virtually not discussed in the current proposal of BNG — which is the taking control of the management of the distribution network by the state, as is done with transport. So it's not expropriating, it's having a control stake, which could be 10% or 20%. But this will actually enable us to control the networks, actually put into practice those closed distribution circuits, which were approved last month. And above all, to do a real cost audit, because the distribution costs Alcoa, it costs Ferroatlantics, it costs each of us, our homes, 7 billion euros a year. And we estimate that this is overvalued at least 40%. Then, centralize into the system operator the entire hydraulic pumping operation to avoid speculations that occur in a constant manner, as verified and is, in addition, in a 2016 end sentence, which at the water speculating base, resulted in the primary price of electricity rising by 40% at the end of December 2016 and early January 2017. Of course, it is the promotion — very important — of self-production and self-consumption, which in Galicia could have a great development, not only of solar and wind but also of the massive use of mini and microhydraulic, and geothermal, if it could give electricity to virtually all rural areas, especially mountain areas. Very important increase in thrusts and power concessions to install renewable production: these concessions would lead to implicit social and economic returns in the areas in which they are installed. From here they could come money to improve the competitiveness of businesses in Galicia. Then, as already noted, fund premiums for the development of renewable energies, and other charges not directly attributable to the system, with general state budgets and not charging them to the electrical system. And then the return of the massive scams we've been putting up with, essentially, the incentives for the theoretical costs of transition to competition, which cost us 3,500 million euros, and a comprehensive audit of the also called "tariff deficit." What a deficit! When someone has a deficit, he loses money. The electricians were getting more and more and said they were selling under the cost price. That's a little hard to justify. 30 billion euros they took! Well, you have to ask for a thorough audit of that tariff deficit, and the electricity goes back to the electrical system that's 30 billion. We must, of course, change the record of the electricity tax, which had been progressive and had not been applied to intensive companies; and the fall of the VAT, as I said. And finally — and all this is a very short summary — what is the solution to all this? For the real solution is that electricity companies are truly independent. And an essential measure that would make all the previous changes possible is the total ban on turning doors. It can't be that the Spanish electric system, an essential system for the economic and social development of this country, is involved in more than forty-four political positions. That's why In Marea has already introduced to Congress and here has introduced that no person with political responsibilities related to regulated sectors may be in the board of directors for ten years. This is an absolutely essential matter so that I can really start changing this system. As I say, we will support the consideration of the bill, and during the debate we will extend much more everything we present, which we think would indeed bring down the electricity tariff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u14	Thank you, Mr. Casal. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u15	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Last season, chapter 900, of the series "Tarifa galega", by producer Bloc Nationalista Galego. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, jokes aside, less than a year ago we were having this same debate in this House. I, who am a novice parliamentarian — especially compared to you, Mrs Pontón — have already discussed two such laws, and countless proposals and motions in which they asked for a Greek tariff. I'm not going to tell you the initiatives that have to bring to this House, but the truth is they're starting to be quite tedious. And the case is that the People's Group doesn't think so, they think most of the Welsh and Welsh people don't buy their speech, and they show it to them in every election call. Look, Mr. Losada, I see you with a little reschemor. Of course, losing a government after thirty years and having to plug thousands of plugs in other places — or God knows where to put them! — is complicated. He's worried about who you've joined to take over the Moncloa. Worry about that, for whom you, the Catalan extremists, the Basque extremists have allied themselves... worry about it, ladies, so perhaps we can see to it that we can pass the budget. [[Murmurs.]] You'll still have to lower your pants, ladies. Look, the case is, back to the energy issue, the People's Party is no longer ruling in Madrid. The People's Party doesn't rule in Madrid. And you, when we were ruling in Madrid, they said that we were the electrics' friends, that we met with them... now you meet with them but you can't lower the price of electricity from a pen, as we were told. Then something fails, gentlemen. It must be that ruling is something else. And talking about talking is what you were doing here, gentlemen. Look, Mrs Pontón, the People's Group has the highest degree of coherence, and because it governs another political party in the state it doesn't change its mind. Or what do you think, what do we rule by whims, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u16	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u17	Look, that's the difference between us and you. The Greek fare, gentlemen of the BNG, is a bad proposal for the Greeks and the Greeks. And because Mr. Sánchez's government in Madrid we're not going to ask for it. I wonder where you were when Mr. Zapatero was ruling in Madrid, I wonder where they were. Look, don't be mistaken, because the people's politics is a serious policy, it's not a policy of demagogy like you do. Galicia's electrical disconnection with the rest of Spain would go very far towards the Greeks. And I'm not telling you that as a power spokesman for the People's Group, most of the audiences have been told on the popular legislative initiative that we discussed a year and a half ago in this Parliament. The Greeks would lose more than 300 million euros a year by not paying for what it costs to distribute energy in our community. Galicia generates more energy than it consumes, yes, but it is that our transport and distribution network is infinitely more expensive than other communities, such as that of Madrid, which you continually set an example. Galicia generates more energy than it consumes, because, when there was a socialist government in Spain that wasted the renewables — credits that we're following and we'll keep paying all for more than twenty years — our community has created renewable energy that now helps us to be exporters. So you, who only wants to benefit from the state where it suits you, want the Greeks to pay less light than the rest of the Spaniards. The Popular Group, Mrs. Pontón, wants all Spaniards to pay less light, and also to contaminate their production as little as possible. And for that, there is a need for a change in the energy frame and a sustainable energy transition, a serious and consensual change; and without occurrences, as you do. You in your law propose cheaper fees for surplus communities. They want to whiteen their bill by changing their name, but it's still the same story. I ask him: without the thermal power stations, Galicia would no longer be surplus — for a lot of renewable energy to be installed. What would happen later if your proposal could be carried out? We'd go from being surpluses to deficits and, therefore, we'd have to pay more light. I'm sorry, it's impossible to take your proposals seriously. Imagine what a proposal and what a more reasonable basis! Look, they stop inventing nationalistic matraquettes that there are Basque tariffs. They don't exist. There are six communities that have industries connected to that tension and pay that same rate. Or are they Basques the Catalans, the Andalusians or the canteens that have industries that connect to this tariff, gentlemen? Then leave your demagogy, please. The People's Group rejects, for the last time, its proposal for a Greek tariff, and for three reasons of high importance. First reason: he rejects his proposal for being a bad business for the Greeks—I explained it to him. And I didn't tell the People's Party, the audiences told him. I insist that there was only one — who was also a former member of his group — who defended the Greek tariff in this Parliament. And it might also be said that we should lower the rate by 30%. He said 30% as if he said 15% or as if he said 20%. Founded on what? Nothing! As I'm sure before the end of the legislation they'll bring back the same subject, to see how long it will take for them to download it at that time. I'm waiting. Second ground for refusal: because it is unusual with the rest of Spain. Look, you don't care. In the last energy balance published by Red Electric, which I have here and, if you would like, then easy, that corresponds to 2017, it is shown that Galicia would stay in a seventh place in relation to the energy it generates against what it consumes, with a positive balance of 132.8%. Then there are other exporting Spanish communities, and more exporters, such as Extremadura, the two Castles, A Rioxa, Aragon and Asturias. These days, gentlemen, they announced the bomb and dish their alliance with the Basque and Catalan extremists for the Europeans. They announced the alliance with those who violate the Constitution, and even those who defend terrorism. And I understand that this proposal that Galicia pays less for being surplus would not tell its Basque allies, they wouldn't tell them because, look, in the energy balance, it says that the Basque Country is weak, it only has a balance of 34.9%. So the Basques are debilitating, they have to import energy; and then, with their proposal, the Basque consumers would have to pay more energy. You didn't tell your Basque allies about this proposal, did you? I understand not. Because, if not, I don't think they agreed to go with you allies, gentlemen. Look, their disloyalty is such a level that they don't even have it with their own partners. The third reason for rejecting your Greek tariff — and no less important — is that as far as they are involved in your proposed Greek tariff, they go beyond the competences we have for our autonomy, we all know, and we all know that you live in a parallel world and that you don't respect institutions or the Constitution. Galicia is an autonomous community that belongs to the Spanish State, and energy regulation is state. Precisely because it's a service of general economic interest it has a harmonised regulation and as fair as possible. The Greeks prefer to align themselves with legality, not with extremists or allys of terrorism. You'll see! If you are not respectful or among yourselves, how do you expect the Greeks to believe they will be with them? Look, ladies and gentlemen, we agree that the price of electricity has risen to unabsorbed limits in recent years, and the rush of the People's Party's Government has been to lay the foundations for this not to happen. Now, there's no choice but to be slaves to an irresponsible past, than you, gentlemen of the BNG, were part of: they supported the government that caused the biggest hole in the electric sector of history. We must remember — and what I am going to say goes to the entire parliamentary arch on the left, because all of you were fighting at that ideology at that time — that in 2004 the deficit in the electricity sector was just over 1,500 million euros. And in 2011, when Mr. Zapatero left the Government, it was 30 billion euros. Yes, of course we cannot presume, Mr. Losada, to leave Spain as leaders in renewables. That's what you can pretend to be. But they can also assume the biggest breakdown in the electricity sector and our electricity bill, which is almost 40% of our bill. You're used to hearing him talk about Mr. Soria on other subjects. He does the trick and so... we can be accused of paralyzing renewables, but because of you, because of an unsustainable hole in the electric sector, gentlemen. That's why the bill of light has risen in these last few years, and I see that there are many more years left to pay. And new irresponsible decisions can become general, because in the last royal decree you passed Mr Sánchez already says there will be again a tariff deficit after three years of containment. So, ladies, that may happen again. In your bill, Mrs. Pontón, to differentiate you from the previous one, put the theme of interruptability. And we have discussed your proposal in committee. They put the same thing as we already discussed in the committee, which cannot be accepted because it would not meet the requirements that the European Union is asking for. Tomorrow the People's Group brings a proposal for a consensus of interruptability with the sector, and we hope you will support it, Your Honor. Let's hope they stand by that side and not, as always, profile. With regard to the energy transition and the closure of thermal power stations, our proposal is also clear: we demand that proposals be rigorous and at an efficient cost to truly benefit the citizenship and competitiveness of companies. What we don't want is that ideology marks decisions, and above all an ideology that tries to impose a far-left party, main partner of Mr. Sánchez's government. It is clear that it is necessary to develop measures that reduce electricity prices in addition to fulfilling European commitments on air pollution. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen — and, above all, what I am going to say is for you, Mr Losada — stop generating new uncertainties, work to offer stable solutions. It doesn't help shut down thermal power stations. They know that the price of the pool will rise by 15%. And besides, we don't have a solution for the affected neighborhoods. It doesn't help to shut down the nuclear power stations in other communities, close it will provoke, ladies and gentlemen, an increase also in the price of electricity by 25%, too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u18	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u19	It doesn't help to raise premiums to renewables — I explained earlier — and doesn't help raise taxes to diesel or ban the sale of non-electrical vehicles. And I'm done. As for the VlV download point, our group proposes not to touch this tax, but it also proposes not to increase others. Reitero: What sense would I have to lower the EVI to raise the tax to the diesel? We have discussed this subject on several occasions on a proposal from the Podemos Tides and the Galego Nationalist Block. They advocate leaving the collection as it is, both for the EVI and for the diesel. Let's think, ladies and gentlemen, in a serious energy transition, sustainable and suitable for the environment, but also for the pocket of all citizens. Quit demagogy, Mrs Pontón, and make reasonable proposals. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u20	Thank you very much, Mrs. Novoa. For the reply, the author group of the non-law proposal has the word for Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I, right now, almost all I have to say is that ignorance, gentlemen, is very, very bold. Ignorance, ladies and gentlemen, is very, very bold. [[Applause]] I'm sorry, I don't know if you have anything to say to the Members and Members of the PP. Ah! how? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u22	Continue, please. Shut up, everyone! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u23	Well, I want to first thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u24	Silence! And thank you for letting me know, thank you. Silence! [[Murmurs.]] Continue, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u25	Well, I want to thank you for the support of the En Marea Group, and just tell the Socialist Group — who said that we have to be patient — that I don't know if you can ask the Alcoa workers and workers, or Meirama, for those who are at stake in their work and the bread of their children. And, of course, governments are not to ask for patience, they are to rule and, if they really want to comply, to keep their word. Because the thing is, there are no solutions to the problems we have in our country. [[Applause]] And the truth is, I'm really sorry -- maybe I'm tempted to apologize to the workers and the workers who are here -- the maximum frivolity exercise when we have a country where we lost 8,500 jobs last year in the industrial sector, where there are 2,000 jobs at stake, and I'm just the tip of the iceberg from what can come if there are no energy solutions. And in the face of this debate, the People's Party and Mr. Feijóo put themselves on the flag of frivolity and, of course, show us once again that their coherence means always betraying the interests of this country. Today, by voting no, what Mr. Feijóo is doing is betraying the interests of Galicia, is leaving the four hundred workers and workers of Alcoa taken away, is leaving the workers of Meirama, is ultimately leaving the interests of this country. Because, look, we voted in this Parliament on many occasions on a Greek electric tariff, of course, yes, and more than we are going to vote, because it is a key issue for us to have a future. But it is in this Parliament that Members and Members of the People's Party voted in favour — and Mr Feijóo included — of a Greek electric tariff when I propose it precisely to the IGC through an ILP. [[Applause]] And what they did was then empty out of content that proposal based on lies, playing opportunism. Look, we're dealing with a key issue, and I'm glad that Mr Feijóo is here right now, because he can give you the opportunity to hear what the demands and concerns are at this moment in Galicia. Look, Asime's secretary-general — which I don't know if you're alone, and of course I don't know whether he's in the nationalist country too — a few days ago he published an article in which he literally said — and I'm going to read it in the language in which he wrote it — "There is no need to escape the possibility of thinking and debating — listen to gentlemen, I know you don't like it, but listen to it — about the convenience of a Galician electric tariff. National territorial solidarity should not be impeded to assess our resources and to take rational advantage of this possible competitive advantage for the Galician industry knowing the existing surplus of production." [[Murmurs.]] We've been lost for a long time. What we wanted today is that Galicia recovers and earns time, that we have a country position that defends employment, that gives the families of Alcoa and Meirama — and many others who are in bad shape — through this proposal, that we reduce energy poverty; and finally, that we do something for Galicia. What is really sad is to see how most of the People's Party, with the president of the board, Alberto Núñez Feijóo, in the head, prefers to continue defending the privileges of the electricians before Galicia's right to have a fair deal. Of course, it is evident that Mr. Feijóo, once again, betrays Galicia, betrays the 400 workers and Alcoa workers, betrays Meirama's workers and workers, and we see again how this country does not care about a chicken. Of course, sad, sad way to start this 2019.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Voting of taking into consideration the proposal for a law
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u27	At the end of the debate, we proceed to the vote on this bill. Close the doors, please. Voting of the bill's consideration for its elevation to the G.P. Congress of Deputies. to ensure that electrical production plays a social role in economic development and the creation of employment and wealth in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 53. The result of the vote is negative. Consequently, the consideration of this bill is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u28	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. We move on to point 2, appearances. Mr Advocate General F.G. Jacobs delivered his Opinion at the sitting of the Fifth Chamber on 22 November 2001. OO. e UGT
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u29	To formulate this appearance you have the word of the councillor of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, last January 15 — just two weeks ago — the Galician Union signed the Galician Social Agreement on Public Employment with the UGT unions and the Commissions. It is a pact that all parties consider historic and transcendental because it is the most important agreement in the issue of the civil service of Galicia in recent decades; an agreement — as I say — historical, ambitious and transformative of the civil service of Galicia, which benefits more than 21,500 families. And precisely because of this relevance, I think it is very important that I have knowledge of him in this House, so I asked for his presence to be able to debate him before the plenary. Ladies and gentlemen, before exposing this agreement in detail, I would like to remind you — although briefly — that in the last decade we have witnessed the greatest economic crisis of autonomy in Galicia, a situation that caused us to have to undergo a series of reforms in public service — yes, temporary — in order to safeguard the sustainability of the Greek public services. With much work Galicia managed to reassess this situation, it came out of the crisis and went back one after another those temporary measures, and canceling all the global labor adjustments that affected public employees. And more recently, in March 2018, an important agreement was signed between the Central Government — hence the one led by Mariano Rajoy — and the trade union organizations. In this covenant there are a number of contents that can be transferred to autonomous communities. Galicia also has the advantage of its solvency and good performance, by fulfilling year by year the fixed targets of deficit, debt, as well as the rule of expenditure and the average period of payment. In this context we closed last year with a round of wage agreements. Sergas employees have been re-started from their careers and have already paid 60% of a degree since January 1st this year. The teachers of education began to perceive 40% of the agreed linear suba of EUR 1,200 plus a year. The workers of justice have already benefited 80% of the agreed rise. Environmental agents have also benefited from the 2018 agreement to raise them to their target complement level, as well as their guards. The staff of the Equality and Welfare Consortium received an annuality of the 2016 Agreement for the Equalization of their salaries to those of the Union staff. And finally, since the German Government, we have decided to start a phase of negotiations with trade union organizations that gave rise to this historic conciliation agreement. In this negotiation we formulate ambitious objectives. As I have just said, we not only pursue a mere wage improvement but we want to share with trade union organizations a vision of the current situation of public service through its diagnosis and joint search for solutions, in order to identify the most important problems facing the self-government. And we consider these to be four: stability and aging of the templates; secondly, inequality in working conditions; thirdly, the lack of instruments of recognition and motivation; and fourthly, the need to offer certainty about new rights. Let's start with job stability. We all agree that the rate of stability in employment should improve. This Government has always had this vision and, in fact, in recent years we have made several decisions to place our rate of temporality and stability, therefore, among the highest in Spain. That's why we kept Spain's most stable staff during the crisis, because Junta did not perform experiments during the crisis. Other communities did. In addition, we have exhausted the possibilities that have given us the fixed replenishment rates each year, always going as far as possible of the convened squares. And we're still hiring troops to maintain and strengthen our public services, so logically the temporary staff has increased. Secondly, heterogeneity within the job. Another problem that concerns us is equality in employment in public services. Currently in the Autonomic Administration there are two legal regimes for the provision of public services: workers and staff. And they do it almost in terms of parity, with a large volume of staff but also of staff. It's a dual model in which civil servants are governed by public law and labor rules by the V Collective Staff Convention of the Galician Union of Labour. This situation leads to professionals with virtually identical functions having differences in both day-to-day and salary and other working conditions. Both sides share that this situation causes differences that are not reasonable: it makes mobility difficult, limits promotion, multiplies professional categories and increases the number of lists of contracts, something negative for those waiting for work — how many times have we heard that the lists do not move!, and, if they don't move too much, perhaps because there are too many—; it fragmentes and multiplies the units of union representation and obviously the collective bargaining; and it obliges both the Galician Union and the workers themselves to bear unnecessary over-costs to the social security regime. So we believe that this fragmentation in the way we work is not good for anyone. That's why we moved to the unions that we wanted an integral view of the public service with a homogeneous formulation to put an end to this situation in the interests of both the professionals and the public service they provide. We wanted to be the first German government to formulate a solution to this problem so that public employees work under the same conditions and so that the citizen knows that he will always be cared for by a public official. Thirdly, the crisis has prevented professional development, and we want to solve this problem. We also agreed to detect that having to make return efforts did not allow us to move forward as we would like to in action to stimulate more quality work, with more training and better adaptation to change. We are aware that public employees are making efforts to update their knowledge, but there was also a lack of a professional itinerary that stimulated them to improve permanently and had the recognition of those who could make progress. We believe that the Greek public employees must be recognized and motivated. That's why we looked at the recognition systems of professional itineraries that we found in Galicia. The only thing that exists today is that of Sergas' professional career, and it's been a few years. No other Greek administration has a similar system and we ask ourselves, why not extend this good model of our health to our officials and thus converge into a common autonomic system? The unions agreed with the Galician Union that this would be a good model to follow. The professional career system is already provided for in our Public Employment Act, but it is still under development at the state level through the Basic Statute of the Public Employee. It's up to the central government, and it seems to have no prospect of carrying it out at the moment, but this does not prevent us from doing it. And fourthly, the need to incorporate new rights. We would like to address with the unions the desirability of transferring some of the contents of the framework agreement, signed by the Rajoy Government, in order to incorporate them into the heritage of the Greek officials, as well as to take decisions on aspects which the agreement did not close and take advantage of other opportunities open to us. The Greek Government has led this aspect to negotiation to provide public employees with assurances about wage increases to be applied in the coming years and on new commitments in relation to working time and conciliation measures. In short, with this commitment, and in order to be able to agree on solutions that would allow us to address the shared problems, we have been seated for nine months with the representatives of the workers to formulate our proposals to them. Ladies and gentlemen, by sharing the same diagnosis of the problems analyzed and by seeking consensus on possible solutions, we have signed a global agreement that will lead to a genuine transformation into a new public function. It stops from a system of very ambitious goals that have never been formulated together in the history of the community and that few communities are addressing in a unified way. Because we're no longer talking about restoring rights to public employees, but creating new rights for providers of these public services, which will therefore benefit all the Greeks. The agreement is supported by four pillars: stability, functionalization, career and new rights. With regard to stability, the agreed agreement sets out the objective of increasing the stability of public employment dependent on the Galician Union and reducing the rate of timeliness to be placed around 7% — a percentage point below the state level — or, what is the same, achieving a stability of 93%. In this way we also address the common problem of template aging and we will achieve the necessary staffing renewal. That is why in the agreement we are committed to ensuring a minimum number of public job offers for this year 2019 and the following in the General Administration alone. This minimum number gives certainty to citizens who want to work with us in the administration and also to professionals who are already working in the administration and want to consolidate or improve their employment. It must be borne in mind that more public employment offers will be convened in the health and education sectors. In education, last week it was confirmed that this year there will be a huge offer that will go beyond the 2,000 squares, the largest in the last decade. In particular, this agreement provides that OP 2019 will be approved in the first quarter of the year and will include a minimum of 525 free access posts; 730, plus stabilization; and a minimum of 800 operationalization. Administration and trade unions also agreed that this year's public employment supply prioritizes those where there is more instability, such as social services and fire prevention. By its band, the OP 2020 will include a minimum of 550 free access posts; 900 plus stabilization posts; and a minimum of 800 operationalization. We are committed to face with guarantee a transcendental stage for the Galician Union. In the period 2018-2020 we will offer one out of four squares to work with stability in councils, social services centers and firefighting devices. At these squares, of course, you can present any citizen who meets the requirements. Secondly, and on the other hand, to address the problem of heterogeneity in employment, we decided to bet on the public regime and progressively abandon the work regime. So we decided to use a tool already provided for in our 2015 Public Employment Act: the conversion of staff to staff. The Autonomic Administration has been preparing for the last three years, with simplification of categories of the collective agreement and also with the comprehensive review of the employment relationship in all offices. Functionalization will be a simple and voluntary process for fixed-term workers, which through competition-opposition of internal promotion, and for once, will be able to become an official. In addition, it will respect the rights acquired by employees, so the beneficiaries will maintain their current destination and the recognition of all previous services. We are going to facilitate and encourage this process, since there will be no economic loss, since if operationalization would raise less pay would be compensated with a personal complement. In addition, the first triennium will be charged as a labour force if it is higher than an official. The labor workers who participate in the process will not lose their status either; in this way they will have more opportunities for full mobility and professional promotion, and will give them access to professional careers, which we have also agreed on in this agreement and which I will explain below. Also, the recruitment lists will be unified, with which we want them to be less and more active, preventing people from turning to non-moving recruitment lists. This process has already begun at the OPE of 2018, which has booked more than 500 operationalisation squares, number which, as I indicated a few moments ago, will be substantially expanded in the years 2019 and 2020. It will be the greatest transformation of the Welsh public service in its history. In a few years, the volume of staff has drastically decreased and the staff will be clearly functional. In a few years, there will be a unitary system of rights, obligations and benefits in the autonomous administration of Greece. Thirdly, another aspect of the diagnosis shared by the Administration and the trade union organizations was the convenience of implementing a voluntary and consolidated professional career system, which is already generalized in health care but which is not common in general administrations. In fact, there is no other administration in Galicia, except in health care, and it is not generalized in other autonomous communities or in the State administration. We intend to place Galicia in the lead group, where public employees have a professional itinerary protected throughout their careers. The professional career will make effective the right of public employees to progress individually, as a recognition of their development in terms of knowledge, training, experience, engagement and participation in initiatives of public interest. And its objectives are the recognition of the approach of professionals to quality improvement, the objective recognition of professional competence, the promotion of the culture of commitment to public services and motivation, encouragement and continuing training. The agreed career system is incorporated into the legal regime of the staff member of the Board, however, and as I have already pointed out, workers can also access this system voluntarily and individually choose to accommodate the process of operation and overcome it. This agreed system is very similar to what Sergas and the unions have agreed on in the health system. So we promote a common model for self-service workers. The foundations that we have now agreed on will be developed on a regular basis throughout this year. We have agreed on a professional career system with two access routes; an ordinary one, for the future, and an extraordinary one, to recognize the performance of employees who are already career officials. In the case of ordinary staff, it will be the normal system for new staff and it will also apply to those who have been in the administration for less than five years. It'll be five degrees. An initial of five years; the first and the second shall be six years; and the third of seven years after which the maximum shall be reached, the fourth. In the case of extraordinary work, it is intended for civil servants and workers to function, all of them over five years old. It leads to direct access to grade 1, before evaluation and without going through the initial grade, and faster progress to grades 2 and 3. The first-degree economic deployment will be three years for groups A1 and A2 and two years for other groups. This is a system to improve the quality of the work they do for citizens, and for this reason, to recognize the performance of professionals. Therefore, in order to be able to make progress in careers, vocational activity and experience will be taken into account; training and innovation; involvement and commitment with the organization; participation in special initiatives and programmes, as well as in specific or transversal work lines; and, finally, the processes of change and the implementation of new systems. The beneficiaries will progressively receive an annual account per grade ranging from EUR 761.52 from public employees in category E to EUR 2.460.36 in category A1. It will be a great challenge for the Self-Government, because it is something that has never been addressed in the General Administration of the Union. It will therefore be a challenge for those who have the responsibility to represent the workers and also for those who have the responsibility to manage the civil service. Fourthly, and finally, we have agreed with trade union organizations to include a series of new rights for Greek public employees such as minimum wages, agreed upon with the aim of reaching certainty for the coming years in relation to their wages. As I say, the text that we are discussing today also includes the increase in public service staff agreed on for the period 2018-2020. In 2018, the already known increase was 1.75%, 1.5% fixed and 0.5% variable, linked to the target of the increase in GDP in 2017, which had been established at 3.1%. In 2019, for this exercise, the general increase for all public employees will be 2.25%, and in this respect I can confirm that even today they are receiving this increase in their January payroll, which averages about 810 euros a year. This salary sub will be added by an additional 0.25%, starting from the first July, if GDP growth in Spain is equal to or greater than 2.5%. With the wage increases agreed, which will be additional to those of the professional career, the wages of the Greek public employees are located this year above those they had before the crisis, as they exceed those of the economic crisis, and the forecasts are to continue to improve their wages. In 2020, the increase will be 2% and the additional 1% variable if GDP increases by 2.5 % or more. If the budgetary stability target was met in 2020, an additional 0.55% increase would be added in 2021, which was 3,85 % of total increase in the previous year. Thus, if the variable part is met, the total increase accumulated in three years will be 8.79%. Secondly, and since January 1st this year, all the public employees in Greece already receive 100 percent of the wages in all the assumptions of temporary incapacity. The commitment of the Union and the consensus reached with the unions enabled the employee to collect the most beneficial option, within the possible interpretations derived from the 2018 improvement agreement. We comply, in this way, with a measure highly demanded by trade union organizations. Thirdly, the terms agreed also include important measures to reconcile family and work life. The Galician Board will present, in the first quarter of this year, a plan for the establishment of lower annual days for staff with shift, night or particularly heavy days. In addition, we will propose a free-will hour bag, accumulable to each other, up to 5% of the current day, with a recoverable character in the period of time as determined. It shall be directed in a justifiable way to the attention of conciliation measures for the care and care of older, disabled and minor children, in accordance with which they are determined in each case. We will also arbitrate measures to promote full recovery from the completion of chemotherapy or radiotherapy processes to be determined by the parties; reduction of the daily rate by 50% in the next 30 days after the end of these treatments. Finally, I want to finish by repeating that we have left behind the process of restitution of rights, and we can undertake another that expands the rights heritage of the Greek public employees and equips them, with an integral vision of a single official regime. In this context, we agree with a global package of measures to improve the performance of their work, a set of measures that complement general subs and careers that involve wage subs above the increase in the average cost of living, both those recorded in recent years and those provided for in the Budget Act for the coming years. These agreed increases make it possible to regain all the purchasing power lost during the economic crisis, and they have as a result — I insist — that the Greek public employees have a higher salary this year than they had before the economic crisis. We are at a very important moment, in which we are looking for a real transformation of the Welsh public service; in which the quality and stability of employment are improved; in which any discrimination between workers who perform the same functions is eliminated; in which there is a true professional career that serves to improve and motivate the public employee; and in which there are more and more facilities and options to reconcile family and work life. And we're already taking the first steps towards this. The order for making payrolls has already been published in the Official Journal of Galicia to cover the increase of 2.25 % for this year, and in this order also the amounts of the professional career agreed for this year. The follow-up commission of this agreement is already running, and public employees have already charged, from the first of January, 100 percent of their salaries in all cases of temporary incapacity. And we'll go this way. In a few weeks, we will process the regulation to make the operation effective. In just a few months, we will open the process to request the extraordinary regime to progress in the career, both for officials and for employees, has made it decide to function with effect since January 1st, 2019. We will also open the deadline for public employees, whether temporary, fixed or temporary employees or career officials with no seniority to enter the extraordinary regime, to fall within the initial degree of the ordinary career regime. We will also set the conditions for the ordinary career, taking into account the services also provided since January 1st this year. And in the first quarter we will close the public job offer for this year, fulfilling the collection in the conciliation agreement. I would like to thank the organizations that sign this agreement, UXT and the Workers' Commission, for being able to anticipate the general interest of public employees in their own trade union interests; for being able to work with long lights to favour more than twenty-five thousand public employees, when the easiest would be to opt for strategies linked to trade union elections. And I also want to thank the work of the organizations that didn't sign the agreement, because they themselves have publicly recognized that they were part of the negotiation and consensus finally reached. We respect that they did not want to join this agreement, even if we regret it, but we will be loyal, because we understand that their position could be conditioned by union electoral processes. Among all of us, we are transforming the Administration to respond successfully to the digital challenge and to be able to care for citizens from their own homes. That's why this is a useful agreement for Galicia, where we all win: the administration, public employees and trade union organizations, and above all they earn the Greeks, because they will have better public services and stable professionals, better trained and more motivated. An agreement which has been reached in a constructive spirit, without conflicts, in good faith and with a better will between the parties, and which guarantees social peace in the autonomous administration. An example of how it's useful to bet on social dialogue and collective bargaining as a formula for making progress in improving public service and its employees. Besides, this pact is taking place at a very important time, because we will have to face in the next ten years, only in the General Administration, the retirement of some 8,500 professionals from the 21,500 people working with us today. This is the result of the strong aging that we are suffering from all public administrations and that makes it necessary to renew them. So it's obvious that in the coming years there will be important job opportunities in the Union. We want to attract talent to the administration, young people, our universities and our teaching, with new ideas, well-trained and public service vocation. And from the administration we want to offer them, in this way, the best quality employment in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u31	Thank you very much, Counselor. We welcome the first undergraduate students from the IES Losada Dieguez of the Road, who have just entered the Hemicycle. We continue the debate with the intervention of the parliamentary groups. On behalf of the BNG parliamentary group, Mr Bará Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u32	Good morning. Mr. Martínez, in spite of the enthusiasm and passion he put in the defense of this issue, and the enthusiasm that we could also check in the popular benches when he applauded his intervention, the truth is that he didn't convince us at all, because you came here talking about a bad deal, signed by the Union and two minority unions, and this has to be made clear. You spoke at various moments of intervention about the union agreement between the Unions, even at the end of the negotiations, in the final consensus by all trade unions, and it must be made clear that this agreement was signed by two trade unions, Labour Commissions and UXT, who are minorities in the union representation of the Galician Union Administration, and this is an important issue. You have put in your intervention many traps, many deceptions, many disguises, and we want to raise precisely those traps, starting with the traps in language. You're talking about a conciliation agreement that's actually not an agreement, as we're telling you, it's a disagreement of disconcerting, because the majority of the union, the majority of the union representation, did not support this agreement, and for some reason it will be. It's therefore a disagreement. They say it's discriminatory, they say it's unfair and they say a lot more than we'll notice during the intervention. The second trap, the second deception that brought us here, is that we're really talking about the imposition of a negotiating framework outside Galicia, the imposition of state agreements. Here they come to apply in a different way an agreement that has already been signed -- we don't know if it's even simulated -- for the whole state on behalf of the central government with some union power stations, not all of them. And this proves that you are betting on the centralization of collective bargaining, passing over the powers that Galicia has in this matter, and we, of course, do not share it. [[Applause]] The truth is that we were a little happy at the BNG bench for this new position — I don't know if it's almost sovereign — of the People's Party, claiming the highest skills for Galicia, at the level of Catalonia and the state to get rid of that ultra line of Mr. Casado. It seemed as if you were taking the flag of Galicia's defense in the face of the aggravating of the central government, but we really see in practice — which is where things are shown — that are not in those positions, and in this case they were clearly left in evidence. The third trap is that this agreement, signed by these two unions — I insist, minority civil service unions — was done without the participation and consultation of the entire staff of the administration, it seems that you are afraid of democracy, which is afraid of the participation of workers and workers. And this bad agreement was carried out without taking account of the participation of the sectoral tables and the various areas of negotiation. Then there is the fourth trap, which seems to us the most serious, which is that this bad agreement is to accept that story about the crisis and the exit of the crisis that attempts to transmit the right — and that you have repeated here in your intervention — about the causes and consequences of the crisis and about the sacrifices that the working class has to make — that you have imposed on the working class, while the most privileged sectors, the great capital, the big companies, have gained great benefits from the development of the crisis and the outcome of the crisis, as we see in the macroeconomic figures. This means that you intend to make tabular of everything that has happened in these ten years, and in practice they lose most of the wage and labor rights taken away by the excuse of the crisis, because this is what happened, that the working class has been robbed of pay rights and labor rights. You give, by the way, irreversibly — despite all that you have said and we do not share, it is not true — this seizure of more than twenty percent of the income, of the wages, of the various routes, since the reduction of the 5% already imposed in the Zapatero government, the seizure of extra wages, to wage freeze, to the higher tax pressure, to the rise of the IPC. Of course! you come here saying that you're going to charge public administration staff more than you paid in 2008 and that's not true, because you don't apply all the IPC ups and losses that the workers had in these years. And it has to be said that all these losses, all these taxes of loss of labour and wage rights, were the result of measures taken by state governments, first by the Socialist Party and then by the People's Party, and also, especially, by the People's Party in Galicia, through these temporary measures in the field of public employment that many of them have become permanent measures, because you have been advanced students and have applied even more rigorously here these ultra-conservative measures. You seem to want to pass that page, but we're not going to pass it. We're talking about a true black decade for the public employment he's put in and is putting fundamental public services at risk, and we're seeing him in health care. What is now happening in health is the result of the policies of destruction and deterioration of public employment applied by the People's Party over all these years, and that is what is leading to a large part of the population and public health professionals getting up, mobilized, to avoid this situation. You came here with that mantra, with that lie that they repeated and repeated and repeated, that they were going to do more with less, but you can't do more with less. You can't do more with less, and you know people who work in public health, who work in primary care, who work in the CAP, who work in emergencies. They know they can't do more with less and they were suffering in their own flesh. You did what you did was destroy thousands of jobs in the Public Service; over 6,000 have destroyed you in these years. What they've done is to increase precariousness and temporality, and now they're coming to us with which they're going to reduce temporality. You were the ones who took it up, and now, as there are judgments of European courts, there is no choice but to walk in the opposite direction. You guys did what they did was increase privatization, what they did was eliminate labor rights and what they did was lower wages. So, we're at the stage of these agreements reached in 2017, 2018, 2019, and this actually means that the policy suffered by the public administration staff, and they place them in this absolutely regressive and reactionary framework. And we do not share, of course, that reversal that you tried to make that we are not in the debate of regaining rights, but in the debate of getting new rights. No, no, you're what you're trying to do with this deal is convince some unions that they're going to recover some rights, because new rights, of course, we don't see them here; of course, in income we don't see them. Most unions have also made it clear, because you talk about the benefits of that career and there is no such thing, because there is a note — I think it is powerful — of the majority union who, of course, questions this agreement as to professional career. Look, two-thirds of the Public Service Staff Boards in all provinces, and also the Central Administration, that's what I think is powerful. Then, of course, you come here also to tell us that there are no precedents for professional career agreements, when there is Sergas, by the way. What these majority unions are saying to you — the majority, those who have not agreed on this agreement — is that the Sergas agreement is much better than that of the Galician Administration, and they ask you to apply these same Sergas clauses. But there are other agreements in Galicia, Mr. Martínez. For example, the staff of this Parliament have a better agreement than you have just signed. Why don't they apply, for example, what the unions tell them, those agreements? Then, on the pay issue, they talk about a wage increase — you spoke here of almost 9%, 8.79% — which is not real either, because you do not take into account the increase in the IPC in these years envisaged by the Banco de España, for example, which would place this increase virtually in half. Nor did he take into account the increase in the CPI in the past years and all the revenue losses that the civil service staff had. As for replenishment rates, the public job destroyed by the excuse of the crisis is not recovered, and this is a fundamental issue for us. It is essential to regain that destroyed public job. I've told him more than 6,000 jobs that were destroyed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u33	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u34	...they're in the official numbers. What we have come to claim here is the elimination of replacement rates, because there is also an agreement in this Parliament that demands it: that Galicia exercises its own powers in the field of public employment and therefore does not apply these replacement rates. It also seems to us that we have an offer of public employment that he told us about here. Finally, Mr. Martínez, we are talking about a bad deal, a disagreement, a regressive misagreement that goes against the position of most of the staff and most of the trade union organizations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u35	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. You have the floor by the Socialists' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u36	Thank you, President. Good morning. Good morning, ladies. I greet the students who accompany us today. Good morning, Counselor. He spoke in a triumphal way that we attended a historic, transcendental agreement, for the civil service of Galicia, and if the agreement meant to be historical and intended to be transcendental for the civil service of Galicia, the concerted effort and collective bargaining effort of the Government of Galicia should have been much more ambitious and be able to integrate in this negotiation process the whole set of trade unions present in the civil service of Galicia. That's the reality, Counselor. [[Applause]] In that sense — I insist — I was talking about an excessive triumphalism of four points that we can analyze more or less by the moment. He was talking about temporality, he was talking about equality in employment, the processes of functionalization, he was talking about the fourth pillar of professional career systems, and he was talking about the neo-language rather than recovery, but the acquisition of new rights. And I'll tell you why I'm also talking about neo-speaking in that sense. Almost in preliminary form, the different political groups present in this House had called for the presence of the Health Counsellor, with which he is falling in the field of public health services. In that sense, it's not by underestimating the presence of the councillor of Fairy to speak of a sector, the General Administration of Galician Unity, or the Education Adviser this afternoon, I suppose to speak of teaching, but it's true that the Greek society is demanding at this time more explanations in the field of health and therefore in the field of public health employment. But we're going to the question that brings us here today and that yesterday — not by chance, of course — published the Official Journal of Galicia, the agreement it presents to us today. I think we can actually say that we have attended one more phase of the correction policies by the Government of Galicia, by the Government of Feijóo, regarding the policies that have been applying practically since 2010. In that sense, this appearance, Counsellor, is a further proof of that policy of rectification of actions carried out over these years. Corrections during the past year in the field of Justice staff; corrections in 2018 — as I well described — for all non-university teachers. We could also talk a lot about university professors and how they applied against research capacity and curriculum surpluses to wage reduction in Galicia. Corrigendum too — as they did at the end of last year — throughout the policy on forest agents. And rectification for health personnel, forced marches, based on professional career agreements. And now it's about rectification for the entire staff of the Autonomic General Administration, of these about 20,000 public employees. In that sense, we are talking about rectification because we believe that all these new agreements, presented — I insist — in an excessive way or with excessive triumphalism, really do not do so by conviction, but they do it as a fruit of all social pressure and fruit that they are aware, obviously, like all public service users, of the serious deterioration that the public services in Galicia have suffered during the last few years of the Government of Mr Feijóo. That is how they know and overcome the absolute need for these policies to be rectified. [[Applause]] We could say that this agreement is really not historical. Obviously, it's not going to happen in history because you don't get the necessary social concertation quotas and for some other reason I'm going to comment on it and also commented on it by the spokesman of the Nationalist Block of Wales. What was historical — I think we have it clear and that the students now leaving have it clear — was the destruction in the quality of public services that the Government of Feijó applied from 2012 to 2017 at least. That was historic, Counselor! In this sense, we in the various interventions — to some of them I will refer — in the field of public services, in public employment, especially during the negotiations of the budgets and the laws of measures of each year, we have always pointed out as from 2012 the Government of Feijóo, in coordination, in convolence and in cooperation necessary, of course, here and in other autonomous communities, of course, with the Government of Rajoy, indeed led forward a systematic process, a process drawn up and organised, of course, for a progressive slowdown of public services, in this case in the autonomic public sector. And we said on many occasions also that it was a process that aggravated precisely that social contract that was being broken in Galicia too, because of this great recession that started in 2008 that essentially affects the most impoverished layers, or with less capacity, of the population. So, of course, after these social contracts are broken, populism, extremism, independence etc. comes, and so we are in the current situation. I would like to remind you, Mr Counsellor, that the Council of Galicia was the Public Administration in Spain, that in the period from 2013 to 2016 — they know perfectly — it has applied the biggest wage cut in the number of public employees in Spain — they know perfectly well, and the frontispic nature of these abrasive policies in public employment was Law 1/2012, from which we have so many times asked for its full derogation, except for those timely issues that can be incorporated — as I have told you on other occasions — into Galicia's General Public Employment Law, that is the reality. The reality is that we have to remember how in 2017, on the grounds of other interpellations we had made, Counsellor, to the thread of budgetary debates, trade union organizations were talking about how this kind of controlled flight had been established from all collective bargaining processes that they are now trying to recover. We have, of course, told them how they were undermining dangerously — and now we are seeing the first consequences — the autonomic public sector, in order to reach that state, which we put to it on one occasion, 38% on GDP weight, compared with the average in Europe around 43% or 44%. They're necessarily reverting these policies, but because they're realizing that the public services in Galicia are already suffering in a scandalous way. Obviously, we have taken in macroeconomic terms — as the Counsellor always reminds us — four or five years of growth in both gross domestic product and gross savings rates, and there is no longer any remedy but to recover some of the reduced, cut rights to self-employed public employees and, therefore, to the main capital, which is human capital, from autonomous public services. Mr Counsellor, in the amendments tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group to the 2019 budgets and the 2019 Budget Support Act, we have tabled a whole series of measures to restore those rights and progress on those rights, of which we can practically say that they have not incorporated any, beyond the consolidation of the professional career system. I remind you how at the plenary session on 8 May we jointly adopted a motion precisely to incorporate Galicia into the terms of this second public employment agreement in the field, signed in Madrid in March last year. If we take a brief look — some additional questions I may have to comment on later, in the next round of replicas — we can welcome the agreement of these characteristics, but what we cannot say is that it has so many shadows. An agreement that is, above all, presenting or may have the feet of clay, may have a virtual character or remain in mere declaration of intent, because if we look at the first part, which is the incorporation of the second agreement, it is basic regulations, Mr Counsellor, they know perfectly well. When we have to get wet in something, which is to delineate additional funds on wage mass, there is no clear commitment for 2019 and 2020. Less bad than the other day, at the Congress of Deputies, they passed the Royal Law on increases in public sector salaries throughout the country, in order to be able to apply in Galicia the whole pay system [[Applause]] The salary increase for the period 2018, 2019 and 2020 does not come from the hand of this agreement, does not come from the hand of the Autonomous Budgets Act, comes from the state's decisions that originate from that second agreement and that originate from the decree passed by the Central Government; from which comes the pay increase for the whole multi-annual framework. If we meet other commitments in the field of career systems, you know perfectly, first, that this is a topic that has already been born in the 2007 Basic Staff of Public Employees, I mean that they are not currently discovering the gunpowder. Secondly, they may have an important problem in excluding — they will have to analyse — all personnel of an interim nature of the extraordinary systems of inclusion in professional career processes, in accordance with the recent judgments of the Supreme Court in relation to the career system and a dispute that took place at the Catalan Institute of Health. They'll have to look at that situation. But what we are also concerned about is that this system, as Mr Bará also pointed out, is not being ratified by all the staff meetings of officials of the Autonomic Administration, which are the bodies that will have to represent the staff in the course of carrying out many of these processes. As far as job supply is concerned, there are no more commitments than those already established in the second agreement, that 108 per cent is what it is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u37	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u38	And when we're talking about additional offers, we're talking about that we're going to talk about, there's no concrete commitments. In terms of functionalization, which we also share a unique model of public function, in this matter they have been about four or five years behind the set-up of these processes. So, Counsellor, these are some of the lights that present this agreement with Commissions and UGT, but there are lots of shadows, and there are many assurances that, as I said before, they will have to manage to get this agreement out. There are two or three more questions, which I will comment on in the next round, which are of concern that this agreement, really, is neither historical nor is it the fruit of a belief that convinced capacity for collective bargaining. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u39	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Torregrosa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u40	President. Good morning, ladies. Counsellor, public service measures are positive but insufficient, and it is clear that they do not represent all sides. They serve to stop the right-to-right indentation but do not recover those who have been lost. We believe that rising public employees' salaries are positive, but far from being triumphalist, clearly insufficient. A rise similar to the growth of the IPC is expected, so it will not allow for the recovery of purchasing power lost by officials and civil servants over the past eight years, which is estimated at 15% according to conservative calculations. The improvement in the staff replacement rate is fine, but we still think it's far below the real staff needs. The fees now presented can stop the ageing of staff, but they keep public administrations without sufficient staff who will be forced to continue outsourcing services. The strategy of recent years has not changed. It's just a little bit of makeup. Public employment consolidation offers are necessary, but they are still a problem that has generated the Government and is now forced to solve. It is the result of a bad policy which has forced its staff temporarily to be recruited and which now challenges the European Commission. PP's recipes, precariousness and temporality, proved to be ineffective, and this process corroborates it. The possibility of reducing the working day is warm, one must recognize once again the ability of each public administration to negotiate the working conditions of its staff, and of course, among them, the day. You must respect your ability to negotiate without conditioning, recognized by the Basic Staff of Public Employees. As we stated in a motion last year, the adoption of the extraordinary measures to reduce the public deficit in 2010 was a consequence of leaving the global financial markets, such as the European Central Bank or the International Monetary Fund, with the complicity of certain right-wing governments. In the case of the Spanish and Galician State — both governments based on poorly called austerity economic policies — it is clear that some have benefited from them, rather than from neoliberal policies, from cuts to working classes and privileges for large companies, justifying themselves after the crisis that started in 2008 and which has paid — and is still paying — the people of the common people who live in their work. His model of precariousness and theft of rights to the entire working class, both of the public and the private sector, is the great underlying problem and the great structural problem in reality of the model that you defend and perpetuate, through the back door in many cases and with financial excuses that leave aside the citizenship to which every Government owes itself and for what it has been elected. Curiously, the same agencies and companies responsible for the crisis and corruption are those who have determined that governments like theirs have taken a number of measures that, far from solving the crisis, have served to undermine the health of public finances, based on aid and rescue with public money — the money of all — to the bank, the highways, the building of infrastructures and businesses, while offset by a process of cutting rights of the working class and the most disadvantaged and rights also of those who have worked and now have the right to live with dignity, the pensioners, until they all got out and out of the streets. Today it has been shown that other types of budgets are possible, and it has been shown that trading with social agents can be made a separate distribution of all the money. With the exception of the European Central Bank and the governor of the Banco de España, in the heat of markets, they defended the deregulation of financial markets, the reduction of public expenditure, privatization and the flexibility of the labour market to share poverty. All austere measures and wild cuts, especially applied to the public sector and the welfare state, were not enough to satisfy the voracity of the financial markets, which have our country at the point of view of their speculative interests. It has now ended the excuse of the crisis with the increase in GDP, the change of the majority in the Congress of Deputies, the new budget allocation and the restoration of dialogue and collective bargaining. Here you come hanging up a medal that doesn't suit you because you've been forced by citizen mobilization, the executive change in the balance of state forces, the union pressure of workers and public workers, and you've had to surrender and reopen the dialogue here in Galicia and start returning just a few of what they've been robbed of by these workers with the freezing of the whole system, because what has been done to them all these years has been immoral. Now we're not going to put flowers on those who don't deserve it. This agreement is a result of the negotiator effort and the responsibility of representatives of the civil servants and workers of the Galician Union, it is not a gift from the Government. Of course, we know that debt to public employees is not paid and that this agreement is only a step forward in the transposition of the State Agreement of 9 March 2018, which called for the recovery of wages, employment and collective bargaining itself. By way of conclusion, the agreement presented to us today by the Councillor must be a first step towards definitively consolidating collective bargaining in the Galician Union and no longer regulating the conditions of public employees to the coup d'état of state basic legislation, with the aim of reaching other complementary agreements that will enable them to recover all other rights seized in 2012, such as the nine days of their own affairs, the Social Action Fund, compensation for working on holidays and Sundays, all lost public employment, as well as expanding and improving others such as ordinary career, facilitating the setting up of each worker or worker in the degree corresponding to them by antiquity. The Government cannot be credited any merit beyond what was signed at the state level, and with regard to Galicia's own issues such as the functioning of staff and the development of professional careers, is also collected in the EBEP of 2007 and in the Public Employment Act of Galicia. Responsibility and ethics, gentlemen, and at least now do something to remedy the enormous damage they have done to the entire citizenry, to the whole working class and to sink into chaos as a country through their nefarious and privatizing management for the interests of their party and their friends. This agreement — we repeat — is a small first step, but the beginning of all that needs to be restored. That's why our commitment is to continue to defend that everything stolen is returned to overcome this model that you want to impose on the precariousness of the Greek public administrations, their services and their workers and workers, and then to defend against citizens that a private model, outsourced, works better and is less bad for them, when it not only gives worse service, but is more expensive. For this we will always have to face, because our model is the empowerment and dignity of the public, this social model that does not exclude citizens from their current account, and the care of their employees to perform their public work dignifiedly, believing in this social model for all. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Torregrosa. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Moreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Good morning, Counselor. Welcome. From the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Counsellor, we would like to congratulate you on the agreement on public employment in Galicia signed with the UGT unions and other Labour Commissions. [[Applause]] We are undoubtedly, as you yourself have said, in the face of a historic agreement, the most important in the history of Autonomy, and we must say it and be proud of it because it is a achievement of all. It is historical in both quantitative and qualitative terms and implies a change of philosophy — something that you, the opponents, cannot appreciate. It is a new conception of the configuration and development of the public function; a transformer and creator agreement of a new public function and an agreement, in addition, which is not limited to the mere restitution of the rights of public employees, rights, by the way, suspended, unsolicited, here nothing is stolen, Mrs. Torregrosa. A series of rights were suspended here because of very special and specific circumstances, by Law 1/2012, and as soon as they could be recovered, they were all recovered. [[Murmurs.]] And today we can say that we were the first autonomous community to return the extra payments, for example. [[Murmurs.]] And today we're taking a step forward, looking forward to the future, to change and improve public service. It's an agreement that, no doubt, will yield to the benefit of the public employees and the administrators of the Greeks. Counselor, look, I'll tell you something. There is one circumstance that we can appreciate that confirms that we are facing a magnificent agreement, and that, since this agreement was adopted in the vote on 27 December in the High Staff Commission of the Galician Union, no opposition group has requested its appearance to explain this agreement. Why? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because they don't care! And when the opposition doesn't want to talk about an agreement closed by the board, no doubt some is because we're faced with an agreement that's positive for Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] And they're not interested in talking because they have nothing to say. They could speak well of this agreement, but they're not capable, they're not interested. And, I say, although it wasn't about the Galician board, at least speak well of this agreement by the representatives of the workers, of the public employees, who signed this agreement. But they're unable to recognize things that work well. Therefore, before you attend, Mr. Counsellor — as there is nothing else left to intervene because you are not going to let the proceedings pass — you have no choice but to invent criticism to cover the procedure of the intervention. The spokesperson for the Nationalist Block Galego says that this is not a conciliation agreement, but a disconcerting agreement. Mr Bará, this agreement was signed by the unions. I don't know, no union if it forced you to sign this deal. And everyone participated! And even in this agreement, there are gathered proposals and approaches to the unions that finally didn't want to sign this agreement. So the ones who signed it were responsible unions. Mr Bará, you're still in the years of the crisis because you don't want to get out of there, because you can't stand the idea that Galicia had managed to overcome the economic crisis with an orderly account, with the restitution of public employees' rights as soon as possible. And you say, we're not going to pass the page. It's just that you want to continue in the crisis, they're more comfortable there! But fortunately, public employees today have better conditions and better prospects for the future, with stability. [[Murmurs.]] I insist, this is a historic agreement because it involves a transformational change in the Welsh public service. I believe, Mr Bará, that the crisis you have in your political identity, because it really doesn't match what you have in mind with what the public employees of Galicia think. It says things like that the Union has increased its temporality. [[Applause]] Mr Bará, the Galician Union has the lowest rate of time in all of Spain. It was only about 14% ago. And you know what? The Government of Spain has set the goal, in the March Agreement of last year, of achieving a temporality of 8%. For Galicia is more ambitious! President Feijóo and the Fairy Councilman are more ambitious, here it is agreed to achieve a temporality rate of 7%. Let's go ahead forever and you should be proud of that, Mr. Bará, and don't regret it. He says he doesn't bring any better income. Home!, I believe that, today, in the payrolls of public employees it is confirmed that this is a fallacy because the revenues of public employees under this agreement are increasing, that many parts of it are already being implemented. And the restocking rates say they have to be suppressed. Well, but you know this is a matter of state law. And what you have to know -- and you know perfectly well -- is that this Government of Galician Union has always exhausted and stretched to the maximum rates of maximum replenishment that allowed the law of the state. It was always necessary to move in that framework of the Government of Spain, of the state norm, of the basic norm; but the maximum possibilities were always exhausted. There's no reproach to the councillor of Fairy on the subject of that replenishment fee, Mr Bará. And the Socialist Party doesn't like it either, says there's too much triumphalism. Home!, I think the counselor is quite committed, I would be more triumphal yet because the Agreement is like to be more triumphal. It seems that you don't agree, that the Socialist Party doesn't agree with what UGT thinks. UGT has signed this agreement. You don't think so, do you? Are you saying they signed something wrong for the public employees? I think you guys have a problem. And then they're messing with the subject of health. They asked for the health counsel's presence. Mr. Villoslada, the Health Counsellor came to a health investigation commission promoted by you, and you didn't attend that commission. So don't say now that the health advisor doesn't show up. Those who do not appear are the Socialist Party, failing to fulfil their obligation as a parliamentary group. [[Applause]] And it's critical that we say it's a historic agreement. Of course, you, as history, have another conception. For you, history was that agreement — a disastrous agreement — of Rodríguez Zapatero, President Zapatero, reducing the salary to public officials forever — not temporarily, forever. That's what you understand by historical agreement. We have another conception of historical agreements. We see it in a positive sense, and you cling to the negative sense of the historical agreements of the Socialist Party. He says the 8th May motion agreements have not been complied with. Rotary falsity! You read the deal! You're paying your respects... read the deal. If you want, then I'll tell you, point by point, where parts of the agreement is being fulfilled the May 8 motion last year that we agreed here. By the way, you were already embracing that state agreement, and you criticize this agreement when much of this agreement is the application, development, of many measures that allow you to launch the March agreement last year that you praised. Do you realize the contradiction? He's criticizing something that triggers what you praise. That posture is not congruent, Mr. Villoslada. If you agree with the framework agreement, with the agreement agreed with the unions in March last year, you must agree at least on most of the content of the agreement today presented by the advisor. The truth is, I don't know where they're going. Besides, say it without any noise. It criticizes the deal and says that the pay increase comes... this is very interesting, very interesting, because it says, "You don't hang up medals, Counsellor, because this increase in pay is not your business, this comes from a March deal last year. It's actually a Rajoy government deal. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So you do me a favor and tell President Pedro Sánchez that the increase in the salary of the officials let him be signed by the Rajoy Government, because he seems he doesn't know it and wants to sell it as an increase of the Socialist Government right now. [[Applause]] Then tell him that you know, that the salary increase comes from last year, that he was signed by the Rajoy government. Mr. Villoslada, I don't have much more to tell you. And the spokesperson for En Marea, frankly, with all due respect, I don't think she's reading the deal. He doesn't read the deal because he starts talking about other matters that don't come up with the story. I think it started well, saying that the climb is positive, and adds: insufficient. Man, yes, we all want more! But very insufficient must not be when, after many months... since it was signed and published last March's agreement at the state level, the councilman and his team have stepped into work and negotiated with the unions. This didn't come out on Christmas. This has been negotiating with the unions for many months; some have come down from the car but others have followed to the end, and this is the result of a negotiation in which this agreement has been reached. Those who signed this agreement consider it sufficient. So, I think you're disenfranchising workers' representatives, I think you shouldn't go that way. I insist that he speak again about "rights theft." There was no theft of rights here, there was a suspension for an economic crisis and for a law that he was looking for to ensure that public services in Galicia continued to work, and we got it, we got it among all, mainly thanks to public employees. And the councilman of Fairy and the president of the Galician board never tire of thanking them and recognizing the effort they made to the public employees of Galicia. Always, from the beginning, they recognized that effort. And even today the councilman again thanked them for the effort, and he's announcing improvements for staff members to have a career and they can be more encouraged and we all win, because he wins the administration, he wins the officials and he wins the Greeks, he'll have a better administration. It also says that the basic status of public employment is 2007. In fact, since 2007, it was the time of the Socialist Party!, and it had to be a government of the People's Party in Galicia, which ten years later set in motion the professional career. No other government has done so before, ladies and gentlemen. So, finally, on this occasion — if you don't want to believe us — I'm going to read to you what the unions that have signed. Labour Commissions, how do they qualify for this agreement? "Historical pact, the best deal possible." No, they don't laugh because the union says so. "The best deal possible. After ten years of waiting for professional career, this January 1st begins." UXT, what about UXT? This might not like it on some bench, but that's what UXT says. No precedents are found for a wide forecasting process of these characteristics, to return to the temporality rates below 7% in three years. This is not what the People's Party says, the unions say. They're the ones who say it's a historic deal, you don't. And the government is still working, the advisor has already announced more steps that are scheduled to continue...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u43	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u44	...inciding in the development of these agreements. Ladies and gentlemen, I think you're far from reality. I think they should be happy, at least -- I say not to make the ridiculous -- they better let the process go, they don't intervene, because saying things that don't make sense doesn't contribute anything to the political debate, and I don't think that public officials really like what they're listening to.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u45	Thank you, Mr. Moreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u46	For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u47	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. Replica, advisor to Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u48	Thank you again, Mr President, and thanks to each of the speakers. I will try to answer some of the issues in a subject that is particularly dear to me, sensitive, because much of my professional development has been in the field of human resources. Mr Bará, I am very pleased with the shrapnel when after my first intervention I referred to the benches of the People's Party, pointing out how little enthusiasm the words said by me in a more or less sequentially ordered manner provoked in the popular benches... Don't get him wrong. The face is the mirror of the soul. My reflection, of course, a sense of content, but very glad of the agreement we have reached. But studying his face in the first intervention, he really gave the impression that he didn't believe what he was saying, he was really disoriented; that's my perception. And little by little I can tell you about some of the issues I've been pointing out, I suppose not in a universal way, but I'll try to answer you, because many of them have also been brought forward by Mr Villoslada and to a certain extent also by the voicer of En Marea, who also said — I recognize him — that there are positive questions in this agreement. Positive questions, though it is true that, like everything else, it is likely to be improved. There's a first fallacy that worries me. I'm worried when you question the legitimacy of the signing of the agreement, and we've already started with a jugular attack. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] From minorities to two trade unions like UXT and Commissions must be brave! But you have to be braver to not understand what the powers of a staff committee or the staff committee are. It's a question of why there's a statement on staff boards, which is the unique and exclusive matter they have in the field of civil servants, when we're talking about 21,500 public employees. Ask yourself, there are no fools. If we do, the staff committee, that minority you say, would get more than killed. And by the way, these issues are discussed in the staff committee. Let me tell you that your reasoning would be as much as to say that the full Members of Parliament, of each of the Members, of the four Members, have the same powers as the plenary of this House we are talking about today. Don't make shrapnels, don't despise, please, the representation that has reached certain unions and concentrate, please, on what everyone's competences are, who are in the staff committee. So it's a perfectly successful agreement, with whom he wanted to wake up, after much debate. And, by the way, in my first speech too, what became very clear was my thanks, firstly, both UXT and Commissions, and all that remains to be developed and done, which is a lot, because it is truly the antipodes of what we have known for almost forty years in the Greek public service. But at the same time, I also thanked, because there was a real negotiation and contribution in your case, the participation of certain organizations that did not want to sign the agreement; everyone with their problem will have to explain their conditions. There is another mantra that happens to repeat all the time, as is the mantra that it is an agreement — Mr Villoslada to a certain point he referred to... — differently, an agreement that is agreed at the state level. Again it is to confuse the bacon with speed, because the agreement, indeed, as needed by the spokesperson of the People's Party in this matter, is an agreement born of the Rajoy Government, but it is a very busy agreement on competences, in principle, that are state and non-state, that collects very important wage increases in the years 2018, 2019 and 2020, linked to overcoming a crisis stage, when this situation can be achieved, with a very large differential character that leads us to a differential of about 8.70% in wages. And any parameter with another question I'm going to talk about right now, about the IPC theme, etc., is purely coincidence, purely coincidence. True and verifiable recovery, linked to another parameter — as it cannot be otherwise — that is the growth of the Spanish economy, not to promise and pay with "corticoles", as has often been done in Spain. I mean, let's put together the pieces and what we promise we'll be able to do. Therefore, Government Rajoy, agreement practically with all state-wide organizations. But, at the same time, that agreement contains the possibility, with those additional funds--for you, Mr Villoslada, which must be of value. If we put a bit of metric on it, the additional agreements contemplated there, as you know, go from 0.2 to 0.3 in annual terms if they are met -- I'm also going to refer now to compliance -- and as far as I know, Mr. Villoslada, to compare the 0.2 or 0.3 that we bring here today is an exercise of science that has little to do with science, in this mathematical case, when we put a little bit of metric on it. Because speaking of increments of 0.2 or 0.3 in three years, even if they are accumulated, maximum 0.3 in communities like Galicia — not all of them — it turns out that we are talking about that this agreement that we just signed is going to be between 5% and 8%, especially in the lower categories, in the first three years, and they will continue to grow gradually with those who have professional career systems. Link this question to the IPC theme, connect this question to 0.2 or 0.3 additional, you have to have a value but really... let's keep making progress, keep moving forward. So it's a state deal of what we're very proud of for what it means, but I have to tell you that we're far beyond it in the concept of wages but also broadly in everything that's not salary. Let us not disregard the whole 100 percent theme of the recovery of temporary incapacity at most, which we did here immediately in Galicia, as if we wanted any other administration. We do not despise the whole question of conciliation, in which we were already the first autonomous community in Spain in comparable terms, and we continue to be and deepen in this line in which we never produce enough, and that is where we are going to walk. There's another subject that has also been introduced by you, and that has been referred to by several. It's normally a very dear subject for Mr. Lago, but let me refer to you, it's the subject of the IPC. We're going to talk a little bit of pay because — I repeat again — it's good to put figures on the arguments that we all handle, figures that can be officers — it's good, it's very healthy — recognizing that there have been very difficult stages in the crisis, which is going through since 2015, with regard to Galicia at least. But if we do so, when we talk about the wage recovery that has taken place in the General Administration of Galicia, it turns out that the lowest groups in salaries — not in importance — since January 1, 2017 already had the same salaries as they had in 2009, which marked the highest stage. And it affects all groups C2 and professional administrations, the old Group E. It's just a mathematical observation. If we do so, we also see that Group C1 — typically the administrative groups — has their salaries in 2018 above those they had in 2009. But if we do so this year 2019, all the other groups that work in public service have salaries in 2019 -- without counting on what the professional career will be -- above what they had in 2009. If we put all of this on the IPC, it wasn't actually 15%, but if it's close, it's 12%. But it turns out with the professional career, only this year 2019, the lowest groups will reach 109.32% or 109.69%, and so on, almost all over 105%, and of course those in Group A1 and A2 above 103%, when we're talking about 12% in the first year of professional career. Imagine yourself — in three years we are talking about — what the career will mean, in addition to the moment we have at present, without taking into account the increase so important that in fixed and periodic wages there will be for the year 2020, as in my first intervention, with which the IPC, as if it were measured, will be completely exceeded and we will start to be positive for all functional groups, which we hope will be both the jobs they opt for as well as the officials who are now. So there's nothing better than marking a reference period, putting numbers on it and setting whether it's true or not, but obviously all of this is exceeded when we put numbers to the magnitudes that we're predetermined. There's another question you also referred to, Mr Bará, when you again criticized what can't be done with less. Let me tell you something else that in this matter, what you can't do is fool, what you can't do is fool, because what we're doing with a dual system like what we have in Galicia, and with the business cost that means calling certain people workers — within the fifth collective agreement the vast majority but not all, because you know that in entities there are other work regimes too, is paying 7% stupidly. That's bullshit! Do you understand that there are issues that, although they may seem very humble, in the end, if you put them in a pocket, allow other types of development that are much more coherent and that have to do with equal rights and benefits that I believe each professional deserves and, above all, citizens? So I can't match you in that simplistic appreciation that they're doing more with less. You can do more with less. We've done it many times, and we'll follow this never-ending path. Another topic you always resort to, which are new rights, and here they referred to the three. I repeat, the agreement on public employment that we have just signed is new rights, starting with a career. Here was a reference to the Galician Health Service and another full of curses and falsehoods that are being used at this stage, it must be very clear. In Sergas, which means the recovery of a right they had in their general civil service, this is a new right, through the recognition of seriousness, of the interest expressed by every professional, with services rendered today, extraordinary regime, and from the first of January to the next of January, to pick up everyone and every one of the people who today are working or of those who come to work with us. Therefore, a new right of such a thing contained that it was not who. So we must all be grateful to coincide in a diagnosis that is very complicated but always trying to get out positive. Several times reference was made here to the Basic Statute of the Public Service, I think in a wrong way, because the Basic Statute of the Public Service is the possibility of a career of an official character — article 17 seems to me to remember — there is also a reference in Article 19 to the possibility of work, and we, of course, choose a career of an official character to avoid dualism. But what you should also say is that in the basic statute we have been without development for ten or eleven years and there was a government of the PP, there was a government of the PSOE, there is another government of the PSOE... We can't be waiting, especially because autonomous communities have a great capacity to develop all this. By the way, today there are only two autonomous communities of common regime that have something comparable to what we have just established in Galicia, call Valencia and the Balearic Islands. There's no other one! Aragon still goes for the first degree and here we have another question. Let's value what we're doing with all of us, therefore. And man, say how it was said here that Sergas' agreement is better!... Sergas is only recovering what he had, with a 60-40 logical sequence, starting this year. Suppose that all of this is what we're talking about, which is bigger and which is about 2% additional about the lower categories and almost 2% over the next three years for the higher pay categories, is worse than what exists in Sergas, that God comes and sees it! As well as when it comes to temporary staff or temporary staff. The consideration we give him is identical. Of course, Mr Villoslada, we will be very attentive to the issue of judgments relating to the European issue, because, in fact, there are often court rulings; we always accept the rulings of the courts. What I can tell you is that today, in the few races that exist, as I have told you, and also in Sergas, we are working with the same criteria. Your moment will come in the sense that you can pronounce the courts, and we will be the first, as always, to abide by the resolutions that arise from the courts. OPE squirts and official jobs, eliminate replacement rates. But don't you realize that the replacement rates are a state competition, exercised by the government of Mr. Zapatero, Mr. Rajoy and now Mr. Sánchez? Don't you realize that this administration has always moved the interest that we were entering into a paradox, because the autonomous communities, as entities that we provide basic and very dear public services, couldn't we reduce, as it happened in Galicia, which was the autonomous community that kept the most stable staff, staff and stable staff in all the autonomous communities throughout the crisis stage? You don't understand that by providing these services we couldn't rule out troops, and by paradoxing that eventually hiring temporary staff we were allocating resources that could go to other things? We have always been supporters of increasing, but as it does not depend on us, we accept. Yes, our public job offers were every year at the top that legislation allowed us, all!, at the Zapatero stage, at the Rajoy stage and now at the stage of President Sánchez, with an add-on, which we are of the few communities — practically none — that last year, 2018, we had the rest rate at 108%. Why? Because we have fulfilled all the fiscal performance parameters; we have met the deficit; we have met the spending rule, which has sometimes been criticised here in this parliament; we have fulfilled the average payment period and we have fulfilled the debt, as well — very predictably — we will meet for this 2019 and will allow us that increase of 108% that, as a result, can be used in the reference that has been placed here on the table, as it can be in the health field, in the educational field or in the general field, which is what brings us here, because it is a set for the autonomous community of Galicia, and so we will formulate it when its time comes and if it is found that such compliance is one of the benefits that brings us. So let's put in value that for something to do, and in this case to walk by the lowest rate of timeliness in Spain. Again, the metrics that we are told — official data — the only time that has been done in comparative terms, when we spoke of the Stabilisation Plan at the national level for three years, that the autonomous community presenting that 14% to the People's Party representative refers to, Galicia is the comparable community that has the lowest rate of temporality. That fills us with pride, but it doesn't suit us, so we formulate at least that 7% that nobody's formulating in Spain. That's going to do a lot of work on the operating level and it means -- this combined with all the functionalization processes -- that we have to be very agile, fast and simple in formulation, always under the advertising and equality parameters, which are the first, but also under the parameter of capacity and the parameter of merit. That's why we go to opposition contests of a general nature of 40%, recognizing that there's a lot to recover over these years. So in no way can we use the word you've been used here for rickets. The numbers that I said a moment ago mark minimum thresholds, Mr Bará, minimums, there has never been such. But if we look at our age structure, we don't have to be too smart to realize -- that's the first thing that every human resource manager should be set up -- that in ten years 8,500 people who today are working or staff members of the board will retire, and that gives us a very interesting margin of manoeuvre that will be the great opportunity for those people who just left colleges or who are about to leave, who are leaving our schools, perfectly well-trained and motivated, to come and work with us, as I said a moment ago. That's the big chance there is. By the way, Mr Villoslada, there is nothing better than preaching with the example, and when agreements are reached, even in this Parliament, try to fulfill them. When I look back — tell me if I'm wrong — the fulfilment of the approved motion — which was also put forward a moment ago — on May 8, I'm going to refer to the points that I have here pointed out, which I think were six. First point: to establish measures to devote the additional percentage, I just told you. Compare 0.3 at best, every year, to 0.2 of what I'm talking about, is an almost metaphysical daring. Secondly, determine priority sectors. I'll say it again: accomplished. In point 4 of the Concertation Agreement that brings us here today, it is very clear, in the new public services, that these additional rates will go to, that 8%, which is a value that, like Galicia, very few communities will have; today, almost none. Thirdly, the additional rate of stabilisation of temporary employment to all public employment entities, because it is not only the General Administration, which has been fulfilled again. Please read the fifth point of the agreement. And by the way, this change at the state level has been at the courts of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for many months now. So I can't agree with you. Point five, Mr. Villoslada. Number 4, which was to determine the distribution of working hours, is accomplished again. Please read point 6. The 5, recover the payment of 100 percent of IT, completed; point 7. Point 6 is replaced by the following: There's nothing better than putting on the table what we agreed to and trying to do. But in this case last year's motion is fulfilled to 100 percent, according to my collaborators moving me, as I just told you, and I'll leave you when I want all the papers. There's no more to read the Concertation Agreement as well and have the motion next to it. Historical. Historically, we must always consider it in respect of what has been done. There was a government not so many years ago, but there are already some here, who was a bipartisan. The last major public service agreement was signed in 2006. Compare the current public employment agreement with the magnificent agreement that they were able to reach from both PSOE and BNG, and come to compare it to this House, it is necessary to do an exercise of tranquility...! Comparing those increments — then the linear — in its maximum amount, I'm just going to refer to this, with what this agreement means, it's always a trilerism exercise. So we were also talking — you have to say everything because it's not all money — about implementing a professional career system, where is it? So in 2006, I mean, watch out! I didn't even have years to start! I don't mean everybody's guilty. So it was also talking about functionalization. A classic talk of operation in Galicia. This is the right functioning, which is offered to everyone on a voluntary and agile basis. By the way, the staff working through the career, in their first year, and forever, will have an additional 1.55% that was being paid too much to Social Security if we compare it to a fixed official. It all plays, and it all plays in favor of professionals. By the way, in the 2006 Bipartite Agreement of that magnificent one, it turns out that the rate of temporality generated was 8%, and we propose at least 7%, something will be right if we achieve it! If we did, but we're going to try to do it, then we didn't even try; the deal was 2006. The conciliation measures were also envisaged. Compare the conciliation measures that were then contemplated with those that preceded this agreement we had in Galicia, and especially with those we're going to have, again it's just a practice of... I don't explain, I don't explain, but it's good to try to put numbers on the concepts and try to agree on that metric, as I told them. I think we've been in an orderly and humble way for three years — but in humility, please don't look at weakness, I don't have it at all — before any other autonomous community, we've practically been recovering rights, and not all of them are exhausted. I also recognize that they were removed at the time, but very few things are left in the year 2012. As I told you, in the pay issue, when we actually compare and put numbers on the situation that we already had, for some categories in 2017, for others in 2018, for others in 2019, from now on they start to recover positive situations, and when you update this 12% that has not been made of the IPC, they will be overcome in a very short time and in a constant but serious way. We did it, as I told them, before the rest of the autonomous communities, because we were the first community to complete the payment of the famous return of the year 2012. That's what to say. We moved forward for a year about what we had planned for our payment of the extra payment. It was an effort that, as well as it was said here, we asked our public employees — and just like us very few — but that's what allowed us to have the most stable templates in all of Spain. And just like we did fast and agile in 2017 and 2018, today most people already have their payroll with that 2.25 percent, which we hope will be 2.75 percent from July 1st, for us it won't be. By the way, that 2.5 % IPC-related variable is also ahead of us that, if Galicia is out, obviously we'll meet, and something else, that 2.5 percent, which isn't so guaranteed for the Spanish set. Let me also welcome the data from the last EPA, Mr. Lago, of what we've been talking about. Not everything in this world is profitable issues, but all help, and all help from the right reality. For all these years, our job offers have already been told that we exhaust them at every moment, and they are aware that there have been more than 2,000 places offered, that we drive more than eight thousand two hundred in transfer contests, when in other administrations there is no move or a straw. By the way, I am surprised that when we speak to other administrations, especially at the local level, career models are not developed, and if we criticize what we have just commented on. As I am also pleased that you put Parliament on your professional career, when the President of Parliament himself was able to take the initiative and with all our cooperation we were able to try to help in something that is perfectly autonomous. At least when you put on medals, let's have a little care. We have adopted measures of time flexibility and telework for more than 11,000 beneficiaries, who place us as the first in Spain, and we return vacation days and free availability for antiquity, and it turns out that we were also the first in Spain to do so. Why don't we put all this in value, knowing who's got a lot left to do and a lot of things to do to get better? So two fundamental ideas. The recovery stage of rights, I think it's over in Galicia, as the reality points out. We are at the stage of new rights in both wage and other kinds of rights in Galicia, a good stage. And what I like most is also to communicate recognition to all the people who are working in public service in this general case, and above all the great opportunity that from now on will have our people who want to collaborate under the principles of equality, merit and capacity for this year and the following, at least, up to the next ten years. This is going to mean a real transformation of those we know the public function, so I told you, and so they recognize it, that I will always be very grateful to the unions who, in a brave way — and not a minority, Mr Bará — have been able to assume this reality, to leave themselves from strategies of a short-term union character, to have the longer lights, because our citizens deserve the quality services that they have more and more, and what they don't deserve is certain chascarrillos or to take advantage of certain situations as they are occurring in certain areas. And really, if we were to attend where we had to attend in this Parliament and confront numbers, the reality is totally different from that science that many of you have shown. No more, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u49	Thank you, Counselor. Round of clarifications. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u50	Mr. Martínez, speaking of science, you revealed yourself as an expert in quinesia, we didn't know this facet. We wish you a brilliant chance of turning to these issues. Look, we deny the biggest, first, because we're talking about a bad deal or a disagreement, because there's a majority of union organizations that don't endorse this agreement. You also have the merit of agreeing with two union power stations such as the CIG and the CSIF. You say it's for pure interests, but what they did was to criticize and not sign this agreement with arguments and with reasons that we brought here too. Of course, I've already said what Mr. Moreira said that this agreement was signed by responsible trade union organizations. There are responsible organizations, which are the ones who vote in favour of you, and there are those who are irresponsible, who complain that this agreement is discriminatory, that it is unfair, that it is regressive, that it does not recover. Because we also deny that larger one, they don't recover the wage and labor rights that were stripped of during the years of the so-called crisis, which was an excuse for a gigantic student of rights of the working class. That's what the crisis was for! So we're talking about disconcerting, we're talking about disagreement or we're talking about a bad deal. Counsellor, you're talking about the replacement rates as if something completely alien to the People's Party. It is that you approved it, the People's Party, ruling in Madrid, Mr. Rajoy in 2012, with the Law of stability and with all the regulations you came after. Where were they then? Or were they not parties to this kind of regressive measures against the interests of public services, public service and civil service? You are responsible for those decisions and for applying them in a submissive, helpful and gentle way here in Galicia. Of course, in addition to the data, it's powerful, and it's IGE data. Look, career officials, down from 6,166 between 2009 and 2018. And at the same time, the increase in temporality from 1,884 to 4,075, 116%. You have thus disproportionately increased temporality, and now you come here and you want to assume that you're going to lower temporality when you've been imposed by your judgments. Anyway, every stick that holds his candle! Then, with regard to the restorative rates, we have brought here an agreement from this Parliament which literally says that it urges the Council of Galicia to urge the Spanish Government to eliminate the restorative rate in the 2019 budgets, corresponding to each autonomous community the competence to determine the number of squares to be included in the annual public employment offer. This is what the BNG has defended and what the whole Parliament has approved. But you are not complying with this agreement, because, as you can see, you accept the situation as it is and you have done nothing to comply with this agreement. I'm not going to stop much on payroll anymore because I don't have a lot of time, but the unions also questioned this. But I'm going to stop for a little bit more, because it seems to me like a transcendent question and you've also paid a lot of attention to the question of career. Look, this is what the majority unions say, which have published an agreement, a communiqué, which says: "The proposal of the General Negotiation Bureau was rejected by the IGC and CSIF unions, which hold the overwhelming majority on that table and the five Boards of Staff Officials, who represent around 10,000 staff members of the Galician Union, for the following reasons: because this professional career system entails a comparative aggravating and discrimination with the staff of other public administrations, and even in the case of Galicia, with Sergas — I told him too — and more with the Parliament of Galicia. It suggests a comparative aggravating and discrimination against the staff of the Sergas administration and services. He develops a professional career where his staff can access him in an extraordinary way at two degrees in a period of less time than the staff of the Galician Union. It sets limits on temporary and interim personnel, by preventing them from accessing an extraordinary quadrant, when Sergas and also the Parliament of Galicia agreement do not have this restriction. And it establishes intolerable discrimination between career officials themselves in the case of professional career wages." Finally, Counsellor, that we do not endorse this agreement because it seems discriminatory to us, because it seems unfair to us, because it does not seem a bad agreement, because it does not recover lost employment — you are aware of totally unreal and makeupd public job offers, and we have already seen in the case of public education as in the internal promotion only less than ten percent of the markets offered — and, above all, because the rights eliminated and abolished during the so-called crisis, which was a rights policeman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u51	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u52	President, thank you. Mr Moreira, I believe that we must be able to distinguish the scope of collective bargaining and the scope of political debate in this House. Making this bidirectional union-party relationship can be understood on one occasion, but I think it is not precisely to respect the political framework and to know how to break the framework of collective bargaining, the framework of trade union organisations. [[Applause]] Those readings could also be made about the People's Party and we don't, we don't. What we are saying is that the Agreement, Counsellor, is absolutely necessary, what happens is that the Agreement is absolutely insufficient. Of course, the May motion we approved in this House is collected in the Agreement as it announces the points on which to work, but if one makes a journey through each of these points in the first part of the Agreement, most of them, or most of them, are not concrete. Yes, you can designate Mr. Counselor, but they're not specific. Additional funds do not specify which policies will apply the additional funds. They're not specific, Counselor. As far as public employment is concerned, the work of the follow-up committees is concerned. In the area of stability in public entities linked to the autonomous administration, the verb can be used, there is no greater concretion. When it comes to working and conciliation, it's said that there will be possible new agreements, or this will be discussed in the first quarter of 2019. All that is collected is the literality of the second agreement. As far as functionalization is concerned, the only thing we say is that, with the delay that this process is taking forward towards a single model that I insist we share, and we know experiences of success in this sense, we know them perfectly, what if we need all self-employed employees towards that single model is that it does not delay and that it takes forward, of course, with the necessary guarantees. But there's also some other question that I'm going to point out to you, and it's that at all I can share when recovering the 100 percent benefit in situations of temporary disability if you literally say it's the most beneficial option. There are many public administrations, in the context of public administrations in Spain, which are applying the recovery of IT benefits to 100 percent since the summer of last year under the March Agreement. Why does Galicia have to wait so long? So, I don't think we can admit it, nor do public employees admit that mantra in Galicia, because it's a mantra or, as you say, it's a fallacy. In that sense, speaking of falsities or speaking of mantras — by the way, the recovery of extra payments was forced by judgment, we all know perfectly well — there is an obligation by clear judgment that we should take forward, and those who work in different public administrations so that we have all done so. I mean, it's not a medal that no public manager has to hang. Sometimes, more than the part of the articulation of the normative texts or agreements, we must read the part of the explanatory statements, because they translate which will be expressed, and, in that sense, there are three points on the exhibition part of the Agreement which I would like to note in this final intervention. One. First of all, because I believe that none of the autonomic public employees admits — as I said before — that kind of neo-lingual or Orwellian version of transmitting reality. Because it is not true — as it has always been said — that staff in the service of the Public Service of Galician Union contributed significantly and directly to economic recovery. The autonomic staff don't contribute to anything, the autonomic staff the only thing he did was suffer the cuts taken forward. I mean, the way things are being said or the way stories are being moved is very important when it comes to transmitting a reality or another reality. [[Applause]] The reality is that the cuts that have suffered since 2012 have been a clear tax on the set of autonomous public services. Of course they contributed to matching the bills! but you can't talk about sacrifice, the sacrifice was obviously taxed. There's a couple more things I wanted to talk to you about. First of all, we are talking — so I suppose we have to talk — about the role and working conditions of public employees to be dignified. And then, in the exhibition part, to finish, it's said that "Galice has gone forward with the pay adjustments..." -- and I literally read -- "...beyond those demanded by the basic regulations of the state." This literally says the Agreement and I think we should remember it. I insist, trade union organizations, the most representative and the least representative but all legitimate, have their arguments to sign this agreement or not. But in order to take a new step forward in Galicia's public service, I insist that this conciliation agreement should be broader, because you know, Counsellor, that there are certain measures, for example, in the field of professional career systems, where the social legitimacy base of the Agreement is weak to carry it forward, and in that sense they must deepen in the capacity for conciliation. Finally, Counsellor, they talk about temporality, which is a critical fact, of course, in the field of the quality of public services. I transmit the official data nothing more; they beat us if it's any other data that the Government handles. Turning to the latest official data, which is the Staff Statistical Bulletin serving the public administrations of the Ministry's Central Staff Register, tells us how in January 2011 there were 89,219 self-employed public employees; i.e. counsellorship, non-university teaching...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u53	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u54	...health institutions and administration of justice. In January 2016 there are 86,499; in July 2018 — last official data — 86,180 — there is still no recovery of public employment in Galicia. Non-university medicine. Own data from the Autonomous Community, Galician Union, at the Transparency Portal. I refer to the official data published in this case by the German Government. Of the 30,000 non-university teachers, 4,300 are interim, and we don't count the teachers there...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u55	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u56	...of contract less than six months. 14,4 % temporality in non-university teaching. Health — health institutions, Counsellor. Of the 34,500 troops, 9,000 have a temporary character — i.e. 25.8 % of temporality —...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u57	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u58	...of that 7,000 are sanitary...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u59	Thank you, Mr. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u60	...and 2,000 non-sanitary.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u61	Your time is over, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u62	This is the data...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u63	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u64	...Mr. Counselor. It's over, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u65	Thank you. No, time's up. Look at the clock, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u66	Welcome to public employment reform policies, but they still have a lot of work...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u67	Thank you. Look at the clock, please! That's it!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u68	...to comply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u69	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Torregrosa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u70	Thank you very much. Restoring collective bargaining — which must be that, collective, non-partial — is the first step towards achieving — we hope — lost rights. Thanks to the citizen mobilization, the change in state political direction, the union pressure of workers and public workers, thanks to all this, we can agree that we are at the beginning of an agreement, but at least if you're talking about it. But we also understand that this negotiation is not over. In fact, accompanying the opinion of the unions — including those who signed it — there is a follow-up commission to continue progressing in the recovery of the seizure. I mean, if we don't use the word "stolen," we'll say "stolen," which means more or less the same thing. It means, to misappropriate, taking advantage of the weakest of the social structure. We want to add to all of this, Counselor, that we think there are alternatives that would be more fair to employees and public employees. Among these alternatives that we have already proposed would be regaining the lost purchasing power. Against the 1,75 % proposed for this year — which is not like an IPC in 2018 of 1.7% — we propose an increase of 2.7%; and the rise aims to recover, over the next four years, 13.5% lost in the last eight years. Definitely eliminate the replacement rate for all areas of the public sector. An extraordinary public job offer for the return of the job destroyed since 2009 and facing the current challenges; this OPE for the most urgent administrative areas must be immediate. To look explicitly at the 35-hour workday, as well as at the obligation to pay 100 percent of the fixed wages due to temporary disability; no one should cost money to be sick. Do not logically link wage increases to GDP, as if they were part of a company or shareholders. The creation of a fund to achieve a raise in staff salaries that are most urgently needed. On the one hand, those paid squares with less than a thousand euros a month; on the other hand, those performed in places where wage differentials are harsher than other public administrations performing the same functions in the same physical spaces. By setting an example, I insist that we present in our group an amendment to the Social Action Fund's budgets to resupply it with EUR 1.5 million from its origin. For all this, I think there are many things to do, even though we think this is the beginning — we hope — of a path. Thank you very much. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Torregrosa. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Moreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u72	Thank you, Mr. President. It was said here that the replacement rate made her a government of the People's Party in 2012, and that's not true. The replacement rate was established by the Government of Rodríguez Zapatero, which left the replacement rate to zero in 2010. That's what happened. With the passage of years, when it began to set a higher replenishment rate, the Galician Union was always at its peak, and continues to go on at its most. Mr Bará, you keep saying that this is discriminatory and regressive, but it doesn't explain why. Are you talking about the subject of acting officials? You're in a huge mistake. Look, Immigrants aren't out of the race, they've been in the first grade of the race since January 1st this year. No job force stays out of career either. He also says that the Sergas professional career system is better than that of Junta, but that's fake. What happens is that the access system is the same, on the other hand, the interim and temporary work will cease to be marked by the wide job offer offered by the agreement and the beneficial access through the opposition contest. It also makes you understand that the value of degrees is better in Sergas than in Union. False. What happens is that you can't compare what a board official charges to start his career and what a worker covers, for example, the health care he started more than ten years ago; it's not the same, that's a fallacious comparison. And there's no blackmail from the workers either. It must be borne in mind that basic status restricts careers to careers. Here's what we're doing on the part of the Galician board is offering the possibility to operate on the staff so that, among other things, you can access this benefit of professional career. Mr Villoslada has already clarified the Counsellor, point by point — I understand perfectly — as if they are meeting the points of the motion agreement which was approved here on 8 May last year. On the other hand, In Marea here he's been bluffing for a long time, Mrs. Torregross. You might not have been here at that time, but here In Marea began at its time with the theme of continually repeating that Law 1/2012 was repealed, and finally they realized that, if they were requesting the lifting of the suspension of the convention and the complete drafting of the law, they were lifting the suspension of the plus of the former high office. And then I remember perfectly how there was a moment when they had already asked for the whole agreement to be lifted except for the plus of the high charges. Of course, it wasn't right for you to put yourself back on the table that would re-establish the plus of the high charges, so they changed their claims. But in addition to the high office he was suspended by a Government of the People's Party. Law 1/2012 also served so that no executive could have a higher salary than the President of the Union; and you insisted on violating this law. Here it was said — the counselor said — that Galicia was the first to return the extra payment. Do you know what Mr. Villares said — who is not here now — about the evolution of the extra when he was a candidate for Galician Union? He said: "This demonstrates once again the inability of a ruler who uses public money to pay for his electoral campaign." He said it in reference to the president of the board. And he added, "He did it must know that people know he's cheating on it, that under the good manager's figure he's masking merely electoralist proposals, and I don't think people are going to let themselves buy for a money shower announced to a month of election." That's what the Tide Spokesman said when he was returning the extra pay. In short, what I mean is that during the crisis, public servants were forced to make a huge effort, and it's fair to recognize them. The opposition parties, what did they do? They've been limited to putting obstacles and criticizing destructively everything they've done. I don't know why, it must be because at best some parties — for example the Socialist Party — have another conception of public employment policy. I think they're more about family ties, plug into brother-in... I think that's the public employment policy that the Socialist Party defends. We do not defend that public employment policy, Mr Villoslada. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Counsellor, you have had to listen here to unfair, unfounded criticisms, and the fact that today you can present this agreement proves that you and the Galician Union have been on the right track, ensuring the sustainability of Galician public services despite the noise that formed and that continues to form the opposition. They also say that there is a reduction in troops, that there is no stability -- look, during the Galician crisis it was the community that kept its number of troops more stable, and the drop was 0.6%, half as much as the average of the autonomous communities, which was 1.2%. And while Galicia kept its stable staff, other communities -- such as the Andalusian Board -- have 16,500 public workers less than in 2008. You compare who was responsible, who kept stability, and who didn't keep it. So, I think we should be proud of this agreement, even though you didn't help at all that this went forward and that public services were maintained at the most difficult time. But the Greeks are smart, they knew who they should trust, President Feijó, and today the data, ladies and gentlemen, endorse President Feijó's management. And they'll continue to improve that data, but not by chance, but because things have been done right, and the Greek people are never wrong.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u73	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u74	Therefore, thank you, Counselor. Thank you for your good work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u75	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. Close the show, Consecutor of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u76	Thank you again, Mr. President. We'll try to keep the schedule. Mr Bará, there is one thing that can't be repeated long enough to consolidate itself, especially when there are people in front of us who are fighters and who are given to us. Not by saying certain formulations that trade unions make, you have to think they're all true. I'm not going to use the word "liar," I'm just saying that the good that the Administration has, and in general almost all of Spain and throughout Galicia, is that people are all much bigger, we all know how to read, and there's nothing better than reading the agreements that come to us. The last published — as was said here too — with the gift of opportunity. Trying to get faster now if we criticize the gift of opportunity, as was yesterday's Official Journal of Galicia, where the agreement is being reached. There's no more to read it and there's no more to read what the agreements in Sergas are to compare one and the other, to which collectives take etc., and to see what it's to get back a right or what it's a right to be greater. From there, everyone who decides, please. And when everyone looks at whether they go to three or two years, four or three years, that they look at percent what it means, that we all know how to make a very simple division, and then we'll get to certain agreements. From there, everyone freely, freely. But the good thing about it, especially in the administration, is that people are very prepared and all public employees can read and write. Mr. Villoslada, some of the issues are called into my attention. Home!, I think we all progress properly. It's always good to look at official data, but it's one thing: the data that marks is a starting point, we can discuss something about it, it's a starting point; the important thing is that we're already here in another phase, which is the stabilisation phase, 2018, 2019, 2020, at most a collection in 2021, to get to that 7%. You keep that data, please, and from the next few weeks you'll look at the new offers, if they're bigger, whether they're the minimum ones I've been going forward or not and if they're running fast, which is what we have to do, and simpler among all of them. Under the parameters of advertising, equality, merit and capacity, eh!, nobody is wrong!, nobody is wrong!, that in the administration there is only one entry door, the one in front, not the one in the back. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] By the way, when it comes to certain questions of the replacement rate, which I have already addressed to you that it was to the authorities of this autonomous community what refers to entities, it is also envisaged in the agreement, and one of the entities — which some union does not like either, by the way — is the Consortium of the Welfare Service. Only the rate of interminence and eventuality manifested by the Consortium of Equality and Welfare is of similar calibre that makes nonsense to everyone else. We're talking about approximately 1,850 people, about a group of 3,000 that in entities there can be, and in a temporal nature; that's what we're talking about. So there's nothing better than preaching with the example. In certain matters that you have introduced from the most political formulation of certain issues, this one who speaks to you has nothing to hide. I know you have a way of thinking as legitimate as mine at least, but I will continue to defend my positions and sometimes they are used. Mrs. Torregrosa, look, look, look... all right, woman, but there are certain issues that are not the same everywhere in Spain. I have once said that in this Parliament, the good thing that the Autonomic Administration has in Galicia — in Galicia, I don't know anywhere else, the Autonomic Administration in Galicia — is that for normal, complete days — we will discuss and you have to understand what you call 35 or what I call 35 or 37 and a half — for complete newspapers in Galicia there are no wages of 1,000 euros a month, that's the first. That happens in other autonomous communities that have just been lost, as at present, when last year they said they were going to try to see that there was no one who had a full day of 1,000 euros. In Galicia that doesn't exist, theme number one. And theme number two, too. Please do not refuse to link certain issues to the increase in GDP. What I'm telling you is that in the agreement we've just signed, in your salary component, which is very large, there's no such link. So it's very good to come up with certain issues that can serve here as in La Rioja, but you will understand that this reality is not the one that brings us here today. Here we are talking about very high percentage increases that are not linked to GDP, and this one is not going to refuse to link to GDP certain issues that have allowed us to get out of the crisis, and that is how we are. And look, let's not wake up. Just some data, some data, and I'm going to put data on things. With everything we like or don't like certain people who were already here, we've been there for 13 years without an agreement of this magnitude — as a general rule — for public service. We're talking about 21,500 professionals and their families who are affected by this agreement. We have at least guaranteed increases, without the professional career, of 8.5% between this year 2019 and 2020. Tell me if there's no recovery in terms of IPC or any comparable. And we'll continue. It's twenty-four years of ordinary character, and of extraordinary nature many less. Any cost and financing parameters for the autonomous community regarding the additional funds is that we go!, it can't stand comparison or multiplied by ten, no less! 93% will be the rate of stability, and few administrations in Spain will achieve it. E 4,300 is the minimum number of jobs offered in the years 2019 and 2020. A hundred percent of IT doesn't count as running as we were. And 100 percent of public employees will also see their improved working conditions. New rights with certainty. So this agreement, which was what brought me here today, is not a deal anymore, but it's the most important one in recent years, and it's going to be very important, perhaps transcendental, for both public employees and self-government and citizens themselves, because we will have better trained, better prepared people, more interested in the cross-sectional initiative, and that will result in better public services. From the very first moment we wanted to go with all the trade union organizations, in an accelerated process over the last few months. First we analyzed and diagnosed what we had in our hands, and then we prioritized, and then we agreed on the right instruments to incorporate those new rights that I was referring to a moment ago. I believe that this is an example of the usefulness of social dialogue and collective bargaining, so I want to thank again for the responsibility and the height of the look of the trade unions and also for the work and approach them during negotiations to the rest of the trade union organizations. We are faced with a real transformation of public service, because Galicia needs a modern public function in this twenty-first century, where we will have better pay for its employees, with greater stability in its workplace, with greater equality and equity in its working conditions, with greater guarantees of training, motivation and professional recognition, with more opportunities for access to the administration in the coming years and with better conditions of reconciliation. It also provides certainties for public employees who already work in the administration, because they have a right path to stability and better wages and working conditions. Citizens who want to prepare themselves for public service know that in the coming years there will be a huge opportunity to work in the self-government. And new challenges too, because we're dealing with something that has never been done in the General Administration of Unity. Reiterate: a real transformation, which is a challenge for those who have the responsibility to represent the workers and also a very great challenge for those who have the responsibility to manage from the administration. I'm done, ladies. They come very good years for public service performance and we want the government to be at the forefront of the necessary transformation it needs in order to provide a public service according to the moment in which we live. That's why we bet for a loyal and constructive dialogue that generated consensus for Galicia to achieve a global pact that can certainly be a reference even to other communities, some other autonomous community and municipality. Thank you very much. It's a pleasure.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u77	Thank you, Counselor. [[Mrs. Torregrosa Sanñudo asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Torregrosa, what do you want the word for? Excuse me, give a voice to Mrs. Torregrosa's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u78	I need to make a clarification of what the counsellor said. Regarding the signed document of the agreement, on page 5...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u79	No, but that's part of the...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u80	...1,50 % made more than 0,25 % variable linked to compliance...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u81	That's part of the show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u82	...of the target of GDP growth in 2017.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Torregrosa. It's not working, it's done. Thank you. [[Mrs. Torregrosa Sanñudo speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, no. Sorry, they have another mechanism to do that. There are other initiatives. There are other initiatives for that. There are other initiatives for that. It makes him come to me, there's no problem, and I pass it on to the counsellor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But there are other initiatives, that's not the debate. Yeah, we all have to read. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. Developmental modification of the plenary session
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u84	Third point of the agenda. There's a change. As you know, it's not a show now but a motion, two motions. G.P. motion. of En Marea, at the initiative of Mr Francisco Casal Vidal, on the policy of the Government of Greece in relation to consumer information on electricity tariffs
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u85	There are amendments. One who introduced the Socialist Parliamentary Group and one from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u86	To formulate the motion you have the word Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u87	Good morning. We've talked a lot about this, but there's no way to solve it. In this motion we are going to talk about the lack of sufficient information from the citizenry about the prices of light and what the Galician Union should do. A lack of information that implies an illegitimate transfer of household incomes to electricity that could exceed 200 million euros a year in Galicia, this is the dimension of the matter we're dealing with. And the worst thing is that it could be corrected in a rather simple way and with very contained budgets. Profitability for citizenship would be very important, but prejudice for electricity would be similar. We think that there is the key to not implementing the measures that we are calling for in this motion. In the full past, in the Mr. Counsellor's response to our interpellation, he came to say that the Council of Galicia had a strategy of information to the citizen in these respects. The data you provided were clearly children in relation to the dimension of the problem. He said that talks were developed that were attended by two thousand six hundred people in four years. And as a comparative data, we can see the influx of energy information points from the municipalities of Madrid or Barcelona. The two thousand six hundred people are the ones who attend there every month, being the most acceptable services on the part of the citizenry, because it is clearly the interest of the people. We will compare two thousand six hundred people attending the talks organized by the Board in four years against the two thousand six hundred monthly consultations at the energy information points in the municipalities of Madrid or Barcelona. He also told us about the ninety municipal consumer information offices, but the reality is that, in order for them to be really effective in this area, they would have to have specialized staff; that is, the information would have to be much more complete and personalized. It's the real way people can save money from the information they get. And let's go to the data, because the Galician board often says they do, they do, they do... many headlines... they actually go through the job issues, if we add up all the direct and indirect jobs that are created every day in Galicia on the front pages of certain newspapers, in Galicia it's not that there was a full job, that they would have left jobs. Let's see the reality, the specific data that Mr. Counsellor didn't mention the other day. If it is true that the information is sufficient, given that the regulated market is without discussion, no one can discuss it, the most advantageous for the homes, why are 150,000 of these homes a year in Galicia if they are moving on to the free market, and in many cases without knowing it? This is done by massive marketing campaigns, which have no contradiction on the part of the Administration, despite the fact that this issue has already been included in a royal decree since October. On the other hand, time discrimination is the most advantageous tariff, nor can anyone argue it. In fact, the director of the Galego Consumption Institute clearly recognized him in Commission 6th, but in Galicia only 6% of the homes against, for example, 94% of the homes in Germany. Why are electric commercialists not interested in people finding out that hourly discrimination would benefit more than 95% of their homes? Well, it's very clear, because marketers buy energy with time discrimination, if they can then sell it to most subscribers, for fourteen hours, for a price of 45% higher, because a lot of money that goes to their pockets! That they do it is completely logical, but there would have to be a counterbalance from the Administration. In particular in this case, the Royal Decree of October 2018 also obliges marketers to explicitly put in the receipt how much the subscriber would pay if he was in time discrimination. This is clearly not being complied with, it is a law that is not being complied with, and as far as we know so far, the Galician Consumer Institute has not opened any investigation into this matter. Another cover-up. In Galicia there are 24,092 large families. As you know, all large families have the right to the social bond, and it's also the easiest condition to demonstrate and very quickly process, simply leading the Family Book. Well, in Galicia, only 9,678 have the social bond; only 40% of those who would be entitled to it. This, in our view, shows that the absence of information from the Greek consumers of electricity is an obvious reality, even though the advisor the other day denied it and that is why they continue to reject all the initiatives we have been presenting repeatedly to develop campaigns and initiatives with an intensity and budgetary allocation proportional to the problem and to ensure that it is solved. Initiatives that should go far beyond mere information on tariffs, aimed at advising on actions to improve energy efficiency in households, actions to reduce consumption, social bonus, detection of energy poverty, etc. For example, the report just published by the Government of the municipality of Madrid is a very clear reference to what could be done here too to have a very clear reflection of what is the reality of energy poverty. The other day the advisor made it clear: we're doing it right, it's okay, people have all the information... although the data makes it clear that it's not. In Marea we continue with their campaign to supply what the Government should do, and in the hundreds of people who come throughout each month to all the talks we are giving, we continue to reflect the same figures: 80% of people don't know what contract or tariff they have in their homes; 90% don't know if they are subscribed to the regulated market or the free market; 80% don't know the advantages of hiring the hourly discrimination rate; and almost 100 percent don't know whether the contracted power is the right one for their home. Obviously, you've already spoken at the first point on the agenda of this full-time that there are much more important things to get the light down, but really these subjects are so simple to comply with that it's incredible that a government like the Government of Galicia, which says it defends consumers and citizens of Galicia, don't put them into action immediately. On the contrary, there's a tremendous cynicism. I don't know if they believe the mishap, the fake news that you and Mr. Ribera are putting in motion, if they don't get rid of their numbers. They're scandalized by the gas oil tax office. Do you know how much gas oil taxation comes up? Do you really know? They'll know, won't they?Oh, my God! Four centimeters the liter. That's what they know, four centimeters of the liter. You know what the average consumption of a family is, how many liters does it consume on average a month? Eighty. They'll know that too. And 80 times 0.04, how much is it?: EUR 3.2. That's the impact of the extra cost on the increase in tax on gas oil. This is a scandal for you. On the other hand, an average consumer, of being on the regulated market to be on the free market, would save between 6 and 9 euros a month, almost three times more. Being in time discrimination means saving between 10 euros in the most normal cases, up to 40 euros a month in case of electrical heating; that is, between three and ten times as much as gas tax. But, of course, gas oil tax for the state is going to improve public policies, to improve social policies, to finance the energy transition, and that sounds like a scandal to you. However, in the case of electricity, extracosts that triple or almost multiply by ten what the four cents of the rise in fuel tax don't seem like a scandal to them. Why don't you think it's a scandal? Maybe it's because they go to the electric pockets. The truth is, they should clarify their interests. Is it a scandal of 4 cents or 3.2 euros a month — and if anyone can beat it, that brings the data — that would put any family under the gas oil, against 10, 15, 20, 30 or 40 euros a month for not having enough information to actually hire the best electric fare? Seeing what data they can provide. To all this, we present a motion in which we propose the creation of energy information points, in which types of municipalities, collaboration with Fegamp, the development of truly ambitious information campaigns, change the terms of power and legally regulate everything, that the Galego Consumption Institute expounds everything already contained in Royal Decree 15/2018 of 5 October 2018. Of all this then I will speak in the amendments, but, I say, gentlemen of the People's Party, less cynicism. You can't scandalise by a climb that will improve the possibility of financing social services and the energy transition and instead pass and profile when money goes to power companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u88	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Before we continue the debate, we greet the students of the cycle of Administrative Management and Commercial Activities of the center of Caldas de Reis, who are accompanying us today. Welcome to Parliament. And now yes, you have the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u89	Good afternoon. Welcome to our guests, too. It is true, as Mr. Casal said, that this is a matter of what we have discussed enough in this chamber but we share that it is an absolutely important issue, therefore, we thank you for bringing it back. Even more in this context, because now that in recent weeks the People's Party has been a little untied with its sudden pro-auto-government spirit that is almost stifling independence, and that is almost a little undisturbed with the help of Vox and Citizens, it is good that an initiative is being brought to us that reveals the absolute lack of commitment of the Greek Government to developing those competences that are their own and that it has condemned them to ostracism, as is the point of consumption. I would like to quote the status of autonomy of Galicia, Title II, of Galicia's competences already in our hands, Article 30.4, consumer and user defence. But still, it's evidence that they don't develop this normative capacity that Galicia has and that they've totally condemned ostracism at the Galician Institute of Consumption and little exploited the possibilities that would fit. And that's something very serious on the part of a government, but even more so when we're talking about an area like energy, which so many problems are giving so many people. It's one of the areas, if you shut up, along with mortgages, financial transactions and so on, of the most sensitive ones, but in that area we also had recent examples of the thread of the preferences, of the ground clauses or other issues in which the abandonment of the German Government was also noted. In this case, the conclusion we draw from BNG is that they do not develop these competencies. First, because we see by experience how little interest they have in doing so, and secondly, because they are also interested in the particularities of the electricity sector. The root problem is a fundamental issue, which is the configuration of this large electric oligopolie and the complicities that it then has in government apparatus, so there is behind political interests that have covered that electric oligopolie and which, therefore, explain the lack of effort, in this case, of this community, but we have also seen it in other areas, in something apparently harmless because it would be to contribute — we always say that the information is power — to which the neighborhood had more tools to protect itself and not be seized almost by the armed hand, as often happens by the electrics. I want to remember a sector that was fined by CNMC, by courts, at the same time that we saw ministers moving from their government halls to business boards, or other unfortunate photos like the beloved embrace of Iberdrola by our Mr. President of the Galician Union. And, of course, with this crop broth, the reality of everyday life is made easier for any neighbor, because getting an electricity bill and being able to understand it is almost an experience of science fiction. It is a great darkness, which has an important part in how the invoice conformation process is set up, but the truth is that there are no instruments for this to go in another direction, neither in the area of regulation of the energy sector, as we saw in the debate of the first hour of the morning, nor since the defense of consumers themselves. Since the BNG we have presented to this proposal in Marea a number of amendments, but in any case we will also support, even if they are not accepted, the initiative because it seems to us to take a step forward. On the one hand, those that affect points 1, 2 and 3 are simply a matter of referring to our legal framework for the protection of consumers and that the Galician Union must work together to enable local authorities to develop their powers, because I already fear that the response of the People's Party will be two great culprits. On the one hand, the central government, which is now evil. On the other hand, the municipalities, because it's the strategy of the People's Party. If there's a problem in this country they have to fix the Town Councils or some external agent, never go with them and tell them the story. And on the other hand, we propose that you cooperate with the existing OMIC network, with some provincial entity such as Faepac in the Coruña, or also with that great work that consumer associations do, simply in order to rationalize the map of the attention that may exist, and we also share that budget need that Mr. Casal spoke of. Finally, we replace the last points, because some of the issues cited will be included in the October 2018 decree that removed the Central Government. We think that in that royal decree there are some questions that are interesting and that the role of the Galician Union will be to monitor and explore if that is being fulfilled. I share with Mr. Casal that many things don't. I've checked my last bill of light, I'm a PVPC consumer, and I'm not being informed of what would be the price I would pay with another time slot and other, to set an example. And there are also questions about whether or not we're meeting the ban on looking for customers at the cold door, a lot of issues on paper that start to be in legislation. There's a chance, but Galicia has to have a proactive role to see if this is done, and if not, what matters must be improved, and to address the central government or create instruments of itss that enable us to exploit that role of assuming competence in consumer defence, beyond being expected and saying that we have a Galician Consumer Institute and we just have to comply with it, because it's true that, while you're still installed in conformity, there are many people who live in your home day by day behind bars by the electricians. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u91	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. First, welcome our guests from Caldas de Reis. I want to frame this debate, which is, in fact, a continuation, to some extent, of what we are debating in the morning, in this policy without complexes of the Spanish rights in relation to the society to which they want to come. A US Treasury Secretary with Bil Clinton, Lawrence Summers, who was a leading economist at the World Bank and a professor at Harward University, said something very relevant about what is happening in the current economy, and is that there are, on the one hand, huge corporate benefits, which in good logic should assume a very high investment demand, with types of interest — the price of money — practically zero, which means there is no such demand for investment. What did you mean by that? This meant that we were turning the productive economy into a profitable economy, into an income-making economy, not from the productive field, but from the field of intermediation or, to a large extent, lobbying -- that is, from those companies or economic agents -- we think that they could also be trade unions, finally, economic agents -- that they would take advantage of their market position to obtain those incomes. How is this maintained? It is supported by two central elements. On the one hand, the process of business concentration, and on the other hand, the complicity of political power. That's exactly what happened in the Spanish electric system in the last few decades, after its privatization process, and there are certainly two reasonable ways — although the word is a bit strange — to derail the economy. The first is, of course, fighting and intensifying in favour of competition policies. It's been said that I'm not talking about anything revolutionary or interventionist, quite the opposite. I'm talking about proper regulations to get an economic competition in which all agents play with the same letters. The second, which has the most relevant political dimension, would try — as it were — to protect the weakest elements of this economic chain normally with public policies. This is the scheme. I repeat again, Professor of Harward, World Bank, Government of the United States even though with the Democratic Party, nothing revolutionary; Marxism-Leninism was far away. Today and yesterday we have just seen two elements of how political elites extract resources in a legal and illegal way. Ricardo Costa versus Francisco Camps and Álvaro Pérez "the whiskers" — which was the one who travelled or courtyard of El Escorial at the wedding of the year— versus González Pons. I believe that these are clear examples of the lack of complexities of the People's Party when it exercises power, although here it comes to saying that all the evils of the Spanish economy come from the years 2004 to 2011. People, fortunately, remember and know that's not the case. In fact, consumer issues and consumer protection are directly involved in this issue, in the question of empowerment — as it were in some way — of the weakest elements in a chain of production-consumption. We know the sociodemographic and economic characterization of Galicia, we know it in terms of age composition, by gender, in terms of geographic location, residence, in terms of basic educational level, in terms of income, in terms of, above all, average pension. Anyway, I think we've been talking about this in a relevant way. And in view of the weak position of these sociodemographically characterized citizens, we have electric companies. We would all expect the public political sphere to exercise counter-power, or at least to be neutral. The revolutionary is today the spokesman of the Socialist Group, who was at least neutral! Well, unfortunately nothing like that happens. Unfortunately, in the areas of competition and consumption, the budgets of the Galician Union have been reduced by 30% between 2009 and 2019. I repeat again, the more we have to defend the weakest link in the chain — and it applies to electrical companies, which is probably one of the most predatory sectors of incomes, by the way, but it would apply to any other sector — there is precisely that 30% fall. Well, I'd like you to explain to us the reasons for this reduction. In the end, we also talk about relatively small amounts. By the way, with a unification of competition and consumption, as in the state, which now had to be reversed because the results in practical terms, in terms of public service, were absolutely harmful! Yes, to companies, instead of having to influence two, which is always a little more complicated, with influence on a basilica, because at the bottom of that was the question, we didn't think there was any other. So we're going to accept this motion. Of course, we have tabled amendments, one of them economical, in the sense that there is a municipal network, through the municipal consumer information offices, which I think could be taken advantage of. Maybe it wasn't essential to create that whole network again because they're certainly there. Then there's a technical question that we assume was a mistake. And then what we're asking for is the deletion of the fifth point, because here we're going beyond this break-up party, which is En Marea, and the Spanish Government has just approved or allowed it to be 0.1 kilowatts the margin of adjustment of consumption to bills.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u92	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u93	The truth is, I'm especially proud to go beyond Marea on this subject. I am sure that, in any case, the spokesperson of the People's Party will say — as I would say? — that the Socialist Government's connection with electricity is total and absolute. The evidence is, among other things...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u94	Thank you. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u95	...in which it is a very important issue in matters of adjusting in terms of supply and demand and, on the other hand — I repeat it too — the first time the ministry meets simultaneously with the three great electricians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada. Then we spend time eating. I say it by the clock. We got him. Yeah, I think we're doing great. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Christmas is over, so I'm just saying because then they know what's going on. [[Laughter]] When I say we're here at 4:00, there's going to be a problem. We'll leave the thing there, if you like. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u97	Thank you, President. Good morning again, gentlemen. Mr. Losada, if you like, we can talk about Carmela Silva's sister-in-law, who is today too, who, even above all, is not going to work and pay the same. If you like, we'll talk about Carmela Silva's sister-in-law, Mr. Losada. [[Applause]] It turns out that you, Mr. Losada, ruled in Madrid and did nothing to destroy that oligopolie that says we have electricity. You've ruled, you can't deny it. Look, Mr. Casal, cynicism is about to speak to you, please! that in your party at national level more cynical people can't be. Please, you're about to talk about cynicism in your ranks! The Group of the People's Party is more than lowering taxes and not restricting Spanish to tax. You're from curbing the Spanish to tax, we're more than lowering them. On the subject of diesel, you have to go a little further and not just see what the families are going to expect. You have to see the jobs that will be lost. I'm in a county where there are automotive industries that are losing jobs today and they're not hiring people for the sale of diesel cars. You have to go further and you have to expand that short horizon that you have, Mr. Casal. Look, they bring the debate a motion that aims to reveal the misinformation about electricity charges in our community. The People's Group can share with you the importance of protecting consumers in Galicia, which we do not share is their vision or their attempt to show a Galicia in black. [[Murmurs.]] Galicia in black is for you, ladies and gentlemen, and for your group, don't think all the Greeks are in the same situation. I'm going to summarize your initiative in two blocks because I don't have much time. The first block speaks of creating energy information points for municipalities of more than 15,000 inhabitants, and in the less than 15,000 inhabitants create them by region. We do not want to create any more Administration, we are to use the Administration we have, Your Honor, and we believe that Administration, both with regard to the Galician Institute of Consumption and the Inega, is acting correctly. On the other hand, you yourself recognized the work of the Galego Institute of Consumption — I was present in the question you asked to the headmistress of the institute — and you reiterated it here also to the counsellor during the last full session, and the Galego Institute of Consumption has held talks with those who have attended more than 2,600 people. You say you go around making talks, but I also have information from the people who attend your talks and, of course, you can't boast much fluently, Mr. Casal. In addition to the information talks that have been held, there are training activities in the 98 Cemit classes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It is also important to highlight the training given from the Galego Institute of Consumers to technical staff, both consumer associations and city council technicians, as well as collaboration with Red Cross or Caritas, as well as agreements with Fegamp on information about the social bond and the explanation of the electric bill. So, Mr. Casal, I would tell you to abandon demagogy and sectarianism by saying that the People's Party's Union Government does nothing, because it's not true, Mr. Casal. The Instituto Galego de Consumo oriente, informs, listens, advises and, in addition, inspects and punishes. It is important to highlight the sanctions that this government — which they say is next to the electricity — has placed these companies, worth 34.5 million euros, against 97,000 euros that the two-party government has put into it. But, of course, we're the ones next to the electricians, the ones we sanction, right? No one believes that data, Your Honor! Turning to the second block, on the proposal for existing regulations, I suppose that, ruling with those who rule in Madrid, would give him time to study the real decree that the Ministry of Ecological Transaction brought out. You ask in your initiative to hire power at 0.2 kilowatts. Mr. Losada has already come forward, but in that royal decree it is said that it can be hired in sections of 0.1 kilowatts, as long as you do not exceed 15 kilowatts and have a smart counter. So that's already done, and I have to tell you, Your Honor! In the regulatory changes, as this royal decree does not know it, it does not know the real decree of the reformulation of the social bond, which already includes all the measures you propose related to information about electricity charges. This Royal Decree states that a consumer in receipt of the social bonus must be expressly informed that he is changed to the free market contract, which will imply that he cannot access the bond. In addition, this reformulation of the bond states that marketers must include in each consumer's bill the amount to be paid for the small consumer, the amount to which the remaining forms of time discrimination would be applied. Mr. Rajoy's government decree also prohibits advertising or recruitment actions through door-to-door visits. The terms in which companies can access consumer and consumer-contracted power data have been regulated so that they can offer improvements. Therefore, Mr Casal, you can certainly continue to make improvements, and surely the Government of the Union will continue to carry out advisory and information initiatives. It is not necessary — I insist — to create more administrations, but to use them correctly. For us, the most important thing is to defend the rights of consumers, and I hope that you and your group will do it, that the citizens of Greece are the important thing, because lately it seems that all they care about is that you take yourself out to put me. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. Author of the motion group, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u99	Indeed, Mrs. Novoa, if someone already has the social bond -- he said very well, if someone already has the social bond -- the company has an obligation to give him all that information, the problem is that 80% of the people and households in Galicia should not have the social bond. Why? Because the information isn't enough at the time. You say the information comes in handy, but the reality -- and I've given you a lot of data -- is that why 60% of the large families don't have the social bonus in Galicia? Because they're perfectly informed and they're left with the money? Looks like it does! It seems that the problem, as always, is about people, that they don't know, they don't know! The Government does everything it has to do, people must not have a sufficient level of understanding and they don't know. The same thing happens — and I've given you a lot of data — why are people at the fixed rate and not at the time of discrimination? Because he wants to lose money, because he wants to lose money! 6% on time discrimination and 94% on price. The opposite is that in most European countries, where there is information to the truly solvent consumer. But people want to pay more! They're perfectly informed by the Galician Union but they want to pay between ten and thirty euros more. You criticize yourself and say that there are no people coming to... Look: this is Sarria's; indeed, there were very few people, there were about forty people -- I'm telling you for... [[Mr. Casal Vidal shows you a document to the members of the House.]] And you know what happened? I gave a summary, I tell them to bring a receipt, we analyze their receipt... you know what they told me there? There were a lot of questions -- because there are lots of questions -- and there was a group there of ladies and gentlemen asking a lot, and one lady said, "Hey, why do you report to those?" What are they from the People's Party? And I'm saying, yes, but it doesn't matter to the electricians, they don't care, they swindle the people who vote for the People's Party that people who vote for the PSOE, the BNG or the Marea, they cheat on everyone. And that's why it seemed very good to us that people -- no more voters, but people who are recognized as the People's Party -- were at the talk. Why do you know what's important, Mrs. Novoa? That the people who come, indeed, are not much -- well, but they've already been more than a thousand people in total in the talks we've been with -- but these people become energy advisor to all their neighbors. Ask, you'll see what they say. Well, I would like to thank you very much for the work of the Socialist Party and the BNG in the amendments, because they actually improve our proposal, and I recognize it, when they improve the work we have done is good. So we would accept the first amendment of the BNG, which replaces the 1,2 and 3 of our proposal, and which I think the Socialist Party could accept because it is going on the same line. Because it's not about creating more administration, more bureaucracy, it's about optimizing it on a subject that costs the Greeks two hundred million euros a year. That's for you -- the four cents of the gas oil -- that's a scandal, it's going to end with the middle class -- the 200 million euros a year for not being in the electric charge -- that's, after all, as it ends in the electric pocket, because it's not important.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u100	PSOE's?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u101	Later, Amendment No. 2 of the BNG would also be accepted because, in fact, the Royal Decree-- the truth is that I was there to take what the minister told me at a meeting, that they would put it in 0.2. It's true that later I've reviewed the decree and it's in 0.1; i.e., let's also get over it now, when we negotiate the Greek agenda in state budgets and pass over, and instead of offering us 300 or 300 million, they offer us five hundred or fifty million more. Oh, my God! Then we would accept the amendment from BNG as well. But points 6(a) 6(b) and 6(c) of ours are not collected in the decree, as are the implications of being on the free market — that should put it — that if you lose the right to the social bond, the guarantees against supply cuts; and point (c) of the maximum power consumed in each billing period. Because if this information doesn't reflect on the receipt -- what made the minister of Ecological Transition very well to put the levels in 0.1 and 0.1 -- people couldn't use it if they didn't know what instant power he has at every moment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u102	Thank you. About the PSOE?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u103	So, summarizing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u104	PSOE's amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u105	No, the PSOE would be embedded in the BNG.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u106	So you don't accept that of the PSOE?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u107	No, we wouldn't accept that of the PSOE because it's actually collected on the BNG more concretely.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u108	All right. Okay, thanks. All clear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u109	All right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u110	Thank you. Next motion. G.P. motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr. Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia to develop, during 2019, a plan to improve the professionalization of emergency and civil protection services in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u111	There is an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group. [[(G. P. Popular de Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Paula Prado del Río, through her spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this motion.Amendment of amendment.The resolution must be replaced by the following:"The Parliament of Galicia urges the Government of Galicia to encourage the development, within its competences, of a series of measures to advance the determination of an integral and professional model of emergency care which will contain at least the following measures:1o) To continue to promote, within its competence, the labour integration of graduates into the new formative cycle of medium degree of expertise in Emergency and Civil Protection through the evaluation of this title to access to professional services of civil protection, fire extinction or any other related to emergency management in the autonomous public sector; and to transfer the Commission's work to the rest of the competent administrations of the competence within the scope of this title and its field of use.2 Advance in collaboration in the definition of a map of care services with the most suitable locations according to isochronas; in the appropriate resources and technical means (including the improvement of a cross-sectional communication system); in the specialized training of staff of the various intervention groups and in the necessary funding").]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u112	To formulate the motion, Mr. Díaz Villoslada has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u113	Yes, thank you, President. Well, we are going to address a matter almost as a continuation of some other issues which, in matters of emergency and civil protection, we are touching, in the plenary, well in Commission 1a. I, speaking of this subject, believe that — almost as a preliminary measure — we must all recognize the work of emergency services and, in a very specific way, engineering, the Civil Guard and the rescue groups of miners in the work of the other day in Totalan. And in that sense, I think it was a joint, voluntary and, precisely, professional work sample. Well, as I said, this motion is, of course, the result of the request that we present in this plenary the other day for an effort, which must be convincing and serious, of better professionalization of emergency and civil protection services in Galicia. And he said the other day, in Commission 1 of the 23rd day, to the spokesperson of the People's Party, before a non-legislative proposal that the People's Group had presented in relation to the promotion, before society, of values and the need to strengthen the groups of civil protection volunteers — and we, of course, support — that we expected that reciprocity in working, precisely, in the best professionalization of emergency services when we brought this motion to this plenary. Because, in a very systematic way, the Government — and, in this sense, the People's Group — is drawing up or presenting initiatives that, in the area of emergency and civil protection, move only part of what is the integrated civil protection system in Galicia, such as the voluntary system. And, in that sense, in that debate, on the one hand, we said — and so we also said in the 2019 budget debate — that, if you bet on voluntary groups, a greater budgetary effort is needed because the credits are frozen over 2018. And on the other hand, it would be necessary to work together — as I say — not only on volunteering but also very specifically on the part of the professional sector, which is how the emergency sector is regulated in the Emergency Act of 2007. And in that sense, we always miss the development of the 2007 Emergency Act itself, which -- as we always say -- I don't know whether it's a law of another government -- if this law doesn't like the People's Group or the Government can try to bring a legal amendment or a new law, but if the law keeps in force, the law must apply it and it must be developed. And that law, in additional third provision, speaks of the adoption of a regulation for firefighters and the voluntary sector involved in emergency and civil protection services. I realized — or we all realize — that, of course, a network of two hundred and three groups of civil protection volunteers, of more than four thousand and five hundred volunteers, a network in which they now extend to twenty-four — even though they are professional services — the supra-municipal emergency groups, for it is a network of obviously important work — and it should not be so — not for the Government, but precisely for emergency services. But I insist: the work commitments of the Government of Greece and the commitments in carrying out initiatives and supporting them by the People's Group must focus — I think much more — on professional services. In that sense, the motion consists of four points. At the first point, we — which is the cause of the other day's questioning — demand that, as we have discussed and discussed with the Education Adviser, if we have a new medium-level training cycle of emergency technicians and civil protection technicians in Galicia, it is that both in the public and private sectors — who have a great deal of participation in different tasks and different phases of emergency services — is, of course, enhanced the inclusion of new emergency and civil protection technicians. And if it's true that in some way you're starting to take this title into account: by barring the entrance of these professionals in merit contests, in selection processes for certain devices. So if we advocate, it's why this requirement of titration — or a good set of titrations — is also implemented in other public devices that have autonomous funding, such as, for example, municipal emergency groups or other devices, such as municipal firefighting brigades, etc. And I also insist — or we insist — that measures should be put in place to ensure that this work placement of the new mid-grade graduates is effective. As we said the other day to the advisor, of course, the virtue or objectives of the FP — vocational training — or these new degrees of medium or higher degree, is that they have to finish precisely in the training-inclusion circle, especially since there are certain titles of these characteristics that have already been considered as university degrees in certain universities. Without going further, a university linked to maritime safety — which could also be a specific area of Galicia — as can be the community of the Canary Islands, because it has, of course, implemented a degree precisely in terms of safety and risk control at the University of the Palmas of Gran Canaria. And, speaking of this issue, it may also prove insufficient — in view of this demand for professionals — that only one institute — which is on the Road, in collaboration, of course, with the Galician Academy of Public Safety — is providing this training. Maybe. Different professionals in the sector are seeing the need to extend to other institutes in the autonomous community — from other provinces, of course — this training and then, of course, to the part of residence and practices in the Galician Academy of Security. A second point which seems to us to be key and complementary, but which may be the core of this motion and of all the problems we have raised in the field of civil protection emergencies, is precisely what we are calling on the Government of Greece during this year 2019 — in particular, we are calling for this semester, but, if it cannot be in this semester, that this year 2019, which is precisely the collective and advisory body to the Government of Greece in the field of civil protection, which is the Galician Civil Protection Commission, to say — because we do not know that there has been a pronouncement that can be known and that can be discussed in this chamber — about — as we say in the motion — if the current operational structure, both within the territorial model and within the functional scope of the provision of emergency and civil protection services — which should be considered, of course, the whole model of fire and rescue services — is the most appropriate structure at this time to ensure that the integrated system ensures the functioning of the principles of emergency. And we demand and ask that this petition be filed in this chamber. Because we could even conclude that since the Angelis accident we still have no correction in the area of emergency and civil protection devices. This would be accompanied by other measures, such as the absolute need to coordinate the communication system. Different devices may be working on the Tetra system, but even if you're using the Tetra system, you're not working on the same communication systems. This even happens to local cops, but that's about talking when we talk about local cops. Other autonomous communities — such as Madrid, without going further, Catalonia or Valencia — do have a secure intercom operation in integrated civil protection systems. Of course, the issues of uniformity, of distinctiveness, are absolutely necessary to strengthen them. Because the other day -- and someone can tell me that it's an anecdote -- if it's anecdote, pass through, but I don't think it's anecdote -- we had the opportunity to know a situation that shouldn't be given in emergency services: like a group of the Civil Traffic Guard itself extended a complaint to a forest agent who was turning to an emergency as an extinction manager because the vehicle didn't have the V1 or V2 badges, which are those of priority circulation. I mean, no one can get through the head — if it's anecdote, which remains in anecdote — that this may be happening in Galicia's emergency and civilian protection services, as it is happening.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u114	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u115	Finally, President, precisely with the last point, with point 4, which could be the colophon, which is that the Emergency Law of Galicia is being complied with and which is developing, precisely, by virtue of the additional third provision, a professional regulation of these services, such as the demand for legislation itself. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Groups intervene now. [[Pause.]] The People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia has the floor to Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u117	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, also, on a preliminary basis, I want to highlight the magnificent emergency services that we have in Galicia and that have been shown in the different emergency or disaster situations that we have experienced in our autonomous community. And I also want to stress, first of all, that who has done the most for the professionalization of these services and for the emergency and civil protection sector in Galicia is President Feijóo's Government. Facts such as the start-up of the mid-grade training cycle of emergency technicians and civil protection technicians in Galicia or the permanent improvement and evolution of the continuing training of these professionals, and also the renewal and provision of constant equipment of these services, show that the Government of Greece is concerned, is concerned, is concerned and, in addition, is completely bored with these emergency services, despite, ladies and gentlemen, that it does not have the competences of the autonomous community, as you well know. And we cannot say the same of the representatives of the other administrations, specifically the presidents of the Deputies of Lugo, the Coruña and Pontevedra, who questioned the emergency management model at a given time, saying that we had to advocate for direct management, which, by the way, Mr. Villoslada, is also in the Bipartite's 2007 Emergency Act, which you seem not to like, because it is you who are constantly questioning things that you have approved in that law, among others. A management that, in some cases, has been launched by governments of the Socialist Party and the Galego Nationalist Block, and they always come to say that it is the PP that has the privatisation character. But the PP, curiously, and the Government of Galicia, led by the Vice President of the Board, Mr. Alfonso Rueda, said: "No problem, if you consider direct management to be more effective and efficient, then. Junta's gonna keep putting on the same money she'd put on so far. Now, you lead that change. He gathered the deputies to start with that change, to report on that issue, and for the MPs to actually say whether this model is more effective, more efficient and more cost-effective; they've been working on it for three years, turning around the roles, and today they haven't changed to that model. It seems, ladies and gentlemen, that the one who doesn't like the law and what they put in the law is yours. By entering the theme of the sections of your motion: when you talk about promoting the inclusion of the new cycle's titles, we, in our amendment, ask, ladies, that this possibility of professional job placement is extended to all administrations. Because — as Mr Díaz told you — you know that people who come from this training cycle who work and enter the workplace are inserted, in addition to private companies, into public administrations, but not only in the autonomous community: in local administrations, in deputies, in provincial consortia... who has competence? We also include other administrations in this section, because these administrations — and above all, now that they are studying the possibility of taking direct management forward — will be the ones that take these squares into competition and therefore we also have to involve them in this process of work insertion. And our amendment goes on that line: within the framework of your competences, we talk about promoting development and not developing droughts, as the motion says, because the Union is not the only competent in the emergency model; as you well know, in the municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants who are competent are the deputies, and for more than 20,000 inhabitants it is the city halls. So, Mr. Villoslada, we must incorporate all the competent administrations because that's what the law says, that law that you say we don't like. With regard to the issuance by the Galician Civil Protection Commission of a report on ensuring an integrated system that guarantees the single command: well, on the single command we have already debated many times. You know perfectly well what the task of the single command is, and I don't have time here to remind everyone that there are ordinary and extraordinary emergencies. In the ordinary, the only command is the head of the council — whether the mayor or the concierge delegate — and in the extraordinarys depends on the activation of the plan: he may be the mayor or the concierge, he may be a provincial head, he may be the general director of the council — even the councillor — the president of the board, and even a state authority. But you know that the Socialist Party has approved and supported the dictates of the Committee on Forestry Policy in which a group of experts is established and that before the summer they present a report on, among other things, the proper functioning of the single command. And the emergency working group must take into account the conclusions drawn. We therefore ask that this working group be expected to manifest itself, because we are not going to go ahead with an issue that we have adopted in this parliament and, in addition, with the Socialist Party's vote in favour. Regarding the coordination of communications: well, Resgal is implemented. I don't know if you're asking another question. We think it's working well; if you think there's another option, say it, we think it's not. To approve a regulation of professional staff, which we have so often called the fireman's status: you know that the working groups were created, which are working on the fireman's status...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u118	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u119	...in the provincial consortia, but at the moment that the deputies of the provinces of Lugo, the Coruña and Pontevedra say that the model of indirect management needs to be changed directly, that process automatically stops. So, Mr. Villoslada, tell us, what do you really want? What do we do in the indirect management model and therefore negotiate the fireman's status? Or, on the other hand, do we go straight to the one? And what kind of fireman status...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u120	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u121	...negotiates the Galician Union when the competent authorities will then be other administrations? The truth is, I don't think this is the time to continue negotiating the fireman's status when we're talking about changing the management model, indirect direct management.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u122	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u123	So I think there's some other issues to be dealt with first and not to start home on the roof. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u124	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. You have the floor by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará Torres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u125	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to announce support for this proposal by the Socialist Group both in the field of vocational training and qualifications and in the other measures they propose. We think that we address at least most of the problems, shortcomings and weaknesses of the Greek emergency system — if you can call it that — a system in which there is a maximum and greater responsibility, which is determined in the law, of the Galician Union, shared, that is yes, with other administrations; shared with other administrations, but higher coordination and higher direction corresponds to the Galician Union. And our responsibility here is to control and oppose and control the government and demand the Government, the Galician Union, to change this system and to act accordingly to solve all these problems. And you act on this issue like a sort of headless chicken. This is seen, for example, at the beheading, at the cessation of the maximums responsible for both the General Directorate and the Emergency Galeg Agency that we live in in this legislation—for something it will be, Mrs Prado, for something it will be!—and for the bandages, for the patches that are given along this mandate, and then with that technique that is already very used to throw balloons out, to blame the embassies and blame on the deputies. They will also have to assume their own responsibilities. Look, there are a lot of pending questions. First, starting with CAE 112 on the Highway, which is a semi-balary building; semi-balary because you were unable to unify and gather all emergency services there. And they're now in the process of the transfer of the 061, with all the conflict he's had, and there's the Deputy Police Unit -- part-time, because it's not twenty-four hours, when emergencies don't rest at night -- the police, the Civil Guard are missing, the 085... They don't agree with 085 to go to the Road. You don't understand each other's own departments, because you don't talk about other people who haven't been there either. Look, they have the emergency map -- and they blame the deputies -- unsolved, unsolved! because among other issues they've done, I don't know how to say it already: they've taken a look at the GHG arrangement, but they're falling apart, there's a lot of trouble with their application, and they have no solution to the comarcaization of urban parks, starting with Ourense, which was the first thing they announced. Of course, now in Ourense you have bigger problems because they don't put out the fires that go out there. Because, of course, they just resigned the superconcerier Araújo, but this is not the only problem they have, because these turbulences are appearing to them, starting with Monforte, who also know a lot about this issue, by Viveiro, by Sanxexo... add up and continue. [[Murmurs.]] You look more and more like a gruesome cheese: they have holes holed everywhere.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u126	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u127	And, of course, you come here to say that the law... that it's been twelve years and they haven't fulfilled it, that they haven't done it, that they haven't done the professional fireman's status and volunteering; you haven't done it and they've been ruling almost all these twelve years, ten years. And now they blame the management model, but the fireman's status will be the same for all firefighters, either directly or indirectly managed. They didn't. It's your responsibility. Don't throw balloons out. Just like the Territorial Emergency Plan of Galicia — the Platerga — that you are not up to date, Mrs Prado, is not up to date. This is a very grave irresponsibility. We are talking about the plan that sets out how all the operations work, how training works, how self-protection and the protection of the population work when we are having new realities of unknown risk situations until recently in this country, as was the fire crisis in October 2017. You don't make any noise, you don't update Galician Emergency Plan, and you make excuses, as you're making excuses in the case of legislation, because you promised in your electoral program that you were going to make a new emergency law. Where is he? At this rate, of course, which takes the passing of laws, I think even by 2050 we'd get to that emergency law, because you're going to a law a year. You have to put the batteries down a little bit, work more and fulfill the policy plan, because you set up a policy plan and then you don't do it. Then this government is at the point of death. [[Murmurs.]] Finally, we are faced with an empty emergency legislation, where it's almost everything to be done by the Galician Union. He created committees, created subcommittees, but no progress. So let's get out of bed, get out of bed, get out of bed, get out of bed, get out of bed, get out of bed, get out of bed, get out of bed, get out of bed, get out of bed, get out of bed, get out of bed, get out of bed, get out of bed, get out of bed, get out of bed, get out of bed, get out of bed, get out of bed, get out of bed,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u128	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u129	...to make decisions and solve problems on such a matter of transcendence as this, Mrs. Prado, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u130	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs. Santos Queiruga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The fact is that, first of all, from the Marea Group, we also want to say that we will support the Socialist Group's initiative on four points, both in terms of training and in terms of resources, regulations... We believe that, in part — as has already been said — they can cover a number of serious deficiencies in the Greek emergency system. And, moreover, we are also a little surprised by the popular group's voicer's statement, because this is radically shocking to what the People's Party's proposals really are in the Commission's 1st, in the plenary, its usual defenses with regard to civil protection and emergency systems — and without actually entering into which they did not regulate the new law that they promised and so on—. And we have seen it in the last Committee 1a: the biggest proposal that the People's Party brings to this Parliament repeatedly with regard to civil protection and emergency systems is the empowerment of the voluntary system. And, in fact, I would like to remind you — for those who do not attend this committee — what the People's Party's proposals are in comparison to the proposals we can bring to the rest of the groups. For example, in the last commission they even use euphemisms that seem to have good intentions, if we don't know that they're then hiding their neglect and their lack of interest, not even for ruling. They were talking about dynamizing society's participation in civil protection teams, promoting social and institutional recognition of volunteer work, and counting on the best order and assistance services. Of course, something in which the groups could never be against, because, in addition, it was not precisely the People's Party that spurred this kind of guidance or self-organization services of citizenship. But, behind the beautiful words, what is a reality is what really interests the Galician Union, which is to supply its neglect in crisis situations with the efforts of volunteers, as it has been in the case of fires, floods, accidents, time-consuming... that it should be the volunteers who cover the deficiencies of the Greek emergency system. So what we cannot admit is this, because civil protection and the emergency system, as already explained — and we explained in Commission 1 and we have already spoken here — need no more volunteers, what they need is more means and more training to be able to cope with emergencies, minimizing the risks to citizenship. They need more personnel, and qualified personnel; in fact, this way of acting, to try to drive volunteers without giving the necessary resources and training even endangers their lives to save many times the paper at Galicia. So, the matter is much clearer, in addition, if we think of recurrent disasters every year, such as fires. Every year Galicia burns, every year it warns the Government that more material and human means are needed to fight fire and more training. The board has very recently the last call of attention, since at the beginning of this year there were five fires in Ourense, and in Pontevedra there have been four hundred and fifty hectares of fires, and that this happens in winter is very significant, since it underlines an uncomfortable truth: that the fires are no longer seasonal and that therefore you have to predict and fight them, precisely, with brigades and professional services that work throughout the year, and this is a deficiency of the emergency system that, with proposals of this type, can be solved. Fires are an example of what the Galician Union has to do, and what it has to hire, regulate, support and form more material and human resources and not discharge the responsibilities of catastrophes in civil protection volunteers, which are the proposals that bring recurring, even if they don't care to listen to it because they don't... well, then they're the supervisors who manage to rule, but they don't listen. So this doesn't mean society as a whole shouldn't be prepared to deal with emergencies in any way. We will always support, as we have said, popular self-organization, so that we can have a citizenship involved and conscious, but not to do what the Union has to do and what it is the responsibility of the Union. So you can't admit in any way the excuses or the management of the Galician Union. The Council of Galicia has to correct are its shortcomings in crisis management, its deficiencies in the emergency system, and, in addition to training volunteers, it has to train professionals, regulate professionals, give the means they need and stop making us ashamed of a government that is very marketing but few works. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. Author group of the motion, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u133	Yes, Mrs Prado, I, as when we always talk about emergencies and civil protection, have already been used to running the bulk of the matter by talking about the competences of the local administration in Galicia, I always need to reiterate to them what article 10 of the Galicia Emergency Act itself says when it speaks of what function is within the competence of the Union of Galicia: working, precisely in the highest coordination and direction of civil protection and termination of services that are deemed necessary, lend them in a unified way to the entire territory of Galicia and the management of emergencies that exceeds the means of response of local authorities. In addition, without going further, as you know perfectly, December 26 was just signed, between the vice president and the rural councillor, the four deputies and the Galaga Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, the agreement that gives continuity to the GHGs for the following years 2019, 2020 and 2021. So, I think everyone has clear competences, has clear possibilities, but the legal framework is what's there. I'm going to put one -- I'd say small -- example that happened the other day in a county of the Coruña metropolitan area -- a town council of over 20,000 inhabitants, a municipality with its own park -- where there was an incident -- a fire on an industrial ship. The park of the municipality itself — more than 20,000 inhabitants — for operational reasons could not arrive, called the provincial consortium, the provincial consortium could not arrive in time and the city park arrived. The city park has arrived, but do you know that the only command in these situations is not protocoled? He's not. Who's in charge? The mayor of the county where the industrial ship is? The provincial consortium holder? The director of the city park? Those are the issues that need to be solved, Mrs Prado, in the dispersal of services. That's why we're demanding this better professionalization, and that's why we're asking the Galician Civil Protection Commission to speak out. If we have to wait a few months for a conclusion from the Forestry Commission on firefighting services to be concluded, let's integrate these considerations, approach those six months and arrive at a transaction in that direction. We're not talking about outsourcing services, Mrs. Prado, when we had the opportunity to analyze the level of outsourcing of services by the Galician Emergency Agency itself in analyzing its appropriations in Chapter VI. That's right there. We know him perfectly well. Finally, Mrs Prado, we would agree to incorporate the first point. In fact, let's tell all the public administrations in Galicia that they encourage the implementation of this qualification, but let's not forget to also encourage the implementation of the titration throughout the private sector that intervenes in the public emergencies in Galicia. I think that final part could perfectly include her in her text. And the second point, too, would be understood perfectly as an addition to the second point of our motion, because it might have been better, but it couldn't have been just as a replacement. This is the transaction offer we make for a better professionalization of emergency services in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u134	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. At the end of the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the motions. [[Mr Prado del Río asks for a word.]] Yes, Mrs. Prado? What do you want the word for? Give a voice to Mrs. Prado's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u135	Yes, it's for clarification: Articles 26 and 27 of Emergency Act 5/2007 establish competences for municipalities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u136	No, no, that's part of the debate. No, no, the same as before. No, no. Mrs. Prado, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u137	I'm saying it because before Mrs Torregrosa made a clarification and I would like to do it too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u138	No, no. That's part of the debate, just like Mrs. Torregrosa. Then it doesn't work. First of all, we are voting on the motion from the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea. The amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, points 1 and 2, and the amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of En Marea, at the initiative of Mr Francisco Casal Vidal, on the policy of the Government of Greece in relation to consumer information on electricity tariffs. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u139	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. There's a transaction proposal, I don't know if... No, no, no, no. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr. Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia to develop, during 2019, a plan to improve the professionalization of emergency and civil protection services in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected. We suspended the session until four and a quarter, sixteen fifteen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u140	We resumed the session with the appearance point. The opinion of Mrs. Counsellor for Education, University and Vocational Training, on his own request, to report on the general lines of action of his department
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u141	To substance this appearance you have the word of counsellor. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u142	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, everyone. I want to start this meeting by repeating an idea that seems important to me and that I have already manifested the day that I officially assumed the responsibility of directing the Council of Education, University and Vocational Training: education is one of the cornerstones of Galicia's development. And this idea is linked to a reflection that I want to share with you: what do we citizens want for Galicia of the 21st century? To answer this question it seems appropriate to remember that today Galicia has a defined and differentiated educational and university model, born of educational policies developed since 2009 and that it is supported by both qualitative and quantitative results. At the beginning of 2019 we can share that it is time to deepen the consolidation of Greek education and to define a path of excellence for the different teachings, especially for vocational training, while strengthening the coordination of the Galician university system. From the responsibility that Galicia is supposed to serve, I understand that the mission that must face the Education, University and Vocational Training Council is precisely that of contributing to the formation of the Greeks and the Greeks of the 21st century. I have the full conviction that the focus is not only on what you invest in education, but also on the kind of education you invest in, because education — as Edward Myers points — should be seen as a process and not just a product. The vision and the path to follow I understand that it happens to be aware that the educational process is diverse, multidisciplinary, inclusive, community, interactive and multilingual; to work from the perspective of strengthening language learning, digitizing teaching and training in STEM matters without giving up humanistic studies; to guide the student so that he can prepare himself and manage his talents, his abilities and his emotions; to train the teacher so that they can better cope with the challenge of being mentors and promoters of analytical thinking, creative thinking and critical thinking; to advise and inform families to help them understand the functioning of the educational system and to monitor their children's learning. We are facing a new stage in which everyone, each since their responsibility, must work to ensure that the education system and the university promote the development of talent and leadership in the excellence of the learning of Galician citizens of the 21st century. Today's children and girls need tools that can enhance their ability to cope with an increasingly global, more technological and, above all, with a large volume of data and information that they must be able to select, encode, manage and understand. This is why it is a priority for the student, in both non-university and higher education, to acquire mathematical and scientific knowledge, reading compression, digital competence, languages, social skills, communicative, cultural and civic skills, in addition to developing the initiative and the ability to undertake through the appropriate cognitive and metacognitive strategies. In this context, logic and coherence recommend continuing the progressive development of policies directed at non-university education in terms of language learning through the progressive extension of measures provided for in the Edulangüe 2020 strategy; the real integration of ICTs in teaching and skills development STEM, with an updated application of the Galician Digital Education Strategy 2020; the promotion of equality and co-education from a perspective of comprehensive positive coexistence, under Educonvives — the Greek School Co-vives Strategy 2015-2020 — and the I Plan of Action for Equality in the Education Centres of Galicia 2016-2020; the improvement of the competences of reading, research skills and the use of the information of the student with the different actions of the LIA Plan of school libraries. Firstly, the Union has reactivated the bet on language learning through the Greek foreign language strategy 2020 Edulingue, with the fundamental objective of extending multilingualism to all educational stages and making it easier for students and students to believe their foreign language level at the end of the stage. Thus, the German student, in addition to the acquisition of skills in English and Spanish — absolute priorities — faces an integral learning of a foreign language, mostly English. We maintain the objective of achieving that all compulsory education students benefit from the measures provided for in Edulingüe, which includes actions in regular centres and also in official language schools, while incorporating them into the largest number of undergraduate and vocational education students. Course after course there is a progressive increase in centers that join Edulingüe; in fact, in this school year there are three hundred eighty-five of the Greek centers that teach multilingual teachings, which means sixty-three more than the previous course. But the multilingual model is not only functioning in the quantitative field, but also in the qualitative field, because Edulingue promotes testing to certify the level B1 and B2 of the student who completed the stages of ESO and of bacharelate in some of the multilingual centers. Eighty-four percent of the students who showed up approved the exams, where there was one written part and one oral part. I myself have direct experience, in my visits to different schools, of the English student's oral competence. We must continue to bet on the progressive extension of multilingual centres and bilingual sections in compulsory schools and, of course, also advance in artistic teachings, in vocational training, in bachelor's degree and even in university. In addition, foreign language learning relies on the reinforcement of conversation assistants, on official language schools and on the PIALE language immersion program of the teacher. Secondly, technology and digital media are here to stay, and the student in Wales must be prepared to face the benefits and risks that his use brings with him. To help them do this, the Galician Strategy of Digital Education 2020 is born. Introducing digital education in classes favors equal opportunities and divergent thinking, as well as the responsibility of younger generations and their competence in today's global society, and prepares future professionals to respond to new challenges. In Galicia we bet on the development of digital and scientific-tech skills through the educational process through digital education from the classrooms. The equipment is important, but it also involves students, teachers and even families. We face digital education in Galicia through two connected lines of work: E-Dixgal and STEM strategy. E-Dixgal has to do with improving support and content updating tools. In this course 2018-2019 a total of one hundred and fourteen centers joined the use of the digital book, which is already present in two hundred and sixty-seven centers throughout Galicia and which has 18 thousand students from fifth and sixth primary and first and second ESO courses. So we believe it is feasible to meet the objective of the E-Dixgal Strategy of getting 300 centers and more than 20,000 students to participate in E-Dixgal's resources and contents. But above all, I would like to point out the importance of all centres having their own training plan in the field of new technologies. In addition, in this 2018-2019, in all training and resources centres, in the CAFI, there will be presence courses of initiation and deepening in the management of the EVA and E-Dixgal environment, directed to the entire teacher. The STEM strategy, for its part, focuses on promoting knowledge in science, technology, engineering and mathematics, as well as in the disciplines of humanity, to establish critical thinking and autonomy of technological and digital citizenship, as well as to respond to new professional profiles. The goal of the Council is to boost STEM competences in educational centers, making fincapé girls and young gales to break up with the gender gap in these studies. This section highlights the so-called Bachelor of Excellence in Science and Technology — or STEMbach — measures that started this course with the participation of the 15 pupils from Galicia and with the expectation of incorporating up to five more by 2020. The student of this modality runs some extracurricular material weekly of two or three hours of foundation on STEM subjects and with an approach based on increased expression and communication skills, as well as direct contact, so important, with universities. Another of the STEM actions is to create the Gaelic Spaces Maker, places for students, teachers and even families, where they can develop projects through experimentation, under the maximum of learning to do. Strategy Educonvives 2015-2020 and I Plan of Equality in the Education Centres of Galicia 2016-2020: we will also continue to develop, disseminate and consolidate the measures clustered in the Welsh School Living Strategy 2015-2020 Educonvives, which meant for the teaching of Greek having plans of coexistence in each centre. The Educonves strategy will continue, up to the 2020 horizon, building on training actions for pupils, families, teachers and management teams for conflict prevention; the dissemination of successful experiences and good practice; the homogenization of documents and the establishment of standard models to speed up conflict management; the empowerment of conciliation and mediation as means of conflict resolution; and the coordination of actions with other entities and institutions working for the improvement of coexistence. Once the Galician Council for School Cooperation has been convened, we will be able to deal with the realization of a new macro-questionary to test the situation of coexistence and co-education in Greek education, which aims to update the data, both in Galicia and in each centre. In order to maintain the rigority of the study, in this time there was a work of analysis of national and international reports of relevance to determine the new questions about those aspects that, since the 2015 survey, have been shown as a key in education. The goal is to be able to have data and information on equality that helps centers to develop a more accurate diagnosis of co-education; on inclusion, with the same purpose of diagnosis and improvement in the Diversity Care Plan; on behaviours of harassment and cyber-acoustic school, from the perspective of the victim as well as of the harassing person, and on the vision or perception of the system by the educational community, while building on the achievement of good coexistence in educational centres. Since the Council of Education, University and Vocational Training we have a clear commitment to equality and co-education, which guarantees an educational model based on respect and freedom. And I've already told you that we're working with the General Secretariat of Equality to provide an amount of about three million euros in the area of educational equality. Aware that we are facing a complex issue that needs a comprehensive approach, the Council collaborates with the General Secretariat of Equality — as I say — which is a member of the Vice-Presidentship of the Union, in the progressive implementation of the I Plan of Action for Equality in the Education Centres of Galicia 2016-2020, a document which provides for different measures and which has a progressive and gradual implementation on the planned time horizon. The student and the teacher are already seeing their formation strengthened on: first, equality of men and women; second, non-discrimination by sexual identity; and third, the need to reject and combat gender-based violence. The social and regulatory evolution of the education system requires more ambitious and more comprehensive approaches that place equality not as an isolated element, but as a vertebrate of the educational organization and of life in the centers. Reaching this goal is essential. In collaboration with the General Secretariat of Equality, the Council works on the publication of a co-educational guide that contributes to the dissemination and extension of the principles of egalitarian school in order to reduce the impact of gender stereotypes and macho violence. In relation to this material, we believe it is useful to make a diagnosis of the situation based on the educational community's responses in the next macro-questionary of coexistence. Plan LIA: at this point, I want to highlight the role that the school library plays in the educational center as a booster of technological innovation, but also as a promoter of pedagogical innovation, as a fundamental reference space for the formation of student's key competences and as a meeting place for creation and critical thinking. Users are found in Galicia with useful, stable, sustainable school libraries that meet the needs of the 21st century. The areas of action provided for in the LIA Plan of school libraries for the period 2016-2020 are contributing to the educational centres offering students spaces to address research on reading, transmedia literacy or reading habits. I've also known first-hand these projects in these four months at different centers like Bueu, Mesaño, Vedra... To contribute to its educational role, school libraries need continuous action and have progressive implementation. We will maintain the annual call of the School Library Improvement Plan, which in this course 2018-2019 has added twenty-seven additions to a network already composed of six hundred and fifty-five centers. A complementary initiative enabled the selection of twelve LIA centres, which are responsible for moving towards a model of creative learning centre. Also in the context of the LIA Plan, we are pushing work with fifty-three special education centres or special education units under the term "inclusive library." This action aims to raise awareness of the need to move towards a library that really responds to the needs of all students in the face of the challenges that diversity presents. In this semester we will present a qualitative study on the impact of reading clubs on the reading habits of the schoolchildren participating in this program. As the controversial Swedish expert Inger Enkvist points out, not demanding that all students and students enter the world of the book to abandon them. Together with these major programmes aimed at responding to some of the main challenges of current society, the Education Council undertakes to strengthen and update policies directed at educational innovation to improve the excellence and academic and professional performance of students, without underestimating their cognitive and socio-emotional capacities, and also to disseminate and promote educational synergies. The Council will act as a driving and motivating agent, but we are facing a shared challenge of collaborative learning. We believe it is important that the education system in Galicia can enhance and innovate the learning process through a greater connection and interrelationship between the educational agents of the 21st century, which, as you know, are families, equal families, educational centers, the media and technologies. The initiatives and programmes of German education are of interest in Galicia and the rest of Spain because they consider themselves to be a reference to the path to be followed. That's how I've seen it on visits to other autonomous communities before I take over my office. We believe it is appropriate that the experiences of all the programmes already mentioned — and also those I will explain below — are confused by what we call the Greek Space of good educational practices, which will already have online and face-to-face format from the course 2019-2020. In particular, we will allow educational agents to exchange experiences and access all the information to better know and participate in the educational process. New technologies offer a great opportunity for access and information management, both for administration and for educational agents. As a matter of fact, we must allow teachers and management teams to be up to date to respond to the needs, demands and challenges faced by the student. That is why we are providing support, guidance and training for management teams in the performance of the management and organization activities of educational centres, an action that we are now going to reinforce with a new channel of communication: the Directorate's Portal. It is also essential that families receive information and advice on how the education system works to be more proactive in learning their children. So, we want to improve the communication and connection of families to the education system through the Family Portal, which will be oriented to providing access to information grouped into thematic blocks, which will offer content for which this collective has greater concern — education, choice of centre, complementary services... and which will generate a more cooperative communication tool between families, the centre and the Educational Administration. Over the years and in this same course, the Council has bet on program contracts, which constitute a good tool for boosting the autonomy of the centres, reducing early dropout and improving equal opportunities, equity and inclusion. This is a formula that fosters interdisciplinary and cooperative work and which has very good reception by the centers, since from its own reality they propose and perform actions of reinforcement, guidance and support, improved coexistence and fight against school failure and dropout. Still in the interim resolution phase, in the call for programme contracts this year, we have detected an increase in the participation of thirty percent. Assemble, course after course, the Counsellor maintained the effort in caring for diversity, in the development of protocols and in promoting flexible itineraries for students with special educational needs. I would like to highlight the next presentation of different protocols to add to existing protocols; in particular, we want to equip the teachers and families of this instrument of action and intervention in the areas of educational care to students with hearing disabilities, from care to students with high abilities and attention to students with dyslexia and other specific learning difficulties. Let me remind you at this point that 91.9 % of the student with special educational needs — Spain's largest percentage — is integrated into the ordinary centres, which promotes equal opportunities in teaching and genuine social justice. And we're talking about real integration, not just physical integration. Whether Galicia is the reference of inclusive school in the whole of Spain is not enough; we want to deepen in an educational system that, from the different stages and with the collaboration of all agents, promotes the development of talent, leadership and creative production of twenty-first-century citizens, the basic pillars of a society in vertiginous evolution in danger of liquefying, as Bauman says, in a postmodernity that identifies progress with shortcuts. In the current educational context, the orientation is considered as inherent to education itself, because it aims to contribute to the comprehensive training of students, regardless of their abilities or needs, with the aim of training them for learning at autonomous times and for active, critical and transformative participation of society throughout life, and for the involvement and counseling of parents and other agents of the educational community. We have an important way along, but we want to keep moving forward. Thus, departments and educational guidance teams are called upon to update their training and unify the framework of action coordinated by the new Service of Inclusion and Educational Guidance, created in the new organizational structure of the Council and affiliated to the Directorate General for Education, Vocational Training and Educational Innovation. It is planned to design a plan for the dynamization of vocational and vocational guidance in the education centres of Galicia that contributes to the personal and professional development of the student. The advance plan will involve different performances for each of the educational stages and will begin to develop through the continuing training of the teacher, which is undoubtedly a key piece, since it performs a fundamental task in a constantly evolving education. The McKinsey Report already pointed out: the important thing is the quality of the teacher, his abilities and his preparation. As part of our responsibilities, we continue to work on the renewal and updating of the teacher's initial training. One of the first agreements of the specific working group with the Deans of Education of the Galician University System is the collaboration agreement signed with the three Greek universities for the completion of the phase of practice of the Interuniversity Master in Research and Innovation in Child and Primary Education. The objective of practice is to analyze innovative proposals and to be able to collect information for further analysis of the framework of innovation and educational research projects. This will result in an improvement in educational institutions from research into real contexts and in the greater professionalization of teachers and teachers. We also strongly wagered for the continuing training — the competence of the council itself — where we enhance the learning of foreign languages, the acquisition of scientific-technical competences, equality and co-education, as well as the inclusion and vocational and professional guidance. Next to the wage improvement agreed — which is already being applied — another subject related to the teacher has to do with the public job offer of 2019 for teaching bodies, which, as you know, is the widest thing that has been done in Galicia in the last decade. I would like to point out that the 2,064 squares convened in thirty-five different specialties add up to about seven thousand opposition posts in bids made since 2009. In addition, as a novelty, the call for squares for teachers of secondary education in the Portuguese specialty, as part of the Union's commitment to advance the development of the Valentín Paz-Andrade Act, adopted in this Parliament. The OPE this year is called upon to cover the total rate of retirement replacement and, in addition, to enable employment stabilization in the education sector. With this call we have complied with the stabilization agreements and we have lowered the already low rate of interinternity in the teaching of Galicia — the lowest community in the state group — to bring us to 7.18 interim rate. As you see, we're working to turn Galician educational centers into real learning and innovation spaces thanks to people's involvement, but we'll also make an important effort to improve the quality standards of facilities and educational infrastructure, aware of their impact on the educational process. The Board of Education, University and Vocational Training will increase by almost 70 percent the budget allocated to the Education Infrastructure Supply Plan, which expanded its vigil in one year and will now cover the period 2016-2021. So we manage a budget of about two hundred million euros for works in six years compared to the one hundred and eighteen million originally planned. The implementation of the 2016-2021 Educational Infrastructure Supply Plan will involve the renewal of older education centres, in addition to a clear environmental commitment through energy rehabilitation actions. On the other hand, investment aimed at the new work responds to the needs of increasing squares in the public education system in Greece, especially in areas of greater population growth, as well as the increase in enrolment in vocational training. It is precisely another of the lines of action that we consider fundamental since the Council: strengthening vocational training in Galicia with the objective that it is even more useful for the development of talent, for the inclusion of people in work and for the use of their potential as a lifeline of entrepreneurship, research and innovation for our productive sectors. We must not forget that in recent years the offer of vocational training qualifications in Galicia has gained prestige and has also helped to satisfy the expectations of the student's work integration. This is because the FP currently has 100 degrees of training courses adapted to Galicia's productive tissue, and the bet on quality training, innovative and close to the territory, with vanguard methodologies — such as dual vocational training — has led to a great increase in employment integration and a remarkable increase in enrolment in our community. At this point, the Galician FP has to take a step forward in the field of innovation and boost training in line with technological progress. So, the new challenge is to adjust the student's training to the demand of a changing work scene, in perfect harmony between the educational center and the company and also thinking about internationalization. To that end, we consider it essential that English and other languages be more and more present in the Welsh FP, as required by the student himself. We face this objective from a triple strategy: on the one hand, through the network of centres with multilingual training cycles — multilingual FP — and on the other hand, with the definition of a professional module in autonomic technical English, which will be incorporated into all training cycles of new qualifications and which will be implemented in the next course, and finally with the realization of complementary activities in English in all training cycles. In order to comply with a parliamentary agreement, I would like to announce the creation of an annual prize to promote and disseminate dual FP in Galicia and value the involvement of the Galician industry. In addition, the Galician strategy of vocational training will pick up future opportunities and actions to meet the qualifications needs of the Galician population in the coming years. The Education Council will also seek to incorporate the relevant departments in the field of qualifications and vocational training — provided that measures need an interdepartmental and interinstitutional approach — and to enable them, social agents and administration in their development through the Galego Council for Vocational Training. On the other hand, I confirm in this chamber that we are already working on the creation of the Galego Centre for Innovation of Vocational Training in Ourense, which will have the mission of promoting applied innovation projects, new virtual contours of simulation, generation of business projects and applied transfer of patents. Innovation projects developing in this centre will promote synergies with the productive sector and the transfer of knowledge from centres to industry. For its launch, the Council of Galicia is committed to the Provincial Parliament of Ourense, which will bring an amount of five million euros to the execution of the works and their equipment. The Education Council will initiate the procedures for tendering the project this year and will be responsible for staff operating costs. The forecast is that the Galego Centre for Innovation of Vocational Training is located in the council of Ourense, in the vicinity of the CIFP A Farixa, specifically in the facilities of the old school home of Marinemansa. It will involve the rehabilitation of the building and the design of an educational project with technological and industrial implications. As you can see, Galicia bets on an educational system that looks at excellence and towards the future. But we must warn that we see with some concern the fact that the actions of the current Ministry of Education do not tell us about this. Galicia has been and will also be a loyal collaborator for everything that involves improving education, but it does not contain with us to go back to the past. Do they actually share the Ministry's model, which represents a return to the past with a purely political character? Are you sure the citizens of the future can be formed without a model at present? Since the Education Council we have defended the strengthening of educational freedoms as a guarantee of quality, as well as a new academic management that responds to the development of content and competences according to what the 21st century student needs. Of course, in this appearance, I want to reaffirm the explicit commitment of the Union to the promotion of a work combined with the three universities of Greece; to reaffirm the commitment to the public university, to the modernization of higher education and the role of the Galician university system as a catalyst for the productive fabric of our community. So, in order to finish this first intervention, I would also like to refer to the projects that we — we understand — are fundamental to the University System of Galicia. The Greek Government argues that Galician development of the future needs a Galician university system adapted to the 21st century and committed to training and talent management. The three public universities in Galicia are called to develop an important task for the benefit of Galician society as knowledge transmitters, as future generation trainers and as research and innovation generators in different fields. In the coming years, self-government policies will continue to increase collaboration and cooperation between the three institutions that integrate the Galician University System, and also to improve research capacity and the results of university research, while there is a specialization of university campuses and a reinforcement of talent capture. By logical coherence, we will maintain the four priorities in university matters: The implementation and fulfilment of the Plan of Financing of the Greek University System 2016-2020: many times we have spoken in this chamber about the importance of the Greek universities having secured their funding on a time horizon for several years. In this year 2019 the Union of Galicia will allocate a total of EUR 440 billion to comply with the provisions of the plan, a figure that marks a milestone in transfers to universities in our community. We are the third autonomous community in Spain as a percentage of university funding in relation to GDP. The universities of the Galician University System will receive in unconditional funds — in the plan — more than 300,60 million euros. I work together for the development of a new map of titles: rationalization of titles and specialization is a strategic bet of the Galician Union to adapt traditional structures in the organization of teaching and research. The agreement on the principles governing the planning of the academic offer signed by the Council and the three principals in March 2017 is the consensus roadmap until 2021. There's still a lot of work to do in the front, but Galicia is already a pioneer in this strategy of optimizing the offer of titrations. The University Excellence Plan sets out a set of measures to be implemented by 2020. We now have eight of the ten measures planned: the first degree of interuniversity, four degrees with English groups, the improvement in international rankings and the measures that this requires, the uptake of Ibero-American students for degrees and masters at the universities in Greece, strategic management courses at research centres — I have personally found that they are giving a fantastic result — the employment map of the former Greeks, and also the definition of professional profiles for the future in collaboration with the EGFA. We also have the action of awards to academic excellence in degrees, in which I want to stop a little because, in addition to being a government bet, it also meets a parliamentary agreement. These winners will be summoned in February, once the order is completed which lays the foundations for their concession. A total appropriation of EUR 440,000 of the 2019 budgets is allocated, and each person who is awarded will receive an economic allocation of EUR 1 000, upon acceptance of the award. In this first edition, the best records will be awarded at each of the official degrees given in the Greek university system. With this initiative, we aim to encourage academic excellence in all official degree titles, giving the award to the best file in each of the courses in the curriculum. Together with the eight measures under way, we are also developing the remaining measures of the Excellence Plan, i.e. the creation of a new self-remunomic supplement linked to the transfer of knowledge and the call to grant the seal of excellence to masters who meet certain quality requirements. Another key axis of university policies is the reinforcement of Galician university research. The Council maintains its commitment to the nearly 500 girls and young researchers and researchers who have a training career of up to eight years. Their contracts are entirely assumed by the Autonomous Administration, and we will continue to co-finance research contracts collected by universities in national calls. We will continue to consolidate the articulation of the research system in Galicia. At the start of 2019 we already have two hundred fourteen competitive reference groups with growth potential, as well as fifteen centers with great potential to obtain synergies within and outside the Greek university system, structured in five singular research centers, two consolidated strategic groupings and seven others in formation, as well as the recent obtained Maria de Maeztu. It's time to consolidate the Welsh research strategy in the university field based on the improvement of the Greek university system through the specialization of campuses and the conversion of our singular research centers into the best letter of presentation of the Greek university system. Encouraged by €15.7 million by the Council, the three universities develop specialization projects on their campuses with the challenge of improving their skills at national and international level. At this moment, this collaboration enables Galicia to have eight campuses with specialization projects: at the University of Santiago, the Campus da Cidadanía and Campus Terra; at the University of Coruña, Industrial Campus, Campus Innova and Campus da Sustentability; at the University of Vigo, Campus Vigo Tecnologico, Campus Crea and Campus da Water Campus. Although the degree of development of these campuses is firing, the accreditation procedure for campuses is started in the first quarter of 2019, which is recognized at the national level and which guarantees a standard of quality. When the following phases of this project and this process are resolved, an agreement will be signed with each of the universities for each campus for the funding of approved programs for the 2019-2021 triennium. Of course, we maintain the program of singular research centres with a new call in 2019 to renew or incorporate centers into this autonomous accreditation. I would like to point out that the programme covers sixteen of twenty-one, with a global allocation of thirty million euros, and also that we now distinguish the excellence and talent of the centres of singular research in Galicia — CITIC, CIQUS, CIMUS, Cinbio and Ecimat — and the so-called consolidated strategic groupings — CITIUS and Atlantic. Finally, I would also like to point out that this year 2019 we will launch a research talent capture and retention plan that provides for autonomous funding for universities to hire more researchers through the two modalities proposed by the Council: senior researcher, to attract our excellent research universities with an internationally accredited career, and distinguished researcher, to hire new scientific profiles in strategic R & D areas. I am finished with a positive and hopeful message: Galicia has a defined and differentiated educational and university model, supported by quantitative and qualitative results and which advances in giving continuous response to the challenges of the 21st century. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u143	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u144	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, Counselor, too. Look, I — so in advance — will tell you that something has been going on since you arrived, and we've seen it today in this audience. You quoted Bauman, the Marxist philosopher, and in the last appearances of the former councillor, you quoted theology of Christianity and the act of contrition. We moved forward and we got better on the dates, and that's also what we wanted to recognize. [[Applause]] It's an advance. And I'm going to start my intervention on the positive side too, because there's it. There is a positive part that we found in that public job offer that we had just known a few days ago and that we had gathered that call -- you also mentioned it in your intervention -- from the four Portuguese high school squares, in compliance with the Paz-Andrade Law, of course, but also from a unanimous resolution adopted in the Galician Parliament, driven by the Galician Nationalist Block on the occasion of the debate of the nation's state last October. A resolution which also included, by the way, the incorporation of Galicia into the Community of Portuguese-speaking countries. These four squares were a demand of the professor and the promoters of the Peace-Andrade Law since it was approved in 2014. We have brought from the BNG Parliamentary Group, since then, on several occasions to this Chamber initiatives to urge the Galician Union to convene these squares and, finally, we find in this public job offer these four Portuguese secondary squares. They're almost five years from the approval of Paz-Andrade and, despite that positive part that we recognize at the beginning of our intervention, Galicia is still far away from other territories that strategically bet on the use of the links with the Lusophony. In 2017-2018 – the past course – in our country they studied Portuguese, according to the data of the Education Council itself, more than three thousand two hundred students and students between primary, secondary, undergraduate and official language schools, after three academic courses since the implementation of the Paz-Andrade Law. By making a comparison to see in relative terms how they are taking advantage of in other territories of these links with the Lusophony in a more determined and strategic way than in the case of the Greek case: in the case of Extremes they have increased, in just five years, eighty percent of their Portuguese student, which today represents in that territory that there are nineteen thousand people studying this language. That is the result — we have insisted on from the BNG — of a strategic bet, in this case of the extreme government, which is what we have missed during these years by the Galician Union. Welcome are those four squares in this public job offer. We've been studying Portuguese for five years, depending on our country of absolute volunteerism for people who have hours and knowledge to impart this matter, and that's impossible to comply with the Peace-Andrade Law, but we could almost make it extensible to any other law. It is encouraging — I insist — that these four places are called for in this public job offer, but they are also, we say, absolutely insufficient and cannot stay there by far. We would like the BNG, and today we are engaged in this appearance, which is committed to continuing this call in successive public job offers. This country — we have said it on many occasions — needs a determined bet, a strategic bet by the Council of Education and the whole Government of Galicia in the real and effective application of this Peace-Andrade Law in all areas to which it refers, which are many. And especially in the field of education should be translated from now on — we understand it — in the development of a strong campaign to promote the learning of Portuguese in all the centres of teaching in Greece, and also in the call — we insist — of these squares in successive public job offers, with strategic planning and with medium- and long-term objectives that enable us to move forward. And, of course, it also needs budgetary commitment, economic resources to enable us to implement and implement that law. Galicia has everything to gain — we say so many times in this chamber — by taking advantage of those ties that unite us closely with Portugal and with the set of luxophone countries, because it is the natural space to which our country belongs, and there they open for us immense potentials not only in the cultural and linguistic field, but also in political and, above all, economic. And besides, this is a vision that doesn't only defend it by BNG, but is also shared by the director general of the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries, Georgina de Mello, whom we have, in addition, had the opportunity to receive in this chamber and also in other parts of the country. This was the positive part, but I have something to tell you about the set of that public job offer that we knew -- I mean -- few days ago, and that you also announced the bomb and the plate. Even today in the morning the councilman of Fairy did it again intensely; I didn't see her so convinced you. You announced it as the largest in the last decade -- the socierge of Fairy repeated it this morning, some reference was also made to you -- but you're actually making traps to the lonely, counselor; in addition, we saw that they tried to do those traps already last year by trying to catch it or regatta us all and all. What's really on the table is not that massive public job offer, but there's an exercise of trilerism with the figures, because really in that public offer they're convoked, free access, 1,788 squares, and the rest are of internal promotion. And I say they cheat or want to cheat on the lonely and cheat on us, by the way, because in the previous year, in the public job offer, more than ninety percent of those internal promotion squares were uncovered, they were empty, nobody presented. So what you're trying to do is fake and make up the numbers to sell an idea that doesn't materialize. And the truth is this OPE won't serve to increase the teacher, which is one of the main needs of our country's education system. You were talking about some very important challenges ahead, that teaching has to be a process that contributes to our country's development. I fully agree, but, of course, what needs to be done is to provide resources: economic resources and, above all, human resources that allow us, precisely, to convert teaching into what it is, which is a powerful tool for social transformation. We also saw how those cuts at the very beginning of this academic course, which is currently in force, left schools without important programmes. You were talking about attention to diversity: they lacked due attention to diversity in many schools. And what we are concerned about since the BNG is that this year we are not going to have enough human resources — the teacher, after all — that we need our educational centres. They are concerned, in addition to the lack of a teacher, also the Council's unwillingness to exercise its powers and, also related to the working conditions of the teacher, to improve the quality of education in our country. We refer to the willingness of the Spanish Ministry of Education to stop usurping the competences of the Galician board on the regulation of teacher's teaching hours and the reduction in the maximum number of pupils by class — the ratios — which is a fundamental part, precisely, of the quality of the education system and the attention to the diversity of what you were talking about. We, from the BNG, what we've asked for, what we've been defending for a long time is that the Board, assuming its competences, reduces the teacher's educational schedule, returns to those eighteen and twenty-one hours that were in force until 2012, and, in parallel, the reduction of those ratios. You were talking about that ninety-one percent of our country's students are included in ordinary schools. We always defend this, it is the best way — and we understand that, in addition, the only one — to guarantee social justice in our country. But that inclusion has to be accompanied by resources, by means, and there is no computer that replaces the teacher. That reduction in ratios can do it, they have political capacity to do it, and we urge the board to do it. There are two questions — it won't give me time to finish all the elements that I wanted to put on the table in this first intervention — that we wanted to underline. The first, that's true, there was no change, despite the change of name in front of the Council, is that here we hear a lot of multilingualism, a lot of the introduction of foreign languages in teaching, but it seems we were in Murcia, or I don't know, in Castela-Leon, that we didn't have a proper language, a language of our own, and that we didn't have the Unity of Galicia, in addition, an obligation, a statutory mandate, to normalize, to seek the linguistic normalization of the Greek language. I'm going to give you a vote of confidence and that in your second turn, what are the measures you intend to take at the Education Council in the field of linguistic normalization through our country's educational centres? And the last one — I'm finished, President — is a question. You were talking about educating 21st-century society, the 21st-century student. A fundamental aspect that we want to point out is all that has to do with co-education and equality, you also referred to it in your intervention. Here's a unanimous agreement, adopted in November 2017 and driven by the Galego Nationalist Block, to incorporate a specific subject in equality and prevention of masculine violence into the teacher's master's degree. There is absolutely nothing of that after the time passed, and the only thing we have is a training course for the new staff who joins as a civil servant in public education in our country, of only twenty hours, practically directed to detect what are those legislative instruments that govern on equality in our country. We want to ask you when you are going to comply with this Parliamentary agreement, which is absolutely fundamental for us to educate in this country — and I am finished — who is educated, because, if not, there will be no way to be able to break the foundations on which this patriarchal and macho society is supported. For now, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Welcome to this Parliament. First of all, thank you for your presence to present what the lines are and what your plan of action is supposed to be in front of the Council of Education, University and Vocational Training. I really believe that I wish you every success, because I always say that the success of the Government is the success of the people they rule over. In this sense, to see if we are the ones who, on this new road that starts as a result of the change of the head, the holder, the Council, to arrive at agreements to which we have not been able to reach for much effort that we have put over the course of time since October 2016 this parliament was formed. I would like to tell you that I recognize that you have actually introduced new initiatives, initiatives that have been demanded from various educational sectors for some time and that until now it seems that they have not found enough time or priority enough for the Government and the Council to put them into operation. In any case, it will allow me with all affection and respect to tell you that before 2019 there was an educational system in Galicia, before 2019 there were institutes, there were schools, there were teachers, there were teachers, etc., it did not start the world with Feijóo and it will surely not end when the president's term of office ends. So, said this, I'm going to try to follow the order in which you've been exposing your fundamental affairs, your lines of action, and we're going to start with the Edulingue strategy. No one questions the need for a strategy to acquire skills in foreign languages, mostly in English, but we also have to say that the data that has so far given the implementation of this program do not correspond by far to the objectives that have been presented, beyond the course 2016-2017, such as that Strategy 2020. I don't know if it's because 2020 sounds really good, looks like a capituous number when it's not. In any case, we are full of 2020 strategies, and one of them is multilingualism. You have the objective that in 2020 there are 500 multilingual centres in this autonomous community. At this point, the reality is that there are 327 primary sections of a total of 870, and here I'm going to let you say that, regardless of what I thoroughly question the functioning of this strategy, particularly as regards multilingual sections, because it costs me a lot as a professional to assume that with a class time in a foreign language... it's a primary time. It's not an area, it's an hour. Because you know perfectly well that in most centers you are giving the label of multilingual because you teach artistic education, which is being unfolded, in turn, on two subjects, and one of them is being taught in English. It's hard to assume that with this one-hour increase a week, linguistic competition is doubled, as announced by the Council in some medium, in some document, more or less official. In any case, I am very much reminded of the asymmetry of the implementation of the public network and the private network of centres in this autonomous community and the response to these programs, because public centres represent 78% of those who provide primary education in this autonomous community, but only 57% of the multilingual community. On the other hand, private, concerted or not centres, which account for 22% of the network, are 43% of those that are labeled multilingual. You understand this tagging not as a pejorative thing, but simply that they are forced to use the term plurilingual in their denomination. As you see, there's a more obvious asymmetry. In the case of the bachelor's degree you have a 40-center horizon, and right now you have 8 of that Bachelor's degree of excellence in languages; that is, they're at 20% of the goal that you've marked yourself into two full courses. In the case of FP, vocational training, which you referred to, you just announced that an autonomous technical English module will be introduced, which I think is good, but here is 31% of the achievement of that objective. And the worst of all of this, and as we've recently seen ourselves getting used to having to quote sources, I'm talking about figures and data from the ministry of this course, so I think it's an information that we're all handling, because there's even been differences with the variety of information here. It turns out that in the percentage of students participating in foreign language use experiences, this autonomous community is located behind Andalusia, Aragon, the Principality of Asturias, Canarias, Cantabria, Castela-La Mancha, Madrid and the region of Murcia as regards the integrated learning of foreign languages. It is data — you may consult — on page 29 of this report. So, I think there's enough, enough to improve in that sense. As for the Bachelor of Excellence, which you also referred to, considering that 15 centers, of the 294 that could have been targeted to this program, is quite successful, frankly, if we get the percentage, things are put in place. I believe that frankly here the councillor that you are leading — you were not the advisor at the time that the relevant instructions were issued for this pilot project — in any case, it is becoming improvised again. I hope and hope that you will be able to correct this inertia in which the Education Council has been installed since several courses, to leave all the programmes of experimentation and educational innovation for its convening in the months of May and June, so that centres never have enough time to discuss in a quiet manner the participation or not in that kind of program. And so let you review this way of acting. Besides, I'd like to know if you're going to make an assessment of whether there's any kind of relationship between school transportation or not and the participation of students in this kind of program, because we're generally talking about activities that are developed once the school day is over, and therefore it's complementary training. And although you can tell us that the undergraduate student is not a student student of school transport, the reality is simple, it's commonplace, and it shows that actually, the undergraduate student uses school transport, as it is normal to use, to return to their homes once the classes are finished. So I think this should be reviewed. You also spoke — it was something to be hoped for and I'm not going to say that you cheated on your intervention, it was simply something to be hoped for — of the public job offer. It would be very good if you announced that as an objective 2020 of the Education Council the 1,449 teachers who were lost between 2008 and 2018 will be restored. I also quote the source if they consider it relevant, which is the statistics of the Public Service of the Galician Union. It's no data I've ever gotten out of any place that's anomalous or alien to the government itself of the Galician Union. In 2008 there were 30,841 teachers, in 2018 there were 29,392, so I think the account is easy to drop. Mrs. Rodil has already told me that there is a small trap on the solo with the percentages, because, of course, 276 of those 2,064 squares are from Group A2 to A1, so they won't reduce the level of interinternity, it's an internal promotion process. Of course it's legal, of course it's normal, but it's not going to reduce interinternity at any point because it's already a staff member who's a teaching officer. I was hoping for a bit more virulent opposition from the Galician Nationalist Block over the four Portuguese squares, because I published a press release that meets the Peace-Andrade Law because we put four Portuguese squares on an offer of more than two thousand squares — one thousand seven hundred and something if we remove those of internal promotion — it's that they don't even touch one per city! Of course, I think there are more than four centers in the autonomous community that are imparting Portuguese as a foreign language. I'd like to hear how much you're going to devote to the improvement of teaching centers, reforming facilities, fitting them, etc., because that's a whole amendment to everything we've been listening to so far. We came to say that there was a need for more economic resources to reform centres and adapt them to new needs. We always heard that it was more than enough and that the Council had a plan. Well, as you can see, someone noticed that the plan was insufficient. With regard to dual vocational training, I believe that you are quite far from reaching the goals of students enrolled also in Horizon 2020, but in any case we will have a chance to talk about this more often. What was a whole amendment was the last part of his intervention, referring to politics in relation to the university. I think it's very nice that there's all sorts of recognitions. I think it's very nice that there's a return from that research capacity that our universities have believed in, but frankly, when we cut off some of this investment that was destined for R+D+i to build a building that nobody asked for, the issues start to give you the idea that, beyond money, we're talking about distributing diplomas. [[Applause]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u147	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u148	Thank you, President. Counsellor, I will begin my intervention by wishing you much courage, for the task you have ahead is nothing simple. Irresponsible policies of his predecessor in office have resulted in an important prejudice to education in Galicia and, therefore, to our present and future as a country, with fewer classes, with fewer teachers, less resources and, finally, fewer rights for all. It was now up to you to clarify in your intervention whether you were going to follow the disastrous course that the ex-counsel had decided to adopt, for the benefit of a few, or whether it would, on the contrary, change. By listening to her, the truth is, we have many doubts, because we've heard too many times, too many times, about excellence, about the best, over and over again; about rights, very little; about inclusion and equal opportunities, almost nothing. That was the way the People's Party decided to run too long ago. It's very hard to forget what happened in the last few years in the Greek classes because of the very efficient work of the Romanian councillor. And I say, yes, very efficient because he had a clear mandate: to start demolishing public education. And in his speech, nothing made us think that something would change: they closed centers, they increased schools, they supported sex segregation, and they increased school hours. Finally, they were compromising the quality of education services, and in their intervention they did not try to amend this path. So hard was the offensive of the cuts of the People's Party that, if public education was kept standing, it was only for the daily work of professionals and professionals that we are committed to public education on a daily basis. I work and effort they have maintained despite their constant interest in cutting off their rights, of which they have not said anything since they will recover them. He will understand, therefore, that we have many doubts and that we want to put on the table many specific questions that concern us. The first one is about the numbers, the specific figures this government is about to teach this country, and you tried to put the sale before the wound saying that it didn't matter what was spent. I don't know exactly what the phrase you used was, but he said what you invest is not what matters most. That's just what you can say who's always got the whole pantry, because we all know we don't, that's not exactly the same. Teaching today has 413 million euros less than when the People's Party reached the Government; in real terms, 413 million euros less than in a decade. So it's hard to talk about recovery and growth, we can just talk about consolidation of the cuts. It's 413 million euros less, Counselor, which, of course, matters. The data is clear, you know we've commented on it at the budget meeting, but we have to insist. If GDP is pre-crisis figures, why is the percentage investment in education the lowest in the decade? We still don't have an answer. That's why we have to insist. Why do they insist on telling us that we are going to have less and less resources for education? Counsellor, is that how you understand commitment? By investing less? How can you explain that when the People's Party reached the Government, investment in education was 4.24 percent of GDP, and today that figure is at 3.56 percent? You will know that this figure leaves us three-tenths below the state average, although the Spanish State — we have to say it over and over again — is already the states that are in line with the educational investment in all of Europe. So what they're doing is putting us in line with the worst. There's only one state that has an investment below Galicia right now, which is Romania, with 3.1%. Is that your model? We already told him not to. We want to look at ourselves in the mirrors of the best education systems in the world, in the mirror of the most inclusive systems, in the ones most adapted to today's societies, and those systems, Counsellor, I'm sure you know, what they don't do is cut investment; on the contrary, they increase, invest, bet on the future because they believe in their people. We ask you, Counselor, that you also bet, that you create in Galicia, that you believe in the children and children of this country, and we need resources for that. Continue to cut down, continue to reduce investments, nor is it indifferent, as it seemed in its intervention, nor, of course, is it mandatory or necessary, a political action which, of course, has political consequences. We well remember the cases of the Bridges, of Outes or of Ribadavia and the continued effort of the ANPA denouncing the closures with night and alleviation. Also the struggle of the beginning of this course of the families of Ames, Orders, Roxos and a long et cetera of dignity; a long et cetera of ANPA throughout the country that rose against the demolition of public education, especially in the lowest link of the chain: rural education. It's true that you weren't part of that government -- even we think the counselor had to leave for this -- so today we want to ask him to stand by now. We're supposed to be in rural legislation. Well, Counselor, many people have been working for years to put a specific rural education plan on the table. We've already brought him to this House on numerous occasions. A plan that contemplates the particularities and potentialities of an educational model so close to us, that puts value to the diversity of this country, which focuses on the small, the territory, the neighborhood. You have in your hand the opportunity to tell all the children and children in the country, in the countryside, that they will not continue to close their schools; that they will meet their needs regardless of where they live; that this Government will work for all of them. It's a question of rights and, above all, it's a question of the future. It's obvious that we can't say that if we want to fix population in rural areas as long as public services continue to be dismantled. The closure of the unitary schools is an absolute tragedy, both for girls and boys who have to stop studying in their everyday surroundings and for the Galician set, since it prevents many people from developing their vital projects in the territory. What are you going to do about it, Counselor? Are you going to fix your predecessor's errors or are you going to continue your legacy, becoming a necessary accomplice to the country's emptying? Of course, rural schools are not the only ones who suffer from the cuts in the Union, but on the contrary, we have seen a lot of us denounce in this Parliament the deficiencies in infrastructures that the education centres in Galicia suffer. Colleges with cracks, balls with contaminated water, classes with penguins, constructions with asbestos. For when, Counselor, do you teach free classes in Galicia asbestos? For when are fully accessible centers? Do you know that there are many schools in this country that can only be accessed by stairs? Do you think he's worthy of a country like ours? What opinion does he deserve? For when, at last, a concrete commitment to 100-percent accessible schools? We have to pretend, of course, another direct consequence of the cuts in the People's Party. You've got over your back the loss of over 1,400 teachers in this country. You talked about the public job offer, but what you didn't tell us was when we were going to be able to get back all the teachers you lost. You know the public job offer doesn't work for this, and you don't say it because that's the strategy of the People's Party, they want us to get used to living with less and less. And you know you forgot to say it too? That this public job offer is totally insufficient to recover the percentage of interim staff we had in the country. When the People's Party arrived at the Government, Galicia had about six percent of its staff. With the offer they've just made, you're not going to reach the seven percent peak, the unions are talking about not going down from 10%. So we're almost twice as precarious, twice as unstable as labor. For when is an interim staff stabilisation plan? For what time, too, a serious commitment to diversity? We need more teachers, but we also need more specialists in Hearing and Language and in Therapeutic Pedagogy dedicated to meeting the special educational needs, not dedicated to primary, as it is happening, deceiving with numbers. We can't afford more cases like Cariño's, with fewer resources for greater needs, with fewer specialists precisely to care for those who need more attention. Counsellor, you know that we have specialists in shared centers, that resources don't come anywhere they need. It is a lack of commitment and sensitivity that this Government should not allow. More matters on which we expect urgent change in this council: of course equality. Counsellor, it's not us, it's enough to raise your eyes to see that it's the women of this country who want and demand a real change; that thousands of women exist a feminist country. That in the historical year of the 8M, of the Me Too, of the I do believe you, we had to read in the DOG that this council intends to continue holding concerted centers that secretate the student is an insult, an absolute shame, but above all, it is a more evidence that this council is not up to the people to whom it belongs to govern. The announcement that these centres will continue to be funded is one more case of the complicity of the People's Party with a religious and ultra-reacting lobby without any kind of noise. Nor did they have any rubble at the time of signing a government agreement in Andalusia in which, in addition to signing an anti-women's pact, they signed an anti-sensine pact, and this is to worry. In that pact, they signed out to eliminate zoning, promote privatization and concertation, and want to avoid any ideological interference in teaching, referring to that dangerous gender ideology. What opinion does he deserve? Will you follow the People's Party on the way to the People's Party in Andalusia? Of course, we're interested. Our proposal is clear: stop financing the centres that separate the student and invest that money in a true equality plan in the educational centres. So we can probably see the result. We have a lot more questions and little time. What will they do with artistic teachings? Are they still ignoring their legitimate demand for incorporation into the university system? It's a question they've had on the table a long time ago and that their predecessor has decided to ignore. We also want to talk about, of course, a concern that reaches the whole university community. Galicia needs a talent capture model to enable it to provide stable research. In other communities it has been shown that, with political will, it can be done. There are examples such as the Catalan Research Institution or Ikerbasque, which show that if money is attracted to research, it multiplies its production and potential return to university. Financing for science, that's what you should talk about. Fewer Fontán buildings and more direct funding for researchers in this country, so they don't have to go on. These are some of the issues that have been on the board table for a long time, that your predecessor has decided to ignore and that we wait, Counselor, he knows how to address with greater consciousness and better forms than his predecessor. I use it to ask you not to make the same mistakes. It protects public education, bets on research, respects the right to equal education and, above all, works with the educational community, not behind it. And for that, resources. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u150	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Good afternoon, Counselor. I also want to welcome you to this House and thank you for your presence to explain to us what the general lines or lines will be behind your advice for this next period. Thank you for making some of the opposition groups as well. I think you've come to express that in the Greek education system there is a perfectly planned plan of what are the goals that are wanted to conquer and what are the measures and the work to be developed to achieve the objectives that are proposed. I started Mrs. Rodil in her speech by saying that something had advanced on the part of the counsellor in the counsellor's speech, and I have to admit and I have to tell you that something has also advanced in this debate about the tone and speech of the opposition, at least of the Socialist Group and the Nationalist Block Galego; in other words, it is in Marea that they continue again and again with the intention of transferring that story of the distópic novel of the Welsh educational system, giving absolutely back to the reality of the Welsh educational system. And the more they stay away from reality, for, of course, the more they avoid the citizenship of their postulates as well. But we have to keep working on our own, and here we are to make constructive politics, you come closer to positive, and not to be moving over and over again a totally distant image of what the reality of the Greek education system is. [[Applause]] As I said, there was a change in the speech of the opposition; a change because, if this catastrophic vision had previously been generalized, now you start to see that the opposition groups, particularly the Socialist Party and the Galego Nationalist Block, move a series of issues that they understand can be improved, and obviously on the way to improve, I think we can all find ourselves. As I said before, we are all here for the defense of the education system, for the defense of the future of our society, and in that sense, everything you are coming near to improve within the limits of the reasonable, as if you have to always consider, must be collected by counsellors, surely they are collected by counsellors, and that is the constructive spirit of work in this House. I believe that the education system — and it remains manifest in this audience today — is in quite a good state, and denying it would not be fair. And I say that it remains evident in this audience because we note that most of the issues raised by the opposition are limited to specific issues. Of course, we have different perceptions, but I think you don't have to stay too far away and that in the future you can reach points of agreement on certain issues. As was well said in this House, the need to implement the mandate of the Peace-Andrade Law to implement Portuguese professorship squares has often been reiterated, and, of course, the Government fulfils the legislative mandate of the Peace-Andrade Law and the parliamentary mandate adopted in the State of Autonomy debate through a motion for a resolution, convening in this public job offer these Portuguese professorships. We're not going to debate, we've done it on other occasions in Commission 4th, and I think that always in a calm and constructive tone, the difference between the extreme model and the Greek model. As you know and have talked about it on many occasions, there are totally different linguistic realities. Furthermore, in the specific case of Galicia, the titles of Galego-Portuguese Philosophy are qualified to teach Portuguese classes. And then, the fact of counting on a language that collects the Self-Government Statute itself as an official, which is the Greek, and its linguistic and phonetic proximity to Portuguese -- I say this is probably a matter that is part of the collective imaginary, although we have talked about it as a mistake in many cases -- makes it in some way to consider or to consider socially the need to learn Portuguese as a secondary, because it is understood that since this linguistic proximity we already have nearly the tools to be able to understand Portuguese. I mean, this is probably a question that we've discussed and talked about on many occasions, it's not a proper perception, but it's a social perception, and you know this is so. Obviously, the Government — fulfilling, as I said before, a legislative mandate and a parliamentary mandate — is carrying out the measures or is progressively implementing the measures that enable us to move forward — such as the Peace-Andrade Law — in the domain, knowledge and empowerment of those links with the Lusophony we have in Galicia. Mr. Álvarez started his speech by talking about agreements. I almost had that start of intervention when you urged the advisor to see if we were able to reach agreements on education in this new period. I say we wish to be able to reach agreements on education not only here, but in all areas, at the state level as well. I want to remind you of a matter, and I think you should also use this debate to remember a number of things. The Socialist Group is speaking in agreement in the area of education, but you will remember last March 6th, when the Socialist Party decided in Congress to abandon the State Covenant for Education, the Social and Political Pact for Education. They'll remember perfectly well. In addition, we are talking in this House about this issue at the moment, and we have already spoken on several occasions about this issue. I also like to keep in mind what each person says at every moment and try to see how the opinion is going to conform, what are the arguments for defending a political position, and then check if those arguments have to do with what is done later and with what is later reality. You're ruling now. I remember perfectly well that last March 6th his argument to abandon the social and political pact for education was the detail that he did not invest in the budget, or that he did not collect in this social and political pact, the investment of 5% of the gross domestic product in education. That was his fundamental argument to get out of that social and political pact for education. Well, since the People's Group in the Courts at that time a financing project was being transferred to the education system that consisted in disengagement of GDP, because linking it to GDP would, as I have said before, legitimate the possibility of cutting, because when low GDP we would be legitimizing the cuts in education if we linked the percentage to GDP. The People's Party proposed funding at that time of 5,000 million, and then it was proposed to implement, on the basis of the measures envisaged by the pact — which were fifteen — additional funding on those 5,000 million soils. At that time, those 5 billion would account for 4.8% of GDP, and you refused because you didn't reach that 5% of GDP. I am making this temporary view of what was that moment of the pact because, of course, you now rule, give an budget to the citizen to be approved, and the normal thing is — I say, man! — that, after the Socialist Party has joined the Social and Political Pact for Education for not including 5% of GDP, in this budget they present, funding for education will be at least 5% of that GDP. But no, surprise! "The Sánchez Government freezes spending on health and education: 4 per cent of GDP." It is even inferior to what was presented in that social and political pact for education. That argument was valid for them to get out of the social and political pact for education, but it turns out that now, when you get to the government, not only they don't get to 5%, but they're even lower than they're supposed to be from the People's Party. Of course, at Marea at that time — well, we can in Madrid — also criticized the fact that we did not reach 5% of GDP, but now, when the Socialist Party presents funding for Spanish education of 4% of GDP, you applaud with your ears. That's the coherence of every political party. We continue in the position we always defend. I want to highlight the presence of the Counsellor, as I said before, that we are working, that we are working from the German Government, for an educational model that deepens in the consolidation of the model and teaching of excellence, yes, because there is nothing wrong with defending that the education system must be guided by excellence. Of course, from our point of view, we are a political party that defends that all society in general has to walk towards excellence, and that should not seem bad to anyone. Excellence is not exclusion, because precisely an educational system of excellence has among its fundamental characteristics to be inclusive and to be equitable. And in that sense, the measures needed to ensure that the education system, in addition to excellent, is of quality, inclusive and equitable. The data is there, you can see them and you can check them out. We were talking about inclusion — it was pointed out to the Counsellor, she referred to Mrs Rodil — 91.9 % of students with specific educational needs, integrated into regular centres. But still, we continue to defend the path to excellence, logically, and with people with specific educational needs within that system and also on that path to excellence. That's the model that this group defends and the model that the Government defends: it bets on coexistence, it bets on inclusion, it bets on vocational training — another of the fundamental lines that were slid in the first intervention of the lady councillor's appearance. Vocational training that empowers dual vocational training; the inclusion of foreign languages, including English, also in vocational training modules. And the Galician Centre for Innovation of Vocational Training — and it is now finished, Mr President, waiting for the next shift — a centre that will have the mission of boosting innovation projects, new virtual contours of simulation — as it was pointed out — generation of business concerts and applied patent transfer; a project that has been in danger precisely because of the lack of commitment of a public administration — well, of a public entity, in this case the Vigo Free Zone — that put in danger a project for the city of Vigo and that is in fact no longer being carried out there. On the contrary, another responsible administration — as was the House of Ourense — has come up with the necessary funds for the Galician Centre for the Innovation of Vocational Training to be a reality, and in this case in the city of Ourense. We have to thank you for your presence. We have to congratulate her on her exposure to which she will be the basic lines of her government and the Council in this period that she begins now, and of course we have very clear that walking on the lines and path that you have set us up here today, in this audience, the Greek education system will continue to be a quality system, an inclusive education system, an equitable education system, and ultimately an educational system according to the needs of the Greek society of the 21st century. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u151	Thank you very much. Replica, Counsellor for Education, University and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u152	Thank you very much, President. The truth is that I started this show in the hope that among all of us we could draw an answer to an ambitious question: what do we citizens want for Galicia of the 21st century? I thought that from different positions, we could come to meeting points. The diversity — speaking of the inclusive education system — may add, may be useful for teaching, if there is a spirit to contribute. I didn't hear an answer, they couldn't offer alternatives. We heard more about it. [[Murmurs.]] Of their interventions, what I understand is that their government control work has to do more with teaching at the heart of a battle than with advancing the resolution of future challenges that education has to face on a daily basis. I don't think they were able to present an executable alternative, a realistic alternative, to the educational model defending this council. They want more investment in education, but they forget — as many experts have already said — that achieving good educational results has a lot to do with the way in which the resources are being spent with the amount that is being invested. In any case, Mrs. Chao, in the Minutes of the sitting the literal phrase I said in my speech will appear, which is that it was not only, but also also. I didn't mean I didn't have to see the investment, but I was also investing in it. They ask for more co-education, more equality, because ideology confuses the part at all. They criticise Galicia's educational model, a model based on more languages, in the real integration of technologies into classes, more equality and better coexistence in classes, more places in public education. But, in truth, they want more multilingual centers, more projects with technologies, more centers that share equality issues, more teachers... They just want to criticize for criticizing? [[Murmurs.]] I'm going to answer some specific questions. Mrs. Rodil, first of all, thank you for the tone of your intervention. And secondly, tell him that if we have to quote Marxist authors in order to improve the education system, don't doubt what we're going to do. [[Applause]] Your Honor, you must not compare the situation of Galicia with the situation of other autonomous communities; the pupils attending Portuguese are fully cared for. Now let's put ourselves in addition to a qualitative aspect, start stabilising these squares of Portuguese teachers and teachers. And, Mrs. Rodil, don't be mistaken. By law, all job offers should include the professional career commitment of existing teachers. Or don't you want there to be internal promotion squares for teachers in the system? I don't know if you're in Murcia or another autonomous community, but there's no precaution when there's such a low interintenence rate in the state, and only in primary is 6%. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Martínez, thank you for acknowledging that there are new initiatives. You question bilingual sections, but I'm obliged to remind you that you started this concept, even if you haven't given it content. Today we have 4,442 sections in 646 centers, how can you digest your reading of the statistics and confront it with 84% of students being accredited? With regard to projects and transport, Your Honor, this is one of the few autonomous communities that offers free transport for programs like PROA. And, of course, when we have vacant squares there are also students of bachelor's and vocational training on buses. It's funny that criticises an infrastructure plan that just brought this government forward, the previous PP and PSOE didn't. The new Fontán building co-finances itself with money from the University Financing Plan. In this regard, saying that it was a unanimous agreement of the follow-up committee of the plan, in which the three universities are represented. If there was no unanimity, it would not be approved. This is an internal rule of committee to make important decisions, and they voted in favour of the three universities. As Mrs Chao said, "it's not only what you invest in education, it's also the kind of education you invest in," that was the literal phrase. How can you say that the Greek education system is not equal? But if international reports put us as the most inclusive territory! Mrs. Chao, don't confuse yourself with the figures because I'm going to have to send it to the Official Journal of Galicia. Education budgets in universities, without language policy, amounted to 2,389 million — I see it in the DOG — this in 2009; 2019 budgets amount to 2,392 million — you can also look at it in the DOG. I think, Your Honor, that you have to strengthen your computing competency, or don't update IPC figures when the IPC in times of crisis was negative. Your Honor, the interim rate today in primary school is lower than in 2009, and when the opposition process is over, we'll be at 7.5%. Now that you take me as an example of Andalusia, you'll tell me why when they supported the Government of Andalusia, they didn't eliminate the concerts. The Council of Culture and Education must ensure the efficient management of educational resources supported by public funds. [[Applause]] Given the birth figures and the dispersion of the population in Galicia, it is not feasible, either from the pedagogical or economic point of view, to maintain open schools in rural areas with fewer than six students. In any case, the Council maintains the same criteria to keep the schools open, and it has at least six students. However, remember that the Bipartite closed an average of nearly 20 unit schools a year, while this measure has been reduced since 2009. In addition, the Bipartite has been able to close schools with more than six enrolled students who are now required with a much more demanding criterion than the current one. First they tell me that I don't quote theologians, after I'm an accomplice to a religious lobby, I don't quite understand what you're talking about. In any case, legislation and judgments support that both co-education and sex-differentiated education are legitimate educational models that are compatible with education from equal values, opportunities and treatment to people. Look, the pupils and students who are enrolled in Galicia in mixed education are over 99% of the total student. You're talking about buildings in colleges. Your Honor, please agree with the mayor of the Crown and tell him they don't want investments in buildings, now that the mayor doesn't want hospitals, but ICT buildings. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u153	Thank you, Counselor. Special round. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u154	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. I think you brought a little the prepared replica, Counselor. I was hoping for a different tone from us and I think it's also a virtue to know how to modulate when, even if predictions or expectations were one, at last reality was in a contrary sense. And on that line too, I would ask him and ask him some questions in my first intervention that were left in the air; I don't know, to see if I have a little more luck before I finish this show. You were telling us what citizens and citizens wanted for Galicia of the 21st century and where the educational model of our country had to be centered. We defend him here many times. We want free citizens and citizens and citizens who are critical and critical of the tools that enable them to interpret reality by themselves and build a more just and fairer reality. And talking about justice and talking about equity and about inclusion, which was one of the first issues that we put on the table, I love: yes, we have to work on the horizon that marks that excellence. But excellence is not so much achieved that we want it strong, strong; there is a need for economic resources and there is a need for teachers in this case. We talked about 91% of the inclusion. We -- I insist -- we defend that absolutely, but what we can't have is thirty-two people in class because the repeater doesn't count, because a person who has specific educational needs doesn't count more than one student anymore, without considering that they are people who will need support in their learning. It was the question that we put on the table: we do not currently have enough teachers in our country to meet the needs of this student, especially that student with specific educational needs. There was also talk about PT, AL, and of course also strengthening and stabilising guidance departments in all public centers in our country. And we had since the BNG, in addition, two measures that are political decisions that can be taken today by the Education Council, and which had to do with the competences of the Galician Board itself in reducing that academic schedule of the teacher who would also allow to earn staff especially in high school and, in parallel to that, the reduction of those ratios. Because, we insist, yes, but we must guarantee the conditions within the educational centres so that this student will receive the attention that he or she needs for that social justice we were talking about. I put it on the table: what about language politics? Because — it is true — in the disintegration of these cultural and educational councils, which so far were together, the competences in language policy brought them to culture, but you have a responsibility as the department of the Greek Government that manages a socialization agent as important as public education in this case. I proposed, giving him a vote of confidence, there was no such vote of confidence in his answer, and we see that there is no intention, because it is not even cited the necessity and legal obligation that the Government of Galician Union has to normalize the Greek language. That's why I did it. I am not in Cuenca, I am in Santiago de Compostela, in Galicia, which is a country with its own language which also has a responsibility over it the German Government, and we have said it on many occasions in this House. [[Applause]] And it's not a theme of the Galician Nationalist Block, but it's a warning to the situation in which it is found. And the responsibility of the Education Council in the situation in which our country's own language is found—the Council of Culture, said to the Academy, said to the Bureau for Linguistic Standardization—is that what you did to us in the 2010 decree was to go back twenty years—literally that's what the Royal Galicia Academy says. And what we want to know is how they're going to reverse the consequences of their language policy in recent years. In that sense, we used to talk about excellence, we were talking about co-education. I deny him the greatest. I think I've already done this in the intervention you had in the 4th Commission on budgets, presenting the budgets for 2019: separating women from men in classes is neither equal nor equitable, nor should it be democratic. Nor should it be democratic. [[Applause]] Does anybody take it in their head that we feed the girls and the kids on separate tables just saying we're going to give them the same food? Does anyone think that's democratic and acceptable? Why do they force the whole of the Galicians and the Greeks, who are against it, to have to fund with the money of all the centers that secrete the student by class, which goes against the most elementary principle of co-education, which is that we live together, share space, share the world and therefore we have to live with the classrooms as well? For us this is unacceptable. We continue — there is no answer — when this training will be incorporated as a specific subject in equality and prevention of macho violence in the teacher's degree? There is no answer to that either, because we are very afraid that there is no intention on the part of the Galician Council to comply with a mandate from this House. And lastly — that we have spoken, we will have opportunity, we will take initiatives both to the committee and to this plenary, we were talking about excellence, excellence in teaching, excellence in university. What we cannot demand is excellence without resources and also preaching excellence in one of the areas that have to do with education and education as is the university, which is where the highest percentages of precarious work is today. We have teaching staff and investigators who are on an interim basis and few hours receiving wages of less or less than 500 euros. You can't exemplify yourself if you don't give the resources you need to the university, which is what you've been claiming the whole of the Greek university system in our country for a long time. Open these negotiating tables and start discussions for this funding plan which expires from 2020 and lay the foundations for the following five-year plan. Also the concern that our country's own public university system has with that private university project that stops about our heads and what we have not yet been referred to — and what we have requested by Article 9 —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u155	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u156	...the project to this House. I insist: if we defend free citizens, citizens and citizens with the ability to interpret and analyse from a critical perspective of society, but that's all we're going to achieve with resources, human resources, economic resources and, above all, leaving behind...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u157	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u158	...as we were talking about co-education and equality, issues that are far from the fundamental rights of a free population. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u160	Thank you, Mr. President. Allow me, Counsellor, not to be disrespected, to speak to Mr. Fernández Gil in advance. Whenever you want, we have a monographic debate on how to tide up a partridge, thinking about the Government of the People's Party in the State, about the state pact for education. What it was to create six subcommittees, each of them duly slowed down, duly dedicated itself, was not well known to which, in the end, to focus all their attention on one of them, which was the one which discussed the more instrumental aspects of legislative change. Whenever you want, we have that debate. [[Applause]] Counsellor, I think — Mrs. Rodil said — you were prepared for one — I don't know — more virulent, fiercer, tougher position on the part of the opposition. But it turns out that those with the education spokespersons don't know if, since before Christmas, we're imbued with a species of what we call "Spirit Fontán", which we're all calm, we're friendly, we're hard but without losing respect for that in our interventions. And with the "Spirit Fontán" they know the voices and voices I'm talking about. You said we wouldn't give any answers. Home!, I didn't know that I had been a mission of the opposition in an appearance to give answers; rather, it would be the Government who should answer the questions of the opposition to him. But if there's an investment in methodology, it's good that we come to an agreement on how to pilot the appearances from now on, it's not going to be the government asking and the opposition to respond. Look, we talked, we talked a lot during the first round of data interventions, programs, etc., etc. I recognized that there were things that were obviously necessary, you announced things that you think are interesting in addition, that if you get to the good port will be good for the education system, but you will allow me to tell you in this last intervention what are the problems that are presenting the defense that the policy of the Education Council does the Popular Parliamentary Group; and I think it's something you should focus on and try to reverse that situation. Because look, you, when you said that you were going to pour out your intervention, mentioned the I plan of equality actions in educational centers, although then you didn't make any wider reference on this matter. You know that this parliamentary group has led the committee and in full twice the attempt that the Galician Parliament should know the indicators that are in that plan about its compliance, and that twice that request for information, which means that the Government, the Union, will make an evaluation of a plan of absolute importance and that no one questions, that it should carry out that assessment and give us that information. Do you know that we've concluded or at least that concludes this voice that speaks to you? That there is no evaluation, and a program that is not evaluated is a program in which you are not interested. You spoke of the Bachelor of Excellence in Science and Technology; that fifteen centers point to that plan is not a very important answer, frankly. But we'll ask for information on how many students there are in that plan, if there's any incidence, some relationship between the fact that they don't have school transportation and, therefore, that instead of a program of excellence if they become an elite program, only within the reach of those who can afford to have some additional means of transport once the classes are finished. We'll ask for information, we've already asked for it, we'll make up that request for information. [[Applause]] With regard to dual vocational training — which has not given me time before — it turns out that you have the objective of having 5,000 people enrolled in the 2020-2021 course. According to some means of communication — I suppose you have information that was given to you or, if not, that you would correct it if you were false — there are 937 enrolled in this course. I mean, they have to five times, five times, the number of students with regard to this course to meet their own goals. And that frankly I think should at least be the fruit of a deep reflection. What's wrong with her? We know, we're not going to ask you impossible, nor do we ask the former advisor or ask any advice. But I think giving less publicity, less grandloquent and round figures and adapting more to reality and the possibilities of the system would be good for everyone. And finally, to finish, we want to give you an answer to the problem this country has, which has this autonomous community with regard to rural school and its dismantling, with the same success as this parliamentary group, which was the first to bring this kind of initiative to this Parliament, all the time with the same answer: it is not necessary to speak, it is not necessary to meet, it is not necessary to study, it is not necessary to make any special plan, because that is already the responsibility of the Education Council, which manages the well-being of all the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Applause]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u161	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u162	Well, I said before, we have too many subjects and very little time, too many questions and very few answers, and of course we have more than those we put on the first shift. You spoke, Counselor, on your own behalf, of vocational training. But what vocational training? Are you satisfied with the model we have right now? Do you have any data on the FP student's work placement? Do you have data on the adequacy of the supply to the demands of each territory? Are you aware that every time this parliamentary group brought this issue to this House, it hit the overwhelming majority of the People's Party? It is quite obvious that this would be a first step towards quality vocational training. On the contrary, in his intervention, the only novelty that has contributed was a dual vocational training prize; a prize, excellence again. Precisely in dual vocational training, you almost talk to the teachers who teach these teachings and you will find out what they say: that we are facing a major failure of the People's Party in public education. There is no real audit of the percentage of continuity jobs they provide and the squares there are not even covering. And what about basic vocational training? Can you tell us how much student continues in the middle cycle, how much student reaches a fixed employment contract, what specific preparation does the teacher have to deal with girls and boys who are practically already outside the education system? Do you know the pressure these professionals suffer, the abandonment they report? We should also talk, because you did it in your intervention, from the Edudigital Strategy, the incorporation of new technologies into school classes. You said in your speech that this program favored equal opportunities. And well, our question is, do you know, Counselor, that today, when E-Dixgal teams have perchance, they're sending bills to families of even more than 300 euros? What opinion does he deserve? Do you think all Galician families can handle 300 euros billing for equipment that breaks down? He spoke of STEM strategy and gender gap. I'm curious that when this parliamentary group brought to the Commission a 4th initiative that spoke about this, the People's Party had voted otherwise. Or the LIA Plan, from school libraries, of how at school there are not enough teachers to attend them and then libraries have to be closed; they are very well, but closed, as it happened, for example, in the center of Ames. The Parliamentary Group of En Marea brought this issue, this initiative, and the People's Party voted no. It has to do with the constructive policy of the People's Party!, Mr. Fernández Gil, constructive and dialoged above all. I mean, what they show is the facts of their Council is that the proliferation of plans is mostly an exercise of propaganda; beautiful words that leave very little behind. What we still see is that austerity measures have consequences, perpetuate and aggravate the historical deficit of our educational investment. The continuing contradiction between official statements, which place education at the heart of the policies of the priorities of the Galician Union, and the concrete economic policies, which continue to diminish resources available in public classes while increasing the resources for concerted action. And you asked what citizens we want. So look, Counselor, obviating the basic mechanism by virtue of which we ask and you answer, and not vice versa, we do know what model we want: we want citizens and citizens with the best possible formation, with the future, proud and proud of what they are; we want to make the women and men of tomorrow free and happy people who don't have to leave this country. We also know what we don't want; we don't want children and children worried because they close their school; we don't want children and children who have cold classes, who don't get food from the dining room in time; we don't want children and children with special educational needs who come to change each year the specialist, with the problems that this carries; we don't want children and children who tell them that they can't, that they better go to the basic FP, that this is easier for them; we don't want children who think that because of this they don't have to take care of science, that this is better for fellows, who are smarter. We also want a counselor who, before coming to insult the opposition, knows how to update the prices and doesn't come here to read a wrong role by trying to put the error elsewhere. Note: the price change from 2008 to now, not counting this year, because we don't have the figure yet, was 14.7%, an accumulated figure. The data I gave you is exactly the update with that digit. I mean, let him do that we also know what we want. We know what we want: we want a teaching model 100 percent public, secular, quality, feminist, and I'm telling you one thing: we're going to keep working on it; the objective is well worth it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u163	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u164	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. Mrs. Chao, the truth is that I was telling you before and it is sometimes difficult to maintain a serious and rigorous debate with you, because if you are trying to argue over and over again in order to stay away from reality, it is difficult to reach a point of understanding. You went up here, you launched a rhetorical question about vocational training like this: why don't you talk about the work integration data of vocational training? But you didn't speak. I'm going to tell you: do you know what is the data of employment integration of vocational training in Galicia? 80%. Do you know what is the data for the inclusion of dual vocational training in Galicia? [[Applause]] Over 90%. [[Murmurs.]] So, if you want us to talk about it, we're talking about it, but we're talking about the data ahead, because if we go up here and do rhetorical questions, man! Do you know what the problem with rhetorical questioning is? That, if you don't give the answer, you can come behind whoever gave it to you and find yourself with the reality of the facts. But, ultimately, I do not want to continue, because — I say — it is very difficult to discuss with whom to draw up their arguments is far from the postulates that determine reality. Finally, Mrs. Rodil, I was speaking to you and I was doing a lot of fine-tuning on the subject of language, on the subject of linguistics. It is true that this is a battlehorse of the Galego Nationalist Block, and it seems to me to be good, it seems positive, but it cannot say that there is no linguistic policy in the Galician Union and cannot say that there is no legislative framework perfectly defined: the law of linguistic normalization, the plan of normalization of the Greek language and — yes — the decree of multilingualism. That's the language model of the Government of Galicia -- I've already told you on numerous occasions -- a linguistic model that is referred to by the Greeks and the Greeks on more than one occasion with most absolutes. [[Applause]] So don't ask us to change or question a model that when we present it to the citizen tells us that "right." Don't you like the Galician Nationalist Block? We understand and respect it, but you also have to understand and respect the position of this group and the position of the Greek society, which is to refer to this linguistic legislative framework that we have today in Galicia. Look, I'm telling you more, I'm going to read here a piece of an article on Thursday, January 24, in La Voz de Galicia, by Henrique Monteagudo, who tells us a little about reality; well, he gives us a few brushes. I'll read just a small fragment, which is the beginning of this article. He says: "Galicia is the European community with the greatest root of a minority language. More than 95% of the Greeks claim to understand the language of the country and around 90% claim to know how to speak it." You know that the fundamental function of a public administration, when we're talking about a language, is to give citizenship tools for its knowledge and use, and in this case we're talking -- I mean -- about the secretary of the Royal Galaga Academy, who says, "more than 95% of the Greeks claim to understand the language of the country and around 90% say they know how to speak it." "Four out of ten have it as their initial language, for three out of ten who have the Spanish and one out of four who have learned to speak in both languages. Out of every ten Greeks four alternate the use of the two languages in the day-to-day period. Three speak only in English and two speak only in Spanish." Hey! I don't see any imbalance in the data that the Secretary of the Royal Galeg Academy is providing in this article, but, well, if you want to see imbalance in the linguistic policy articulated by the Government of Greece, there you are. I say: it's a matter that we respect in your speech, but that, as you will understand, we do not share. And, Mr. Álvarez, you said to make a monograph on the state pact. Of course, of course we could do it, as if the work previously agreed was laid on the ground. It is that, moreover, here is a clear question: when this sub-committee begins, the PSOE was under political direction and under some political postulates that later, as the negotiation progresses, it would say — let us say — that it radicalized itself, but not, because it radicalizes at the end of you, who is a great Latinist, knows that it may have to do with "root" and adjust to its own postulates, after which, and in this case, all the opposite happened: they left the social democratic root and were by the branches more than the left-wing breaker and those environments that are not prone to consensus, and what they did was dynamize a pact in which you were actively participating in a simple political calculation. So how did they want to play that, so what did they finally show to Spanish society? That they cared about a comment in reality the education consensus. You used education as a purely partisan fighting tool and were at that time always giving it as a purely political calculation tool. Sure, what's going on? For it is the consequences of abandoning in many cases what are the principles at best of a political party such as the Socialist Party, which in many cases throughout history has shown that it is a party with a vocation of government and a vision of state but that in this case it has left the vision of state and the vocation of government for others and has decided to ramify itself, as it said before, by that more torn-off left wing, which runs away from the consensus — by saying so in some way—. Counsellor, I want, to finish, and as I said before, to thank you for your presence and to say, "We have talked about what society we want and what citizens we want for the society of the 21st century." We also want a free citizen society and we want an educational system that allows us to move forward towards the future. We don't want to be talking about educational systems that walk or have nostalgia from the past. We believe that society is moving inexorably towards the future and that the Government has to respond to these needs of the future. You continue on that path of conquering the future, that of the nostalgia of the past we will leave for others, who will remain in that, in nostalgic. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u165	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Close this meeting, Madam Education Advisor, University and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u166	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank, from humility, never from insult, for the suggestions that they make and I gather those that are done with solid pedagogic criteria, not those that rest on a clear ideological perspective that does not participate in coherent and realistic alternatives of execution. In the face of utopias, the Greek Government has all the competences it has assigned, it is developing an educational and university model, defined and differentiated. We are convinced and convinced that the way to help train the citizens we want to give impetus to the development of Galicia of the 21st century is this. Mrs. Rodil, in the first two minutes of my speech I've already mentioned that we want critical thinking in the student. The ratios are regulations that we scrupulously complied with and I remind you that we could go up the ratio in high school but we didn't. You're telling me we're going down the teachers' schedule to provide the same education service with more teachers. You'll have to explain it to the taxpayers. Your Honor, I am obliged to remind you that inclusion is compatible with the international conventions adopted by most democratic countries, but also sex teaching, and I don't tell you, the international courts. Your Honor, things have to come when they arrive and a new university will be approved by law, when it comes, which, by the way, is approved in this Parliament. Mr. Martínez, with all due respect, of course, the Government does not give up ruling. If you don't want to bring you closer to a better education system, it's your right. If in the first year there are fifteen centers, don't hesitate that for the bachelor's degree in the next summons, there will be more, and so I'm committed to doing it. The reflection on the number of students is as follows: we calculate the true dual FP, unlike other autonomous communities governed by you that count FP students who do not receive any kind of pay, which does not happen in Galicia. Mrs. Chao, as the spokesman said in this audience of the People's Party, employability in vocational training is more than 80% of the graduates and rises to more than 90% when it happens in the dual FP. Then they'll say it's propaganda data. You forget that when a computer is delivered to a student or student for free, families are committed to care for them and if they voluntarily miss it, they have to reboot it; that's only for a free digital education. Anyway, after this sort of apocalypse, I have to tell you that we're not doing so bad. Today's data: Galicia recorded in the fourth quarter of 2018 the lowest rate of early dropout since records are available, 12.6%, which means a 2.6-point decrease over the date of the same quarter of 2017. It's going to be that these boys who make basic vocational training don't leave their studies so quickly. This, coupled with the abandonment rate that closed in 2018 in Galicia, an average of 14.3%, shows that policies developed since 2009 are responding to one of the main objectives of any educational system: that no one abandons without finishing second-stage secondary education and without corresponding titration. They are also very concerned about the stabilization of the teacher. So I have to tell you that with an OPE which is the widest, as I said, of the last decade, in addition, a wide offer of vacancies will be made in the next transfer contest, which will allow a definitive destination much more in advance, guaranteeing a stability of the professor, who will not have to participate every year in order to obtain an interim destination. This will mean stabilisation of staff paintings, educational centers, significantly reducing that provisionality of what you are talking about and which concerns you so much. Despite its apparent reluctance to add up and contribute to the future of education for the Greeks and the Greeks, the Council of Education, Universities and Vocational Training will continue to work, it will continue to work to deepen the consolidation of Greek education and to advance on a path of excellence, but also of equity and inclusion, for the different teachings, and especially for vocational training, while we will continue to strengthen the coordination of the University System of Galicia. From the responsibility that Galicia is supposed to serve, I understand that the mission to be faced by the Council of Education, Universities and Vocational Training is to lead with concrete proposals the educational process of future generations of Greeks and Greeks. The Greek education system today means a bet on multilingualism, technologies, inclusion, integration and the re-evaluation of vocational training. Coeducation and the good climate of coexistence contribute to building this model that promotes continuous improvement. We continue to bet on turning Galician educational centers into real learning spaces, into real innovation spaces, which meet quality standards, both in their facilities and infrastructures and in the development of the process of a defined educational model, an educational model supported by innovative projects. The whole education system must center its students and students, with innovative, time-consuming projects, and, together with that, equip the teacher with the necessary mechanisms throughout his career, from the very beginning, to ensure success in the teaching and learning process. Moreover, the educational process needs the involvement of families, families that demand their freedom of choice of center and the educational model that they want for their children. And, of course, the Greek Government is fully aware that the development of Galicia of the future needs a university system adapted to the 21st century and committed to the formation and management of talent. Faced with the alarmist visions that omit, they forget reality, I reiterate once again the explicit commitment of the Union to the public university, the modernization of higher education and the role played by the University System of Galicia as a catalyst for the productive fabric of our community. I hope that they will reflect and finally value what initiatives such as the Edulingue 2020 strategy — and apologize for repeating 2020 as a kind of key date — as well as the updated implementation of the Galician Digital Education Strategy, the promotion of equality and co-education from a perspective of comprehensive positive coexistence, with Educonves and the first Action Plan for Equality in Galician Educational Centres, and the improvement of lecturer skills and research skills and the use of information by the student from the school curriculum. The creation of the Greek space of good educational practices, the novelty that we present in this audience, so that educational agents can exchange experiences and access all the information, complementing the family portal and the management portal. The bet on the inclusion of all students, regardless of their abilities, with the design of a plan for the dynamisation of vocational and vocational orientation in the educational centres of Galicia, the opportunity that the Galego Centre for Innovation of Vocational Training in Ourense, the consolidation of the Greek university system with the stability that gives the funding plan up to 2020 to advance on the map of titrations, and the decalogue of measures of the University Excellence Plan. The evolution of the Welsh research strategy in university, with the specialization of campuses and development of the singular and research centers, along with the activation of the research talent capture and retention plan. Since we're talking about authors, let me metaphorically take Italo Calvino — I don't know if you like it, Mrs. Rodil — by putting in place an educational system that avoids imaginary states, in which quality is measured by measures taken to give way to the news, that avoids an understanding adjusted to instant use, designed to be used once again, an educational system that ultimately pursues commitment to a learning process that must be sustained in solid and lasting foundations. I am finished with a positive and hopeful message: Galicia has a defined and differentiated educational and university model, supported by both quantitative and qualitative results, and which advances in giving continuous response to the challenges of the 21st century. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u167	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u168	We continue on the agenda, now with the two changes that have already been communicated here to the Presidency. Developmental modification to plenary meeting
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u169	In particular, we are now debating this question. La Maria Luisa Pierres López and four other members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the policy of the Greek Government in the field of gender violence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u170	To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u171	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Mr. Rueda, Mr. Feijóo said in an interview just a few days ago, "I'm told by Vox's proposals about women and autonomy, but the pact is sensible." That's as much as saying, "We have Vox's proposals, but that's what there is!" [[Applause]] What do you think of this, Mr. Rueda? "What's the matter with you"? Is there any wisdom in dealing with those who pay attention and try to dynamize the struggle for women's equality? How will you explain it to the Galicians? Because, in the face of this claim, to break up Vox in Galicia, what does that mean? That maybe they have to deal because "is that what's going on?" Where are your red lines from your group's commitment to equality policies? What is the degree of maturity of that commitment? Because, Mr. Wheela, you will know that, when you are young or young, at the edge of your age, if you can be more or less mature; in fact, there are children who even at the most childish stage surprise everyone for reasoning that they are not own—so it is said—of your age; it usually relates to boys that by a hard or intense experience, if you come into need to mature before time. But there are other children and children who, even, have passed adolescence and are already entering the adult stage, it's hard for them to reach maturity; they're people who find it hard to take responsibility and make decisions for themselves. And that's where good training is one of the keys to overcoming that phase. And the feeling we have from the Socialist Group is that, in the current context, the People's Party has taken a huge step back, from the hand mainly of Mr. Casado; it has been situated in political adolescence and immaturity, in which it sadly rivals itself for being an alpha male from the political scene, with declarations that erode the long-standing work of equality, and in an exercise of irresponsibility unforgivable. [[Applause]] My companion Mr. Losada called it today as this is the era of popular politics "without complexes," but I would rather think of it as a phase "of cod and acne without complexes." From our group we hope that you, on the other hand, will be upset, very upset, with Mr. Casado's statements and other popular charges over the past few weeks. And we're waiting for it because you know very well that the joint work on such important issues as the state pact against gender violence and many of the measures taken in it. And although you will understand that we don't really care about your image as a group, we do hope that they will be seen again in the mirror of equality, and especially because you are the ones who have the responsibility of government in Galicia and therefore have to work on the policies to be applied, and also in the matter of equality. And what we're going to demand is maturity and commitment. And you can't defend equality by playing with it, using speeches loaded with inconsistencies and intentional false messages. Work for equality cannot be allowed to cracks or cracks that cause the collapse and the overthrow of everything built in time. And lately it's not that there were cracks in speeches; what's happened is a true earthquake of disincentives, too many ideological titubes, too many and irresponsible political declarations and too much testosterone in the environment of national politics, which have also turned the feminist struggle into an adversary to slaughter. [[Applause]] As you will understand, all this has confused and alerted all those and those we believe and defend equality. It's more, if you remember, a little more than a year ago, we were talking about the surveys that the Fademur federation, of Greek rural women, presented in Galicia. If you remember, one of the conclusions that most drew attention was that only 55% of the respondents answered correctly about what is the concept of "generous violence." Mr. Rueda, I'm sorry to confirm that Mr. Pablo Casado is also among those 45% who don't know what gender violence is, because he confuses gender violence with domestic violence. Or didn't you confuse her and then you wanted to confuse her? What's worse? You tell me, when you open up to Vox's postulates, when you said that the laws of violence must also defend men, obviating the structural inequality that only affects women for the fact that they are. And the truth is that there is no law in Spain, state or autonomous, which questions the need for them. More importantly, if you have had a good look at the appearances of the Equality Commission, none of the attendings has ever doubted the necessity and origin of the laws, because no one has expressed any doubt about the profound social inequality in which women live by the fact of being, that is, for a clearly gendered reason. And not only does the vast majority of society believe in the origin of laws, but it has given them the important process of social awareness in our country about the seriousness of violence against women. And in spite of all this, today some political forces expose, without decorum, a demolition of the entire structure of prevention, care and protection of women victims of gender violence, as if 983 women murdered since we have data — 58 of them in Galicia — and an average of 150,000 annual complaints of ill-treatment were not enough to reject and isolate those who made their political flag machism. The feminist movement informed him just a few days ago, with a manifesto and his presence on the streets throughout Galicia, also throughout Spain. They made it clear in the matter of equality: not one step back. It's not politics — and you know it — or laws that give privileges, it's a question of balance and social equality. And maybe we're alarmed and alarmed for no reason, and that's why I'm going to read a series of statements and you tell me if they seem worrying or not. The first one I already confirm to you, by the way, that it's not Mr. Tellado's, though it might look like it, but in this case it's not. The phrase says that "there is nothing more obvious than feminism, which only speaks of women." This statement, by Isabel Díaz Ayuso, her candidate precisely to the Madrid Community, a woman who, by the way, does not surprise us by her great work on ideological transparency, with such clarifying phrases as well as that "You don't propose anything that I haven't seen before within the PP." But I have two other phrases -- one sentence that says, "It helps 100 people who are abused when only three are real," and another sentence, "Most of the allegations of gender-based violence have no real basis or basis." These phrases that I just read to you, these are, yes, representatives of Vox, and they are the kind of messages that try to discredit the victims and the origin of the laws of gender violence. But of course, the greatest disincentive comes when you discover, precisely, that Vox's ideas, as I've already commented and also support Mrs Ayuso, are not things she hadn't seen before in the People's Party. And you are right, because Mr. Casado has stated that "any party that proposes that victims of other sex also have that protection, that attempts to limit false complaints and that it is clearly attempting to define that such aid is not likely to create chiringuits, those parties within the Constitution may sit down to negotiate these policies." I think someone will have to explain to Mr. Married that it's politically indecent to make fun of this. Identifying these issues as problems to address gives credibility to those who question the necessary equality policies and who want to dynamize the achievements that feminism has conquered in our country. This kind of statement only leads to the ignition of the dangerous mixture of disbelief and victim revitalization. And as you appear today to answer what kind of measures will start with the funds of the state pact, I think it is clear to you that training is one of the most important points to point out, for all the social agents involved in the fight against gender violence, but also for all those with political responsibilities. It is of no use to make pacts of Compostela with the media, neither to form judges nor to form Thursdays, educators, police forces in the matter of equality, if soon people come like Mr. Married and throws down everything built in time. He'll understand we're worried. That's why I ask you to help us understand all this, namely why the steps since March 8 are no longer firm, to clear our fears about the ideological nonsense of your party and to know clearly what the battery of measures that will start with the funds of the State covenant will be, what actions will be strengthened, which will be introduced as news and what the planned distribution will be. And most importantly, you answer us if you really believe in equality. Nothing else for now and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u172	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pierres. Mr. Rueda Valenzuela has the floor of the Vice-President and Counsellor, Public Administration and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Pierres, by placing things a little bit, you bring me here to Parliament to answer an interpellation whose questions were: in what kind of actions or measures will the funds received from the State covenant against gender violence be applied, what news will be contained and what will be the planned distribution? My conclusion is that this gives you exactly the same. That's what's happening! [[Applause]] It's the same! [[Applause]] Married, ignorant, alpha male, cove and acne, ideological nonsense, testosterone, Isabel Díaz Ayuso... is this what you care about the fight against gender violence? [[Murmurs.]] Is that what you care about from a government after you have agreed here in the Galician Parliament and reached an agreement unanimously to take the Senate and then incorporate into the state pact against gender-based violence? [[Murmurs.]] This is what they care about. That's what they care about when the pact is under way, when we're already putting in place measures, when they're already being applied. They don't care exactly. Interpellation recorded before my appearance, and they had to put it now to speak of what they really care about, which is, well, to get into the People's Party, to question everything, and of gender-based violence says absolutely nothing. We're not going to fall into that trap as long as they try. I am most grateful that you say in the same text of your inquiry — probably not read, because, if not, I don't explain what you just said here — "all institutions have to row together in the purpose of the fight against gender violence, over political formations and partisan strategies." What an example of coherence with what you just said here! He won't catch us in this absurd argument. Neither disqualifications against members of any party nor to say that they have absolute truth and others must always be justified before those who do not care about this matter, and you proved it here today. I come here to talk to you about what you asked me, although you didn't ask me about it; you asked me in your interpellation, which I -- I insist -- probably didn't read, because you took advantage of something you were registered to do exactly the opposite that you say in the interpellation, which is partisan strategy at the expense of women. That's what you did. [[Applause]] It is as if forty-seven women killed and three minors died in 2018; it is true that in Galicia they were three: Magdalena Moreira, Maria Judith Martins and Ana Belén Varela. That doesn't matter! The important thing is to join the People's Party. The important thing is probably to do what you've been told, which is to try to wear, try to demagogy, which is what we've always tried not to do in this Parliament. What has served the consensus at our own time? What was it worth saying that there wouldn't be partisan strategies for a subject that mattered to us all? So you can come here now and do exactly the opposite, Mrs. Pierres? Why don't you give him exactly what we're doing? Then I'll tell you, though I know you don't care, because you didn't ask me about it! She told me — I'm telling you — about testosterone, marriage, Isabel Díaz Ayuso... but what do you care about women who are victims of gender-based violence now in Galicia? What's in it for them? I think you'll take a lot more advantage of what the Government of Greece is doing with money, with public resources from the state pact to try to put an end to this scourge. I guess that's what he had to care about you. Of course, this interpeleration has shown quite the opposite. But I've already told you that we're not going to fall into that demagogy and we're going to do exactly what you claim: that this is going to be something above partisan strategies. [[Applause]] So, even if you don't care much, I'll tell you that women's complaints are rising fortunately. In 2018 the Greek courts recorded 1,784 complaints in Galicia, 43,560 in the Spanish ensemble; they went up to Galicia, women are reporting more. So even though this can make statistics grow, it teaches us that we're on the right track. How many more complaints, more sensitization and more women dare to break up with their situation. There is 12.3% rise in Galicia against the state as a whole, which is 2.3%. The good news is that there are more complaints, because we know that there are cases that are not reported, and therefore what we want is that there are complaints so that these women can start to get out of their situation and also put the batter into the situation they deserve. I suppose this doesn't matter to you, but I'm going to tell you, because I think that's what people want to hear, out of what they want to hear their party and out of what orders they give you to try to wear out by making demagogy of something you shouldn't do at all. As I said, on November 30, I came to explain measures. If you want, I'll repeat them again, and give me all the appearance and replica. Yes, if you probably don't know them, indeed, with what you just said here; and if you know them, give them exactly the same, forgive me for saying it. No one can think after hearing it, Mrs Pierres, that you care about the measures being taken by the German Government — I insist — with public resources and after a consensus from this Parliament. You tried to wear support, slogans from the Socialist Party, because they probably told you that's what I had to do. But I'm telling you there. I'll speak to you as a member of a government that has this responsibility. New measures — I'll tell you, if you want in the replica then I'll explain everything else — since my appearance. New performances for the victims. We activate the protection of comprehensive assistance to orphans and orphans who are victims of gender-based violence — pioneers in the State, Mrs Pierres. I suppose this will matter to you, I suppose you'll deserve some comment, or maybe not. We signed at the beginning of January the agreement with the professional schools and associations involved in the process, 30,000 euros of investment; it would, of course, have been necessary, depending on the number of cases — which I hope is not necessary —. What do we intend? To accompany and advise children under 30 years of age, children and children of fatal victims of gender-based violence in Galicia, as well as people who take over their guardianship, who often see themselves unprotected and have no government help when we're talking about cases of minors under 18. And we're going to support them, of course, in all the administrative procedures they have to do to support those minor orphans. What steps have we taken with this agreement that we have signed? Measures 172, 210 and 213 of the pact. I said it because that's what I was asking, though it probably doesn't wake up. Second novelty measure as regards 30 November. We launched a shelter specialized in women with mental illness who are victims of gender-based violence in the Navy. And you'll understand you didn't give the location. It is the first of these characteristics in Galicia and accounts for 70,000 euros of investment. He's going to have places to fully address women in this situation that they need, as well as their sons and daughters. And we're going to provide them with accommodation, maintenance and the support they need. I've already told you it's a pioneering measure, of course, in Galicia and probably in the state as a whole. And, moreover, it is a resource that complements the reception network available and fits within measure 168 and 179 of the State covenant. And in addition, we're going to put into operation this same year a new shelter protected for women victims of trafficking for sexual exploitation. As soon as it is put into operation, we will, within the necessary confidentiality and discretion, give the necessary data. Third measure. In the Official Journal of Galicia on January 3, we published the new order of periodic aid for victims of gender violence. What's new? The order rises this year to 5.1 million euros, which is 1.4 million euros more than the previous call. And for the first time it will include how you would benefit women whose sons or daughters were murdered by the male aggressor. In addition, the resolution will be amended to comply with an agreement of this House itself, so that women with less income or equal to twice the IPREM can also benefit. So far — as you know — the threshold was lower and it was 1.5 the IPREM and, from there, you couldn't get these help. Now we're expanding the number of women who can benefit from this help. In addition, we will include compensation for orphans and orphans who are victims of male violence and a new line of compensation for women who are seriously injured and need to be hospitalized. So far there were no aid to women in this case and in this state of need; measures 72 and 75 of the State covenant. With regard to the municipalities, which are the administrations closest to the citizens, and therefore they are the ones that can often get faster and, above all, more effectively to help victims of macho violence, last Wednesday we held a meeting with the president of Fegamp to let him know the steps we are going to take through the local entities within the state pact against gender violence; 2 million euros; measure 175 of the pact. This is about measures that involve an economic endowment and are new. Prevention and awareness-raising measures. We're going to incorporate a new line, the call for aid to promote equality in local authorities in Greece; 800,000 euros; measures 5, 24, 31, 34, 35, 256 and 280 of the pact. And we developed, by the way, at Christmas, recently finished, a campaign to promote the use of toys without sexist stereotypes: 150,000 cartels, 100,000 markers, collaboration of the Bulletins, because we went mainly to the children's audience. The campaign was called "Toys for Equality. We play the same. Toys don't have sex." And, of course, we are also preparing all the acts referred to on 8 March and the posters of the campaigns that will commemorate this date, apart from other means that we will announce in due course. All of this is embodied in the state pact, Mrs Pierres, which we've been on for about a month this year. And we're doing a lot of things and a lot more than they'll do. I'm telling you, I don't want to repeat what I announced at my November 30 show. I'm sorry, but this is what a serious government is doing. If what you want is demagogy, insult, disrespect, attempting to get electoral revenue out of such a serious issue, you won't find it in this government. You can go out here, you can say that this is pride, you don't want to answer your provocations; it's just responsibility, that you should have; and today you've done absolutely opposite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u174	Thank you very much, Vice President. In the replica round, Mrs. Pierres López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u175	Mr. Rueda, I see that you are very worried about what you think the Socialist Party has sent me to do. And the question I ask myself is, what did Mr. Married do to you? Because you're really uncomfortable. [[Applause]] And the other question that concerns us all is, what are you willing to do if you have to deal with Vox tomorrow? [[Applause]] What are you willing to do? [[Murmurs.]] You talk about important steps and announce measures within the state pact. It is true that there is a unique opportunity to take steps forward with the more than 8 million euros that come from the state pact. And you also know that that pact was only activated when a socialist government entered the Moncloa. And it was not because of Mr. Rajoy's lack of time, but because he didn't feel committed to him. [[Applause]] Faced with Mr. Rajoy's passivity, Mr. Sánchez's implications and convictions. The pacts. Mr. Rueda — and you know —, beyond the roles, budgets make pacts and policies viable. And this year Galicia receives funding from the state that goes beyond that realized by the Union; an important impulse that comes with a socialist government and fully involved in equality policies. It is true — I will be frank — that after March 8 our group trusted, I trusted! and many women and men in Greece were confident that the impulse on the side of the Union would be greater, much greater. But the contribution of the Union this year not only equates not with that of the State, but also does not equate those of the European social funds; it is the lowest of the three; 6.6 million is the reserve of funding from the Union to work in conciliation, in actions for equality and in protection and support for women victims of gender violence. And this doesn't seem like too big a boost. And you know why I'm saying that? As regards 2018, the increase in funds from the Galician Union is only 1.1 million; this is to allocate 0,01 % of the total budget of the Union to increase these shares. That's what I call a mindless policy, because it's an absolutely ridiculous impulse. [[Applause]] And — understand me well — Galicia receives money from the state and the European Social Fund because it deserves it. And we applaud that these matches contribute to the implementation of equality policies in our community. But Galicia, the Greek women and all those involved in equality deserve much more, much more. We have already asked you in a number of interventions to take into account that some more than 3.15 million from the state pact were granted by the rural condition of Galicia. And we ask him to work in this direction by supporting one of the most vulnerable women's groups, for their most marked isolation, for the difficulty of accessing the services and for the social invisibility they suffer. I'd like you to move me that percentage of the funds will be destined for these women. And we also asked him to give significant support to the CIM network, to pay attention to the requests and suggestions in the annual reports that he received from the professionals who work in them. Many issues are raised in these memoirs, through improvements in training, relationships between centres, resources and human resources. It is necessary to continue to strengthen neighbourhood policies and support local authorities, and especially after the Councils' recovery of powers in the field of gender violence. And it must be made a priority to ensure that comprehensive and quality service for all the women of Greece, regardless of their location on the territory, by improving accessibility to services, by consolidating that integrated CIM network throughout the territory, with special attention to victims and specific plans that favor the prevention of violence, especially in rural areas of Greece; and in order to ensure that integral network it is also necessary to promote institutional cooperation among the CIM itself. And our group is asking you, beyond the victim care policies, please work tirelessly on prevention, education and awareness-raising. We have to work to cut down Machism, we have to stop the messages that seek to erode progress on equal terms, and we have to show that it can be, beyond acne, beyond the cove and the aspirations of the alpha males. Because we don't conform and we don't want a step back, women will continue to demand equity and equality. [[Applause]] And then I tell you that today we socialists will be pushing for this to happen as soon as possible, they like Mr. Casado, Mr. Feijóo and Mr. And Mrs. Vox's ladies and gentlemen. That's "that's what there is," that feminist socialists will be for a while. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u176	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pierres. The Vice-President and President-in-Office, Public Administrations and Justice, Mr Rueda Valenzuela, have the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Pierres, I am glad that she has rectified; she has named the marriage only three times now in this reply; the other time she has named it six or seven; she has focused a little more on what to focus on. It's just that this is really the way it is. I really appreciate it. It is that you and your group are not aware that there was a consensus in this Parliament, of what we all put in value, precisely because it was something that we had to value; and that was the message that we conveyed to society: we were able to agree on something so fundamental above the differences that we might have. So we took him to the Senate and we were the only autonomous community that was able to do so, and then I want to think that he largely joined the state pact that was signed with a People's Party government and set up with a government of the Socialist Party, and both merit have one another, and that's the way. That's why, of course, if you want to think that it was the Socialist Party that put in motion — logically, there was a motion of censure and, therefore, it touched on you to do so — the one who put the slogan was a government of the People's Party. Do you have more merit than others? No, no, no, no. I think everyone understood this was necessary. But if we start to argue now, as you want to do this offensive — that I know this interpellation comes for that, because they had an instruction from the Socialist Party that you yourself recognized —, I don't know what you're coming to tell me now that you're telling them. Of course they told him in the Socialist Party, because you publicly said they were going to do an institutional offensive to put the test, to see if it was true that the People's Party is committed to equality and to the fight against violence. Of course, Mrs. Pierres, of course we're engaged. But what do you think? That this is a party heritage nothing more?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u178	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u179	I guess someone from your group would now tell you about these conversations you were having while I was speaking: don't tell them about marriage or tell them little, because they're not interested in talking about marriage. We're not interested in talking about either Casado or Isabel Díaz Ayuso at all. But do you think a government that wants to put in place measures against macho violence is interested in talking about something else but that? Do you really think that, speaking of demagogy and trying to make party politics, we're going to move on? [[Applause]] Look, I could tell you that in that alternative budget that you presented in the transversal amendments to the equality of struggle against gender violence there was no euro of increase. Is that what you're worried about? [[Murmurs.]] And we're told that we have no interest in counting amounts when we're the only autonomous community that's now giving aid to victims of masculine violence, 5.1 million euros, has just increased by more than a million. I see that gave him exactly the same. You had written that money had to be said to come from the state and come from Europe. What's the matter with those who're coming? And in the end, it's also public resources that come from the Greeks and the Greeks and we dedicate them to where to dedicate them. And here we have to spend a lot of money, of course. It's not just a matter of public resources, but it's also a matter of public resources, and that's why we have a bigger budget than ever, and of course, a very important part of that budget comes from the state pact against gender violence, which neither the Socialist Party nor the People's Party put on it by their taxes, and we have the responsibility to spend it well. That's why I won't spend a minute more arguing with you neither of Married or of Isabel Díaz Ayuso nor of anything at all. That's what they care about you, that's what they care about you in that institutional offensive, which, as you've seen, they've lost all sorts of initiative, because people are realizing that against masquerade violence must be effective and stop fighting partisans, you don't understand and follow this. [[Applause]] It doesn't contain the German Government. When you want to talk about effective measures, you'll have me here; when you want to do PSOE politics, talk to the PSOE, don't talk to the Government of the Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u180	Thank you very much, Counselor. We moved on to the next interpellation. Interpellation by D. Luís Villares Naveira and Da Carmen Santos Queiruga, from G.P. in Marea, on the policy of the Greek Government on negotiating agreements with organizations that question self-government, human rights and the fundamental principles of coexistence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u181	To make an inquiry, Mr. Villares Naveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u182	Good afternoon. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, after the Andalusian elections were held last December, we actually attended a negotiation process to form a new government in that autonomous community that I called into question the democratic pillars of the state and that soon was blessed by leaders of the People's Party in our own country: by Elena Muñoz, by the Vice-President of the Galician Union, who today will answer this question, and by President Alberto Núñez Feijóo himself. We think these P.P.D. congratulations are not casual. The historical configuration of the right in Galicia, the result of cultural continuity with respect to the Frankish right, has established a very far-reaching political plage on the democratic, republican, lay and meaningful civil rights of the European right. This inertia, hidden during the Fraga era with a galeguist varnish, will allow the People's Party to have in Galicia for almost forty years living in its own bosom different ideological currents united around sources of autonomous and provincial power. The first trial of Citizens and then of Vox introduces a right-wing recomposition factor in the Spanish field to which Galicia will not be ally either, and in which Núñez Feijóo, as President of Galicia and in the face of the threat to the autonomous state itself and to fundamental principles and rights, cannot continue to be profiled. The arrival of Nuñez Feijóo to the presidency of the People's Party led to the fainting of this self-governing varnish, which is dismantled the piece of the party's idea, and since his own role as leader of the opposition in this House in the past decade prevents the German Parliament from addressing the initiative of the Statutory Reform launched from the Bipartite, at a time when other autonomous communities addressed statutory reforms with the so-called second-generation statutes and with new rights and major defining elements of its self-government. It was Alberto Núñez Feijóo who prevented a social status of autonomy for Galicia. As a result of this first betrayal of Nuñez Feijóo to Galicia, our country has lost the opportunity today to be, first of all, a vanguard among the autonomous communities that have approved the second-generation statutes and, secondly, to be part of the autonomous communities that have incorporated social rights letters that they assumed not only to strengthen self-government institutions but also to incorporate housing, education, health or social benefits rights. Last week Núñez wanted to start concealing his centralist heel in an autonomist, disguises that it does not fit into a reality: zero competences transferred during the black decade of the Albertist Autonomy. Not only have new powers been achieved, but it has been systematically voted against in this House during these years by opposition groups in this regard in matters such as prison health, fishing in inland waters or the surrounding train, formulated by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. This self-sustainment costume is not the only cosmetic change of Nuñez Feijóo; it's also his progressive costume. Núñez Feijóo has on several occasions remembered that he himself was a voter of the Socialist Party and of Felipe González in 1982, thus placing himself as a person of the majority who aspired to the modernization of Spain. This modernizing, moderate and even progressive image of Nuñez Feijóo that he sells himself has nothing to do with the reality that we have suffered not in this House, but above all the Greek citizenship outside this House, in terms of cuts, privatization of basic services and friendship with which he has acted throughout his entire time as president. Now, with the emergence of a liberal centrist party, Citizens, the difficulty in maintaining this modernizing discourse is complicated. With the birth of Vox, the ability of discursive transvestism of Nuñez Feijóo is already impossible. Let us now see what it means to abandon these democratic values to constitute a trident reactionary in Andalusia. Ladies and gentlemen, negotiations must always take place between legitimate parties in order to reach an agreement, and today there is a broad space within the European Union around which we cannot negotiate with forces which discuss the minimum democratic consensus and make the flag of Machism and xenophobia or lack of respect for sexual diversity. The document presented for their ultra-right negotiation with the People's Party in Andalusia puts this organization and those who negotiate or compromise with it out of respect for democratic values. There is a huge contradiction between defending democracy and sitting down to negotiate — and much less to agree — with those who defend and express positions which polythologists themselves call neo-fascists. We have to ask ourselves in this context if it is possible to build a democracy without values. A conquest of humanity as a whole was to recognize democracies not as mere rules of the majority but, above all, as rules of values. It was a historic conquest forged during the period of wars to recognize an axiological dimension of the democracies that crystallized definitely after the Second World War with the birth of the UN and its universal declarations of fundamental, civil and political rights, of children or the environment. Contemporary democracies are emancipating democracies of their citizens and citizens; they educate in equality and tolerance; they promote social cohesion, equal opportunities, access to culture, health and the environment; they create material conditions acceptable to human existence in food, clothing, housing and access to energy sources; they ultimately seek human dignity. However, at this moment the People's Party wants to teach us that there can be a new democracy, a democracy without values, a sort of pseudo-democracy. We are told that there may be most without principles, without respect to others, without tolerance or air for minorities. Ladies and gentlemen, from Marea we believe that we cannot call into question democratic advances of enormous silence such as the struggle for equality and against masculine violence, they cannot make up these premises for any negotiating table and we must draw up health cords that preserve our democracy. Spanish society as a whole has been shocked by agreements that open the door to the denial of male violence and the existence of a system of patriarchal domination, even unanimously recognized by the jurisprudence of the Spanish Constitutional Court, which in numerous judgments speaks of the historical inequalities to which the woman was subjected in relation to man and which must be corrected by positive discrimination, from which the negationists of Feijó's partner machism in the reactionary Tripartite. So now more than ever, remember Simone de Beauvoir when she remembered that any economic, political or religious crisis was enough for women's rights to be violated again. But the moral weakness of the negationist proposals does not end here. The partners on the right-hand side, on the far right, of the trident reactionary, aim to eliminate historical memory, prevent sexual education — fundamental to end male violence — and privatize education and health; together, a setback of decades in the field of rights and freedoms. Mr Vice-President was now speaking of consensus reached in this House. Well, I want to remember three. First of all, this House has reached consensus on democratic memory, historical memory, honoring and dignifying the people who gave their lives for democracy, well-being and social progress. What's going to happen to all this now, gentlemen of the People's Party? This House has unanimously agreed to institutional statements in defence of homosexual collectives and has meaning in defending cases of transgener and postulate their protection. What's going to happen now after these negotiations? Ladies and gentlemen, this House has also reached important consensus in the defence of the rights of migrant persons and refugees, who are now stigmatized by political forces that support the People's Party in government in Andalusia and whose president they demand hard hands, inhuman responses and mass deportations. The Allies of the People's Party in their trident reactionary frighten these social groups, waving fear and mistrust among the population, even encouraging chivatazos in hospitals. How can the People's Party — we ask — remain silent in the face of this troupe encouraged by its government partners? These are not the only areas where the democratic system is called into question. And this is something that also affects the political and institutional dimension of this House itself, ladies and gentlemen. The far right has formulated a scenario of the suppression of autonomous communities, a form of political expression of the national self-government of Galicia, as recognized in article 1 of our Statute of Self-Government. We believe that the citizenship of Greece neither recognizes nor condones a petition that denies us as a people, which has contributed beyond the last thirty-eight years to improve the living conditions of the Greek society. It does not seem casual — and so we think from En Marea — that, a week before the debate in this House, Alberto Núñez Feijóo disguises himself as an autonomist in order to try to stem the criticisms that can repair this pact of his party, which, in addition, portrays him as: a politician not committed to politics in Galicia, with the autonomy of his country, who has not achieved a single transfer of competence during his black decade and who has also been responsible for the failure of the statistic reform of the past decade. Well, the time for this government's ambiguity is ending. As leader of the People's Party, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, the vice president may incur political contradictions that the electorate allows, but this Parliament and the Government of Greece cannot play ambiguity when the agreements and agreements on the right with the extreme right in the state question the self-government of Galicia and the autonomous state, attack women's fundamental rights, challenge the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and destroy the fundamental principles of coexistence. And that's why we have been asking the Government since the Tide Group, asking what valuation makes the People's Party pact with political organizations that propose the suppression of our self-government, which attack women's rights and freedoms, which aim at fundamental rights and question the fundamental principles of coexistence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u183	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Villares, I confess my confusion, or perhaps not. The truth is, you bring here today an interpellation that has nothing to do with the performance or the competences of the German Government. Maybe I shouldn't have been very confused, because it's not the first time; it probably won't be the last time; the truth is that he does it quite often, but I have to say that this time, in my opinion, has passed. And it was difficult, because it didn't ask me for actions by another government that could affect Galicia — perhaps — or even for questions from another government that could affect another government that wasn't the Greek — if it was going to be over — but no, no, it is absolutely clear and it is asking for negotiations that have been carried out by several parties in another autonomous community to form government in an autonomous community, another one, which has nothing to do with the Autonomous Community of Galicia, which, as far as I know, is what this Parliament is dealing with. So, I really have to confess my inconsistencies and of course I have to make a recognition: very well we have to be doing so from the Government of Galicia to ask you this kind of question. I really appreciate the acknowledgement you make, because if in a control session of the Government of Galicia you come to ask me about the conversations you've had parties, some of them that don't even have representation in Galicia, to reach an agreement in another autonomous community, and you have nothing but to ask about the competences that I have to exercise, you mean that we are doing very well, or, rather, a good attempt — what happens is not to glue them — of smoking curtain not to talk about things you probably don't like to talk about, which is about the problems you have; then try to divert attention and we're going to talk about the things you're doing in other autonomous communities. [[Applause]] Mr Villares, I do not understand what the relationship of the Greek Government is with all this. You imagine, Mr. Villares, that the People's Group had brought me here — which I could do — to ask what was the opinion of the Galician Council on the fear that Mr. Erregón had just done in Madrid; he could do it, and it would look like. [[Murmurs.]] So you'd say, "Hey!" but what does the Greek Government have to say about all this? Well, it's exactly the same. I mean, whether you want to see it or not you can't see it, or -- I insist -- maybe you want to divert attention. You may think the Government of Galicia is for that. Well, I'm sorry, but we're not for that. We're for things that affect Galicia, and as much as you want to make some kind of relationship, some kind of direct affect, there isn't. We have a lot of problems, we have a lot of things to solve, a lot of things to improve, but fortunately this is not a problem of what the Galician Union has to deal with. I don't even know if that's a problem. I know, Mr. Villares, that in Andalusia there were elections, and therefore if what you want to know is the opinion of the Council of Galicia, the Council of Galicia seems good to you that the Andalusians voted and elected their Government. I don't know if the tides of We can bother them that did this, but this is democracy, which you didn't invent. And so this is democracy, there's a government, and the duty of the Galician Union is to try to have the best relations with all the autonomous communities and all the democratically elected governments. Everything else, Mr. Villares, are smoke curtains, which probably come to you very well, but don't tell the Government of Galician Union for that, that we're not for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u185	Thank you, Mr. Rueda. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u186	Ladies and gentlemen, it is surprising that the vice president of a democratic self-government is puzzled because they ask him about fundamental rights, who is puzzled because they ask him about women's rights, who is puzzled because they ask him about the survival of autonomy itself, when he is vice president of an autonomous government. It's really amazing, because that's why we've been asking him, and it's also in the written text. It's in the written text...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u187	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u188	...—you can read the interpellation, if you want—in your exhibition and in your text, and you were also asked about it. It is disconcerting that the vice president squanders the opportunity, first of all, to defend Galician autonomy against those who propose its suppression. That's just disconcerting. It is disconcerting that you avoid speaking about the defence of fundamental rights, to begin with, the principle of equality between women and men, but not only, but also the survival of fundamental rights as we know them today in contemporary democratic societies, because that is not a matter that affects only an autonomous government: it affects all of us and all of us who live together in this democratic system. And besides -- it's already a coincidence -- it's one of the essential negotiating elements of that government that belongs to its own party, and that's exactly why you made public statements in that sense. Then, as long as you go out making public statements, you'll have to be able to come here to the House to answer your own statements by blessing that government. And the question we ask you again is whether you agree that this government is legitimate non-democratic, materially non-democratic practices. It's not that if there is a majority or there is no majority; it's that part of those who make up that majority defend values that are not democratic. And we're wondering if you agree with those values or not. And if with that government of what you're defending, too, that legitimacy if you're going to agree with them, for example, to take photographs as the president of the Union took yesterday with other presidents of other autonomous communities, if you're going to do it in the same terms with those governments that don't respect fundamental rights. Well, I could answer all of this if I had the will to do it. And about things you can or can't think about, of course, you as a government think you shouldn't think about it. It is surprising, then, that at European level both the French Government and the German Government have particularly meant, within the European Union, warning about going against this kind of pacts that the People's Party has just signed in Andalusia, because it means the collapse of a consensus at European level on political isolation of those who do not respect the rules of democratic coexistence, the rules that have so far allowed us to make policies that have allowed us to overcome, not without difficulties — and we are seeing it, not without difficulties — the historical inequality in which women live with respect to the abuses suffered by men of an institutional nature. [[Murmurs.]] Well, because you had opportunities, you have a chance to speak up now about all this. Why don't you? The French Government and the German Government have spoken explicitly, censoring the People's Party to do so, reminding him that there are things that are above the competence framework and that have to do with democratic consensus throughout Western Europe. And you're skipping those rules. And you go out to the media, you, too, the president of the board, Elena Muñoz, among other leaders of the People's Party in Galicia -- that's why the issue is not alien to our country and to the politics of our country -- to mean positively in relation to that pact. And we asked ourselves, "What has to happen to you to disallow that covenant?" What has to happen for you to disallow these kinds of new political slogans, which we consider, of course, that have nothing to do with our democratic tradition? We said from the outset: it is not possible, and we understand that it is not possible in Galicia to reach agreements with political forces that do not respect the minimum consensus, in the field of fundamental rights and in respect of another government. And it seems to us that what it has been doing, particularly in the last week, the President of the Galician Union himself, in disguise as an autonomist, after ten years of not receiving Galicia a single transfer and not fighting for them, in addition, just at a time when his government partners in Andalusia propose nothing more and nothing less than the suppression of autonomy, the suppression of autonomy!, we are not talking about recentralizing one thing, no, we are talking about suppressing autonomy, deleting this House, we are talking about deleting this House, and you have nothing to say in the defence of Galician self-government against your government partners in Andalusia, who are proposing to abolish its government and to you as vice-president? [[Murmurs.]] Man, something will have to say! So that's what we saw today: if, as vice president of the Government of Galicia, he has something to say in defense of the autonomy of Galicia, his self-government and in defence of fundamental rights, specifically of the principle of equality between women and men, and the rights of minorities, especially those who have the least chance to defend themselves and who expect a democratic government that defends and enforces their rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u189	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Close this interlocution, Vice-President and Chairlor, Public Administration and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u190	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Villares, do you know what makes me funny about all this, if this was funny, what's wrong with you? That you've already found another extreme right, because up to fifteen days ago the extreme right was the PP, now there's another one, now it turns out we're no longer the extreme right. We're where we've always been, and I'll tell you where we're never going to be. None of those who are here, on this bench, wrote a tweet, none of those who are going to be left — the truth is, they're less and less in the Podemos Tides, saying what you said to a maximum leader of the People's Party: he's a miserable man and a fascist, but, as he won't resign, we've already confirmed in what kind of regime we live in. You all say it with a calmness disqualifying the adversary, directly insulting him. Of course, you dare always say one, not another. You come here to talk about extremism and you haven't been able to disauthorise anyone from your bench, and we all remember here the display of the T-shirt "Keys, I swear, we'll vote for Maduro." They haven't been able, they've never had the enormous cowardice of never saying what's going on with the 40,000 Galicians who are suffering in Venezuela and those of whom you don't say a word. That's extremism, Mr. Villares. [[Applause]] What happens is that you, with that moral superiority that you always have, always see evil in others and never look at yourself; otherwise, this discussion would end right now. [[Murmurs.]] What's going on is that I know you're not going to argue or you're never gonna finish. Look, what's the question? If the Government of Galician Unity has any doubts in the struggle, without taking a step back, against the violence of the macho? I think you have no doubt. Another thing is what I have to say here to argue a little about the interpellation, but I think it has already been answered in my previous intervention. Otherwise, there's no doubt. Sometimes it's necessary, when you come to ask questions about things that really matter to the Greeks and not about agreements that are made in other autonomous communities, we'll talk about things that this government is dealing with, without any problem. But I don't honestly believe that you have any doubts about not taking a step back in the struggle against the masculine violence that this government has, which, in addition, is part of a consensus that came from this Parliament and that you devalue every day. And it's really a pity, because it was a very powerful deal, that the bad thing is that it's getting wet paper from its attitudes. I don't think I have any doubts about the state of autonomy in Galicia, either. I don't think I have any doubts. Mr. Villares, if you have any doubts, now that we are claiming the same competitive roof that other autonomous communities are given, you support everything that calls for the Galician Union, support how it must be supported, without discussion, without demagogy, without partisan postures; so we will do more force, which we will lack. Well, I can assure you that the whole position of the Socialist Party in Madrid in Mr. Sánchez is because he has a number of uncounted agreements with a number of forces that have to support him. They have no interest in giving Galicia any more powers, but we'll see if this Parliament's strength is useful for all of this, we'll see. There we will always meet, Mr. Villares, in asking questions, in questioning. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, if you come to say that the elections in Andalusia were not democratic and therefore you disallow them, probably because they were lost, because they were left outside the Government, because they expected them to be otherwise, that's what they always do. When they don't do well, then you have to disallow them and say that those who have had a better result or those who have formed the Government, have been in the formation of the Government, those are not democratic. What I told him in my first intervention -- that's democracy. You didn't make it up. No matter how much they want to reinvent it, democracy is this, it's not Venezuela's.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u191	Mr. Lake, be quiet. Silence, Mr. Lago! [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] Quiet. Mrs. Prado, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u192	And so, Mr. Villares, when you want to talk about topics that affect Galician Union, you'll always have me here. I, paraphrasing Mrs. Pontón, who is not here today, to fix the problems of Podemos, are not; for that, that we can fix them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-20-DSPG099.u193	Thank you, Mr. Rueda. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning.
