ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u1	Let's resume the session. And before I do, I must justify the in attendance of Mr. David Rodríguez of the Joint Parliamentary Group. We therefore proceed with the sixth item on the agenda, which corresponds to questions for the oral answer of the President of the Council of Galicia. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Antón Sánchez García of the G.P. of En Marea on the evaluation of the policies of the Italian Government on housing
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u2	Whenever you want, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u3	Good morning to all of you. Good morning, Mr. Feijó. You can read from there what you put on this shirt, right?"defense the Galician." It defends the Galician people, as they have been defending the professionals and professionals of the Greek media for 68 weeks, defending them from their information manipulation for their own benefit and their party; information manipulation, among other things, to cover their policies against the social majority — including housing policies. [[Mr. Sánchez García marks the slogan written on his T-shirt.]] The right to a decent housing is the right to a worthy life. Many people in Galicia, Mr. Feijóo, do not enjoy this right because of policies supported in time by governments like their own, which prioritized housing as a business and not as a right. Between people's rights and the profit of speculators, you've always opted for speculators. They've always been with those who do right business, even if it's the cost of the suffering of a lot of people. Thus, it is understood that eleven years after the outbreak of the crisis, we continue to have unacceptable numbers of evictions in this country, that young people continue to have difficulties in getting out of their parents' homes and emancipating themselves, or that lower incomes pay more than half of their income to pay for their housing. If earlier the defeats were for mortgage executions, today 70% are for rent defaults on a market where prices continue to rise year by year without any instrument regulating them. So, year after year, they're around 2,500 years old, and they're going up. From that point of view, if you benefit from housing as a business and not as a right, you understand all your policies and actions in relation to housing. So you've been paralyzing the building of self-protection housing. In 2010 2,900 shelters were started in Galicia; in 2015, 5; in 2016, 4; in 2017, 5, Mr. Feijóo. In four years, 16 temporary housing qualifications for self-sustainment, when we have 13,000 persons in the plaintiff register who demand official protection housing. At the same time, in Euskadi, almost 5,000 homes; in Navarra, with four times less population, 1,760, etc. You also understand your defense of the speculative business of housing with the decline of budgets. In 2010 there were 162 million euros for public housing policies. This year you've assumed to budget half. If they used to mean 0.29 % of GDP, today they mean 0.13 % of GDP. And let's also talk about your star program, the empty housing program. You, who so much publicity did an instrument that you could mobilize...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u4	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u5	...some of the 300,000 empty homes in this country, because today you have to realize that in 2017 there were four aids received for owners who wanted to incorporate these homes into the program, four!, with a degree of execution of 3.32% of the program. You can be proud! And in 2018, you, with this star program for housing mobilization, gave two help across the country for owners who wanted to incorporate housing
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u6	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u7	I'll be done by now. I'll ask you the question. One moment, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u8	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u9	No shelter, no housing, no mobilization...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u10	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Sanchez, welcome to this new spokesperson for this new parliamentary group. You were talking about defending Galicia. Yesterday we were able to see what his degree of commitment to the defence of Galicia at the Congress of Deputies is. You speak of the need to increase the housing budget and your Members and their Members voted against unlocking the EUR 700 million in favour of the autonomous community. Mr. Antonio Sánchez, allow me to tell you that, about Galicia, you start quite badly. [[Applause]] If I had to hear what I just said about you, that a parliamentary group with representatives of the people of Greece in Congress votes against unlocking 700 million euros for the public services of Galicia, I would understand, Mr Sánchez, that you say that I am neither the Common Left Group nor anything. You're simply an arian in the hands of unknown interests to those who don't care for anything or Galician housing or public services in Galicia. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, when you do not defend Galicia, you lose in data and figures: housing park, growing; renting housing in the autonomous community funded by the Galician Union, 3,500; running housing, which we are currently building, 243; access to housing for the youngest, 2,200 rental bonds, which are currently enjoying 2,200 families of young people and girls in Galicia. But, thinking of the most disadvantaged, why the ancient Power Tides didn't do anything in the cities, because, look, there are twelve measures, and we saved nothing but 2,800 families of refugees, both with regard to the property of their homes and the rent of their homes. I insist that 2,800 families have maintained their homes thanks to the help of refugees. [[Applause]] Mr Sanchez, the problem is that we must come to Parliament with a minimum of data. Look, another of the things you referred to: the disadvantaged. Your Honor, do you know that in 90 percent of Galician territory, there are no taxes on low-income housing, for those under 35 and for large families? I repeat, in 90% of Galicia's autonomous community territory, they do not pay a euro for acquiring a home in low incomes, families numerous and those under 35 years of age. Is there any more social housing policy than I just mentioned? But as far as housing policy is concerned...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u12	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u13	...we are a key autonomous community on rehabilitation: 55,000 families have benefited from rehabilitation policies, rehabilitation aid and housing rehabilitation incentives. And you talk about yourself. Look, who owns the land in a city? The county. How many municipalities gave up a square meter of soil in the autonomous community to build housing? Can you say some county of the Tide of Podemos to give up a square metre to this Autonomous Community to build housing?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u14	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u15	Mr. Sánchez, alone, absolutely alone in housing policy, not counting on anyone's help, and today Galicia is a reference in housing policy for disadvantaged and low income. Nothing else and thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u16	Thank you, President. Mr. Sánchez's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u17	If the story wasn't so sad, they'd like to laugh at his last sentence, Mr. Feijóo. Is Galicia a state referee in housing policies? When you arrived, Galicia built one out of every 75 homes of protection throughout the state. Do you know how many start today? One out of every 14,000, Mr. Feijóo. It's a reference, yes, but of the housing policies that you also practiced in Madrid, favoring the vulture funds, and as they do here too, they're acting, impunity even, buying, as in Cambre, in Patina, self-protection housing for rent and endangering the lives of many people. Mr. Feijóo, we're going to end up calling him "Houdini": when he has no arguments, which is most of the time, he escapes as he can with issues that I really don't know what matters to people who have difficulty having a home. You have trouble locating, but you know you're president of the board of Galicia and you have to answer to give solutions to those people, which, in addition, Mr. Feijóo is not for jokes or jokes. One of the worst trances that can happen to a person or a family is to lose their housing. And in this country every day there are families and there are people who lose their homes. And in the meantime, you still don't answer what you're asked. Mr. Feijóo, be a little humble and tell us why the Star program of empty housing mobilization in 2018 only helped two, two aids across Galicia!, $7,000, Mr. Feijóo, the Star program! Be humble and explain why they do it, but they don't do anything, or explain it too, Mr. Feijóo, why we have a public housing park, as you said of 3,500 homes, that doesn't solve people, not even those people who need housing reallocation. And that's why Vigo's families were in danger of being defeated if they were offered housing in Pontecesures, a hundred and a hundred miles away.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u18	Finish, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u19	You paralyze public housing policy in this country, causing enormous suffering to people, and it wasn't random, it wasn't innocent. You've always stood aside from those who do business with the housing. And he did not take any measure that could mean that the banks would damage their balances or that the vulture funds would lose their business. You took steps in the State Government and in the Galician Union to promote the vacuum funds...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u20	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u21	...the Socimi, exempting them from paying taxes. You didn't build a public housing rental park at social price for those people who need it and to regulate the market. And he's not innocent, Mr. Feijó. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u22	Close this question by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u23	Speaking of tales, no; I come here talking of tales. It is not a story that you blocked 700 million euros yesterday for the autonomous community, from which a party could continue to increase the policies of rent and rehabilitation aid. Those aren't stories, Your Honor, those are accounts. What you're talking about here is stories, the story of the Empty Housing Program. But if in the empty housing programs it was mandatory to coordinate with the municipalities! An empty housing program in the Town Hall of Coruña, no; an empty housing program in the City Hall of the Seas of Podemos, in Ferrol, no; an empty housing program in the Town Hall of Santiago, at the last hour and at the last minute. What are you talking about? what empty housing program do you talk about when your goal was to boycott continuously and the empty housing program set in motion by the Autonomous Community? What stories are you talking about, Your Honor? You're talking about building houses. What an obsession! If the problem is that we have thousands of empty homes in the autonomous community and that what we have is to rehabilitate housing, help with rental bonds to those who cannot afford those rents and avoid the evictions, that you did nothing during the four years of term in the main cities of Galicia. What are you talking about, Your Honor? [[Applause]] What stories you're talking about. But, ladies and gentlemen, 86,000 families have benefited from housing programs in the autonomous community, 86,000 families! Today, if you were a little cautious and before you came here had read the Official Journal of Galicia, I would check that another call for 1,900 rental subsidies is published since now with retroactive effects since January 2019. We now have 2,200 rental bonds in force, to which we have added 1,900 rental bonds with retroactive effects since January. Is there a more social housing policy than this one? But don't you realize, Your Honor, that you just come here to play with your ears? Look, Your Honor, I understand that you've got what you wanted throughout the legislation, to be a spokesperson for your group. You have to congratulate him. But really the denomination of your group was very clarifying when the old spokesperson actually told us what you were. You are the Podemos group in the Galician Parliament. And yesterday your group — I want to reiterate why it hurts me especially as a German — have again voted against the 700 million euros that are from the disadvantaged families of Galicia, to which you are currently reducing your abilities. [[Applause]] But, look, ladies and gentlemen, I understand that the housing policies of the Podemos tides and ours are different. I know that when you ruled the Crown, you would buy apartments for your friends. We don't. [[Murmurs.]] When they ruled in Santiago they looked elsewhere at the problem of the occupations. We want people to come into their homes because they have a right. And we don't want occupations that are against people's rights. And you, who were Ferrol's "anti-displacement government," it turns out that they didn't prevent a single eviction in Ferrol and that they were all avoided by the Autonomous Community. Look, Your Honor, about housing policies, the first thing you have to do is give an explanation why you're collapsing the autonomic farm.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u24	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u25	But if the Socialist Party doesn't want them! But for the Socialist Party to play the ball if it rejects them!, if the Socialist Party only wants to benefit from its seats and its votes! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u26	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u27	You chose between the Socialist Party and Galicia. I'm staying with Galicia and you with the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u28	Thank you, President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Board of Ana Belén Pontón Modelo, G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, about the management that will be carried out by the Government of Greece in the last year of the X legislation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u29	You have the floor to Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u30	Thank you very much. Good morning. Mr. Feijóo, Galicia has very serious problems, and what we can't go on with this straw government and with a president whose only obsession is to see how he is able to hide his failure with tons of manipulation. But, look, reality is very stubborn. You promised us you were going to save the boxes, and what you did was to hand them over to a Venezuelan businessman; you promised us to shield the public services, and what we have is a health care on the edge of the collapse; you promised us that you would end the demographic crisis, and we're worse than ever; you promised us that you wouldn't spend what you didn't have, and what we have is Galicia's debt tripled by its mismanagement; you promised us -- remember? -- that Pemex was going to be a mana, and what is the result?: unfulfilled promises and their Mexican friends charged with corruption; also promised us, Mr Feijóo, to cut chiringuitos, but allows them to be done in private. [[Applause]] It is not presentable that the former mayor of the Coruña, Carlos Negroira, and the former director of the Igape mount their chiringuit to manage aid just before the Igape. And what do you do to cover up all this disincentive? Well, it's repeating formula, we just saw it today. It used to be Rajoy's collection and now he's married man, who has already told him that Galicia should be used in his wear-out strategy of Sánchez. He's not defending Galicia, he's picking up marriage. It's true that the government of Sanchez makes it very easy. [[Applause]] It makes it very easy, everything has to be said. Because the problem we have at the bottom is that it makes it very easy for the government of Sánchez because it works perfectly that harmonic bipartisanism PP-PSOE, which now seems like you want to add We can. Yes, yes, they immediately take the relief when it comes to discrimination against Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] And we can give you many examples of how that happens. I will set an example today, which is the example of Montoro-Montero. In 2016 and 2018 it was the Montoro minister who reduced the deliveries to the account to Galicia saying that Rajoy had no budgets; and you, silent and silent, Mr. Feijóo. In 2019 it is Minister Montero who does the same thing with the same arguments. [[Applause]] But since marriedo already gave him permission and said that there was to be shot at Sánchez, now you can actually open your mouth. He's lying when he tells us he owes more to the Greeks and to the Greeks than to the People's Party. Because if I did, I would go to the underlying problem, which is the financing model, and I would be defending an economic concert so that Galician money would be managed here and not in Madrid, a concert like, by the way, Euskadi and Navarra. [[Applause]] And they're doing fine. And you're therefore responsible for Galicia having to be begging 700 million euros...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u31	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u32	...who are ours and who correspond to us, because it was you who signed the current funding system. Finished with a proposal, Mr. Feijóo, a double proposal. First, there is a legal remedy to defend what Galicia has to do with it, and secondly, it abandons the follow-up to Madrid's centralism and defends an economic concert that allows us to have the key to money in Galicia. Look, Mr. Feijóo, you don't have much time left as president. He's not a reputee, he's a president of this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, when I saw your question, and I was talking about advertising, propaganda and manipulation, I thought I was wrong and I thought you were asking the question to the Government of Spain. Unfortunately there are already some elections in which the Greeks do not represent the BNG in order to be able to speak in the General Courts, and you probably want to make speeches here in Galicia, confusing the President of the Union with the President of the Central Government, and confusing this Parliament with the Congress of Deputies. But, look, BNG's talking about manipulation or advertising is, at least, surprising. You just made quite a few statements that perfectly fit into the concept of manipulation. Look, you just said we didn't save the boxes. It is true that the financial institutions have dissolved them by the Central Government, the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, but we saved 5,000 jobs and saved Vigo and La Coruña from having a seat of a financial institution with a tax domicile in Galicia. You just said we increased public debt, but every time we presented the budget, the BNG wants to continue to increase public debt. And you hide that we are the autonomous community with less public debt as regards the increase across Spain in the last decade. You're talking, you keep talking about, that we've increased chiringuits and I don't know that, and when you were ruling, you had 54 provincial delegates while this government has been holding 5. They were 54 high charges, with cars and secretaries. And it turns out that from 54 we're only going to 5 in the territorial area of the autonomous community and you're talking about we're expanding the chiringuits. Look, these are three excellent manipulation phrases. But the imposter isn't what you say, the important thing is what he does. You are constantly speaking about the need to abolish the provincial deputies, and every time they have the possibility — after the election — of being in the provincial deputies, vice presidents and running their funds. You speak, Your Honor, of manipulation. Look, Your Honor, who were complaining about the state budgets for Galicia because they were down 30%, now you tell me to go to the courts to ask the Government of Spain for 700 million euros. And then it turns out that this Government of Spain, the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, is its partner in all institutions. Every time the Spanish Socialist Workers Party needs them not to govern the PP, it uses BNG as a useful fool for governments in Galicia. Mrs. Pontón, yes, yes, Mrs. Pontón, listen to me, that I am in use of the word. [[Strong murmurers.]] Now it turns out you want to defend Mrs. Montero from Mr. Montoro. But don't you think that's up to the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party? Are you really going to continue to defend the Central Government, the Government of Spain, from the ranks of the BNG? [[Applause]] But, Mrs. Pontón, who's seen and who's watching the BNG!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u35	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u36	Look, when PSOE needs something in Galicia, he already has BNG. What is surprising is that the Socialists' Parliamentary Group now also has the BNG to defend Mrs Montero. Mrs. Pontón, I am deeply sorry what your position is. You missed a great opportunity. But, look, you're getting more and more portrayed. I'm a political option alien to Galician reality. Galician reality doesn't go that way, it doesn't go with false manipulations saying again in Parliament that we have to do a concert to lose, nothing more and nothing less than EUR 1 billion a year in autonomic financing. Can there be more manipulation and more nationalist propaganda against the real interests of the Greeks and the Greeks? The answer in my opinion is that it's difficult. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u37	Thank you, President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u38	Mr. Feijóo, I think there's nothing dumber than saying one thing and the opposite in the same intervention, which is what you just did today. [[Applause]] Of course, I have a lot more respect for you, especially the Greeks and the Greeks, not to come to this Parliament to miss us, as you have just done. But it's his style when he has no arguments. Of course, when he's not able to defend Galicia, he has to hide and insult BNG, because it's who's putting things straight for him, Mr. Feijó. [[Applause]] It's clear who's pointing it out. Because I don't know if there's anything more useless for this country than having MEPs and MPs who won't defend the interests of Galicia, who will vote on what the House is interested in. And what's most useless for this country is having a president who, instead of defending us always and in all forums, ultimately all he's doing is going back to Madrid's centralism. It's a sad paper for anyone. [[Applause]] And, look, don't manipulate. We don't find it bad to claim the 700 million euros if I'm telling you to claim them on the legal route! Because he made a legal report for what? To make a press release or to go to the end and use all the means to defend Galicia? What is it, that, as in Genoa, they said that judicial remedy, no, where did you say "I say" says "Deego" and you're already rebuking yourself and not going that way? Of course, that's what's happening. One day it says something, the next day they call it from Madrid and then we have to be acting according to their party interests. I don't think it's bad for you to defend these 700 million euros, but I don't think it's bad for you to defend them when I was a Montor who was holding our deliveries to account. What's wrong with me is that I never had the courage to defend that the state had paid us the 200 million euros in dependence on Rajoy's duty. What's wrong with me is that Rajoy's government had budgeted budgets that it didn't execute, and that you didn't demand the 2,000 million euros you left uninvested in this country. [[Applause]] And what I think is tremendous — and sad, too, I have to say — is having a president who doesn't trust this country, a president who prefers the resources of the Greeks to be managed from Madrid and not from Galicia. Because if we had an economic concert, we wouldn't be in this situation today. And it seems like a lie that you have such a complex mentality to say that Galicia would be bad if you managed our resources.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u40	Look, Navarra has three times as much gross domestic product as Galicia, and I don't see it going wrong on an economic concert. You're so wonderful! Only with which we managed the corporate tax would we have 1,600 million euros each year. What are you talking about, Mr. Feijóo? Abandon your position as a complex and blind president for centralism and start defending this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón, your time is up. Close the question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u42	Mrs. Pontón, I don't think it might seem bad for you to talk about the reality of the facts. I reiterate that, whenever the Socialist Party needs the votes of the BNG to rule in the institutions, after losing the elections, the BNG, unquestionably, gives the government to the Socialist Party. That's exactly the way it is. In the Coruña Parliament — two Members of the absolute majority of the PP — BNG, PSOE and the rest; in the Lugo Parliament — one Member of the absolute majority of the PP — BNG, PSOE and the rest. Your Honor, that's what's happening. And every time you criticize the Socialist Party, you're criticizing your partner. And the Greeks are perfectly aware that you are manipulating the country, they are telling us to bring their partner to trial. But why don't you break up with the partner? Why don't you break up with the partner who owes Galicia 700 million euros, Your Honor? [[Murmurs.]] Why can you have so much manipulation? [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And you teach me how to defend my country. Look, Mrs. Pontón, it's the dairy accounts. If Navarra has triple funding... Navarra has 650,000 inhabitants! I mean, 600,000 times 3 are 1,800,000 people. [[Murmurs.]] We have a million more than Navarre, Your Honor. But how can you account for the dairy and against any economist, any college, any sensible person who knows about the financing of autonomous communities in Spain! There is no greater manipulation than to come here saying that this Government does not defend Galicia when I had no more objective than defending Galicia from the very first moment I took possession as president of the Union. Look, Mrs. Pontón, I told you to do something important in Galicia, but they've been removed from Galicia's interests. You know why? Because, in your opinion, most of those who vote for this Galician People's Party — who are most of the Greeks — are not Greek. Because you think only the nationalists are Germans. [[Murmurs.]] And, look, if we already have a demographic problem, please don't go deep in the demographic problem. [[Murmurs.]] If it were only Welsh who voted for the BNG, then this country would be about to disappear, Your Honor. A little respect for the Greeks and a little respect for the country! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, I reiterate, if the spokesman of the Socialist Party is going to be fired now, let him defend Mrs Montero. Don't be a spokesman for the Socialist Party too, if you don't even remember what Mr. Montoro was proposing and confuse Mr. Montoro and Mrs. Montero just because these two were in Fairy. [[Murmurs.]] There's a big difference between the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u43	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u44	...and the Socialist Party every time we talk about Galicia. Look, Mrs. Pontón, the question you asked me was what I was going to do in the rest of the legislation. It has already been seen that there was no interest, absolutely no interest, and I come here to answer the occurrences of the BNG spokesman at every moment. [[Murmurs.]] Look, what if I am going to answer you — besides what I am going to do is rule — is that in Galicia there will be a responsible government, and in Galicia we will not turn ourselves over to nationalism, Mrs Pontón. That's what we left Pedro Sanchez with. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u45	Thank you. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Gonzalo Caballero Míguez, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the plan of action of the Government of Greece for what remains of legislation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u46	Question by Mr Gonzalo Caballero Míguez, spokesperson for the Socialist Parliamentary Group of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, this Parliament is a fundamental institution for the political life of our country, to give voice and solutions to the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks, to achieve ways of living more worthy of a Galician who does not want to fade. And it is, of course, a pleasure to incorporate myself into parliamentary life, hoping to be in touch with the circumstances, working with the entire parliamentary arch and with all the political forces to, of course, strengthen an alternative and project of change for a Galicia that wants to live better. Mr. President, Mr. Feijóo, you have been in front of the Galician Council for more than ten years, and you have managed more than 100 billion euros in front of the self-government. And of course things have been done. But, with respect, we have to tell him that the balance we take from his mandate in front of the Galician Union is a fundamentally negative balance. You suspended because it leaves us a Galicia that has been the worst, a little younger Galicia, with fewer people, who have come down from the 2,700,000 Greeks and Greeks, with less busy population, with less work; a Galicia where the rural environment is more abandoned and there is increasingly an empty Galicia; a Galicia where you have not been able to connect with the most urban scenario; a Galicia in which you have cut off and damaged social policies and in which you have dismantled the quality of Greek public health; a Galicia where younger people have more difficulty in reaching a job and a dignified life according to their formation and their prospects for the future. Your project, Mr. Feijóo, is an exhausted project. And the best example is this legislation: three of the four years of the legislation and there's no balance, it's the legislation of the inaction. You have turned this legislation into a mere speculation about your political career, about your personal interests in the People's Party. Yes, Mr. Feijóo, and that's why they're quiet in the People's Party benches. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] That's why there was a new social majority that was shown in the polls, with three electoral defeats throughout 2019 on the right in front of a new progressive social majority. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Strong murmurers.]] I beg you, ladies and gentlemen, please...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u48	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u49	In April, 55% of the Greeks and the Greeks showed their support for the forces of progress, and only 44% of the forces on the right, you and your allies on the right and on the right. That's the new social majority in the country. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] And I want to ask you today, Mr. Feijóo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u50	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u51	...what does he do about the electoral defeat he had on the right in Galicia throughout 2019?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u52	Silence, please, silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u53	What self-criticism do you, Mr. Feijóo, why did the Greeks and the Greeks for the first time in the history of autonomy remove them from the majority position in the country? What self-criticism does he do and how will he change his management in the year he's in front of the Galician Union?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u54	Silence, please, silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u55	Mr. Feijóo, you have to decide whether to continue in the policy of confrontation, in the politics of the theater sent to you from Madrid, from Casado, from Álvarez de Toledo... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u56	Silence! Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u57	...or if you're going to be President of a Galicia that already showed a majority support to the President of the Government in April, with which you only want to confront and not support solutions to Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u58	Thank you, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u59	Leave the confrontation and get to rule, Mr. Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u60	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Knight, welcome to the Galician Parliament. You say, in your introduction, that the Galician Parliament is a fundamental instrument for the political life of the country. And why did it take you so long to realize, Mr. Knight? If this is the fundamental instrument of Galicia's political life, why don't you want to participate in Galicia's fundamental instrument of political life, Mr. Caballero? [[Laughter]] Since you don't want to participate in Parliament, you think you're in a press conference, or maybe you think you're in the Socialist Party's office. [[Applause]] [[Laughter]] It's true that last Tuesday the president in government functions, instead of trying to realize an investment, was to make a rally at Chamartín station. And you now, as it is Tuesday too — sorry, Tuesday was yesterday, more or less — because you think you can make a rally here too, in the Galician Parliament. But come on, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] If you want to make a rally in the Galician Parliament, then, well, it is your turn. Look, you're asking me to read about the electoral defeat of the general elections -- the municipalities don't speak because they won the PP -- in Galicia. [[Laughter]] Well, I have, Your Honor, a question from the PSdeg in the Chamber Registry — I say for Mr. Knight to go see that the Chamber Registry is worth something... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u62	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u63	...which says: What action plan do you have for what remains of legislation? First of all, I wonder what to read about Mr. Sánchez's election results and I wonder what plan I have to complete the legislation. Well, I could sum up: in doing exactly the opposite of Mr. Sánchez. That is to say, firstly, to rule — understanding that rule and Mr Sánchez are incompatible —. [[Murmurs.]] The second is to comply with the legislation — and I understand that fulfilling a legislation and what the Socialist Party does in Spain is also incompatible. Third, to stay in central, I mean, I don't care about extremes. You agree with the extremes in Catalonia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u64	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u65	Yes, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u66	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u67	Do you think Bildu isn't an extreme? No, no, if Bildu is now a subsidiary of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, as far as we can see. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, let's keep working. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] And, finally, Your Honor, to guarantee political stability in Galicia, exactly the opposite of what Mr Sánchez does, that neither governs nor sets up a focused policy nor guarantees the country's political stability and does not comply with legislation. Finally, what are we going to do, Your Honor? Buying out our election program. So when you talk about "theatrick" you mean 700 million euros. Do you still consider that it is a theater that says the BNG, its partner, to go even to the courts to ask what the Greeks have already paid through taxes this year 2019? Is this a theater?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u68	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u69	Do you really come here as Secretary General of the Socialist Party in Galicia or as Government spokesman in Madrid? You should clear it up. In any case, look, sir, we will have time to debate — I suppose it will continue to come to Parliament — we will have time to debate, we will have time to debate in depth. [[Murmurs.]] But there's something I want to tell you. Look, what's left of legislation, in addition to governing and fulfilling the legislation, we're going to do something else, which is to design Galicia in the 2030s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u70	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u71	See, by the way, how we're going to use Galicia's political stability...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u72	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u73	...in spite of the instability of the Socialist Party and the instability that the Socialist Party injects into the autonomous public farm. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u74	Thank you, President. Mr. Caballero's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u75	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Feijóo, you've already put yourself in opposition, you've already put yourself in political opposition. [[Murmurs.]] This is not the control session for Gonzalo Caballero or the control session for the Socialist Party, it is the control session for a president who has to rule for the Greeks and for the Greeks. [[Applause]] And you opt for a confrontational strategy, to find scapegoats not to solve the problems in this country, which are many, and in a real Galicia which is very different from the official Galicia in which you live and in which you advertise. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Feijóo, why did everything go so well when Rajoy and Montoro were ruling, and now you say everything goes so bad when Pedro Sánchez rules?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u76	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u77	Why, Mr. Feijóo, do you not have the slightest chance to go out publicly to defend Esperanza Aguirre or Cristina Cifuentes and instead opt for rejection and total confrontation with the President of the Government, who has obtained the majority support of the Greeks and the Greeks? It's just not serious, Mr. Feijó. What do we have to believe, the Feijóo who says he defends the state of autonomy or the Feijóo who applauds the pacts of the People's Party with the ultra-right, a force that wants to eliminate autonomous competences? What do we have to believe, the beans that say there is no money and that there is no way to forecast the budgets of the Board or the beans that took out of the sleeve yesterday a promise of €900 million for the industrial sector without that capacity of budgets? [[Applause]] Not everything resists institutional advertising, not everything resists, Mr. Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u78	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u79	We ask him to change his policies, to rectify them, to talk about the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks. For example, in the case of public health in Galicia — even the municipal groups of the People's Party vote in full and criticise the dismantling and cuts in their health policies — correct health policy, change or make the policies of their advisor correct.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u80	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u81	Mr. Feijó, leave the confrontation and get ruling. As Ortega said, "all reality that is ignored prepares for revenge." We don't want any revenge, we want a president of the Union who, in the year that he stands in front of the government for the Greeks and the Greeks, who is not handled by the policy of confrontation of a right-wing right thrown to the right and who understands that there is a new social majority in the country that wants to change, that wants progress and that does not resign to the mandates...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u82	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u83	...from that right thrown to the right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u84	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u85	Thank you very much, and we will continue to discuss whenever there is a parliamentary session. I will comply with this obligation since the first day I took possession, because before the Greeks put me in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u86	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u87	It is true, Mr. Knight, that the Greeks put each one in his place. There's no doubt that it is. But I suppose the Members of this House have had a lot of fun with their first stage, and you have been really nice. [[Applause]] Mr. Knight, with all due respect, look, you're already speaking as President of the Union. It's funny, he never won elections in Galicia, he wasn't even a candidate, but he talks as president. [[Laughter]] Look, don't you realize you're not Mr. Sánchez? I know Mr. Sánchez doesn't have a more obedient general secretary than you do in all of Spain, I know that. And I know that you before the municipal elections were shielded as a candidate for the presidency of the Union. That's self-confidence. I mean, before the fellows were able to go to the primarys to preside over the mayors, or at least to try to preside over them and go on number one, you made some primarys for President of the Galician Union as a candidate for the Socialist Party. Of course, this does mean forecasting. [[Murmurs.]] Speaking of the issues that interest me, because it's the theme that the Greeks think we're going to talk about today, and I -- of course I'm going to talk about it -- look, when you talk about Mr. Montoro, man, shouldn't be so bad assumptions when you're ruling with them. [[Laughter]] Second reference. Look, Mr. Leicega — next door — in January 2018 — in January 2018 — said to me: As there are no assumptions, you are silent with your deliveries to the account. Do you know what I said? : "The Union will require the state to have 320 million outstandings even if there are no budgets". [[Faro de Vigo, January 23, 2018]] Look how we talked to Mr. Montoro. Do you know what Mr. Montoro said? -The Vanguard, February 14, "The Government plans to issue decrees if budgets are not approved". Right, Mrs. Pontón, you don't have time to read La Vanguardia? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I should. [[Murmurs.]] But to Mr. Knight who doesn't pass Ferraz what La Vanguardia says is surprising. But in addition to that due obedience, as if you were a socialist Franciscan, look at what Mr. Lambán, President of Aragon, says: "Let them pay us what they owe us, because if we don't, we're going to have a lot of trouble reaching the end of the year." Why don't you copy Mrs. Susana Díaz?: "We exercise responsible opposition and we will support sensible issues, such as deliveries." [[Applause]] Your Honor, why don't you speak as the spokesperson for the Socialist Government of Balearics: "The 177 million outstanding are an irrevocable and irrevocable amount." And what do you think of the councillor of Castile-A-Mancha?"María Jesús Montero has the formula to pay the advances in December. For to apply this formula on these dates." What do you think, Your Honor, what does Emilio Garcia-Page say?STLS not supported by server:
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u88	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u89	... "I don't know if it's a problem of accounts or accounts, but it's settled." And what do you think or say to Francina Armengol, president of Baleares: "The blockade cannot continue to affect the lives of communities and citizens, it is an undesirable situation." These are his comrades of the Socialist Party in Spain. What do you say?: which is (...) of Mr Feijóo. [[Intelligible.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u90	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u91	Look, here's a letter I'm going to send to the President of the Government in which I ask you, firstly, to reconsider that blockhead to health, social services, dependency and education of all autonomous communities; secondly, to bring you together a report by the lawyers of the Autonomous Community and, thirdly, a proposal for a royal decree to pass next week at the Congress of Deputies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u92	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u93	Mr. Knight, do you agree with a proposal for a royal decree so that Galicia can perceive the 700 million euros that the Greeks pay in taxes from January to September?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u94	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u95	Mr. Knight, you have two possibilities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u96	Thank you, President, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u97	...to remain as it has been so far, i.e., a puppet within the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u98	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u99	...or, on the contrary, start to realize that, indeed, in this Parliament we are talking about serious things...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u100	Your time is over, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u101	...not the Socialist Party's myths. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u102	Thank you, President. We continue with the fourth point of the agenda, of non-legislative proposals. We started with a non-legislative proposal from the Joint Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Paula Vázquez Verao and Mr Luís Villares Naveira. [[Pause.]] So let's go on, see if it's possible to keep a certain level here so you don't interrupt who's going to be in the use of the word. I was talking about what we're going to discuss, at the fourth point, a non-law proposition. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Together, at the initiative of Da Paula Vázquez Verao and D. Luis Villares Naveira, on the development by the Galician Union, before the first quarter of 2020, of a specific protocol of attention to the elderly who live alone
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u103	There is a self-amendment presented by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u104	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u105	Thank you, President. [[Continues murmuring in the room.]] This is always coffee time. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u106	Well, with this debate we believe that once again this House goes before the Government of Greece in the proposed debate on unwanted loneliness and its consequences among the largest people in our country, particularly the most vulnerable. And we say this because already in July 2017, in Commission 5th, the People's Party rejected an En Marea initiative on the need for what we are bringing back here today, on the need so simple but so complex and so necessary to develop specific protocols for the action and coordination of the administrations involved in paying attention to the reality of the elderly people who live in our country and who in many cases die alone after days, weeks or months without anyone noticing their circumstances. In that debate the arguments of the People's Party were that they were already working, that protocols were already being developed. But the only thing we've been making progress since that was the Accompanying Programme, which is a Red Cross volunteering program that certainly does not meet the needs of public policy momentum in this matter at all. Little progress. And it was in June 2019 that this House, at the initiative of the PSdeG, unanimously approved a report on unwanted loneliness in our country, with a census of older people living alone, and developed a strategy to address this phenomenon comprehensively. From 2017, in July, June 2019 we have to wait to approve the development of an integral strategy of attention. What we bring here today — not to fail to see these measures integrate into that global strategy of attention — are issues that the Union can activate — which it must have activated, in fact, years ago — to improve the situation of the elderly who live alone, the most vulnerable. We also lived a summer of alarming cases of people who died alone in their homes, in which time passed until their death was detected. That's why we believe it's necessary to expose a number of urgent points that, regardless of whether this Greek strategy is yet to be developed, would improve people's lives and prevent many deaths. We believe these are measures that the Union can push even if this strategy is not in progress, and they are integral measures because we are actually facing a complex phenomenon that must be addressed in its entirety. The dimensions of the phenomenon in our country pay special attention to administrations. We talked about that in 2018 they lived alone in Galicia 278,000 people. Of these, 128,800 were over 65 years old; that is, 4.7% of the population of Galicia are people over 65 years old who live alone. It doesn't mean they all have an unwanted loneliness condition, but we're in the face of an objectively vulnerable population. According to the projections of INE and IGE, in 2031 one out of three Greek homes will be made up of one person. It will be nearly 350,000 single-person homes, and objectively we will have more potentially vulnerable population in the face of this loneliness situation. And in addition, it must be borne in mind that 67% of the cases of people over 65 are women alone. So in our initiative, we formulate that robot portrait of the person who dies alone in our autonomous community. If he's under 65, he'd be a man. If she's older than that, she'd be basically a woman. They're generally unmarried people, mostly live in a city with real estate housing, and it's an eminently urban phenomenon. And it's particularly urban the phenomenon of these people who die alone without being missed by anyone for days or weeks, and even there have been cases of months. Although it's true that this summer we saw how cases increased also in villages and rural environments. We're also having the situation of that rural out of town, with villages where only one or a neighbor is left. And there's also vulnerability. But the truth is that most of these people over 65 are living alone in cities; especially in Pontevedra, Vigo, Ourense and the Coruña. In just a few years we're going to have accentuated this landscape, with a rural outlying and cities with a large percentage of older people living alone. Undesirable loneliness is certainly a structural element that goes beyond the competences that the Autonomous Community can have, is a structural element of our socio-economic system, which divides communities and interests individualism; not the individuality and development of the person, but the individualism and disintegration of communities. Among the most immediate causes of this unintended loneliness, we have to point out the lack of possibilities for reconciling people of working age, which often cannot come and be with their older people; the lack of community activities for older people; the lack of working opportunities in these rural areas, as we say, aged and with the resulting emigration of young people — and so ultimately emigration of older people. And it is also necessary to introduce in this analysis, of course, the material precariousness of many older people in our country because of low pensions. We continue — with this year's data — with 85% of the level at which the state pension is average. And, in this sense, women also suffer from greater vulnerability, with 4000 euros less than the average retirement pension per year. But we're going to distinguish two consequences of unwanted loneliness between the biggest people alone and among the most vulnerable. On the one hand there are those who can come to that extreme situation that loneliness itself is the cause of death. Why? Well, for example, there can be a fall that is not detected in time by anyone. A person may die from a concussion or trauma that would not have resulted in a death because of that loneliness situation and because the presence of that problem is not detected for days. The loneliness in these cases is true that both the one wanted and the one unwanted can kill. They've been the most dramatic and media cases in recent years. And already health professionals, from the branch, especially from gerontology, analyze that the loneliness of older people logically increases the risk of premature death. But we also have to talk about consequences that have a very negative impact on the lives of older people alone. Psycho-emotional problems appear or worsen, there's a dislodge of hygiene and in many cases malnutrition. Why? Because they are losing their ability to cook, due to loss of appetite, the lack of feeling of thirst in older people, even because of the difficulty of regularly turning to markets or the least ability to care for the garden or animals. I was saying a social worker on the island of Arousa that there are older people who live alone and eat nothing but milk bread. And we can also add the lack of proper follow-up to medical treatments, which can even be abandoned. So we must also take these consequences into account, let us say these "small"—in quotes—consequences that build up and worsen the quality of life and also increase the risk of premature death. Among the urgent measures that we propose to address all these issues — which we consider logically to be included in the Greek strategy of attention to this phenomenon and from there our own amendments, but we are not contradicting what has already been approved by this House but, on the contrary, we consider it to be reinforcing — we call for a specific protocol to be drawn up to coordinate the actions of all the public services and institutions involved. Sometimes this vulnerability is detected in health care, others in community social services. It is therefore necessary to have a common protocol and greater coordination. Logically for this, we have to involve the municipalities, but we have to equip them with means so that they can make the municipal socio-health protocols of attention to this problem. They obviously need technical support. But it is also obvious that Community social services need more means, both personnel and funds, to stop devoting so much resources to bureaucratic tasks and administrative procedures and to be able to perform social intervention and to meet this reality. This also means, of course, having social education and social work professionals with good working conditions throughout the Community, because there is a lot of inequality. In this sense, too, the request we make to the Board is to increase the funds of the agreed Plan, because the home care service, the home care service, is essential.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u107	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u108	More hours are needed not only to meet basic needs, but also to enable this service to do the work of promoting personal autonomy for what it was also designed for. Right now, on July 2019, 24,091 people attended by this service, but the surveys that were done on the self-perception of the dependency were talking about a demand of 53,000 people. Also in teleassisted, we're still under the state average. And finally, we also have to talk about that claim of hospitalization at home, because, after the announcement that was made before summer, we don't understand how with only 15 more teams if you're going to be able to cover the vastness of the territory. And we also add an essential question, which is to equip ourselves with workers and social workers in primary care to precisely coordinate with community social services. We believe this can be a coordination that improves attention to the vulnerability of older people. Finally, we believe that these measures can improve the situation as soon as possible. You don't have to wait for that Welsh strategy or the census of older people. We hope it holds with the confidence of the House.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u109	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u110	Good morning. For, indeed, the debate around the people who live alone is an increasing reality; some people who live alone by choice — as a model of life — and others who do not want that loneliness, but who does exist. What is evidence is that, in order for that reality of living in solitude to be satisfactory, it had to carry at least the following issues implicitly: that there would be physical independence from those people and economic power and autonomy to develop that life in solitude. And when these premises are not met is when loneliness becomes a problem. There are new life and family models, for which there must also be new formulas, new protection measures. And, of course, from BNG we believe that the administration cannot go so far as to go behind social reality. It's evidence that in a society like Galician, with such a clear level of aging, there are many steps behind it. The demographic structure of our country indicates that more and more people, especially older people, have little contact with relatives or friends. It's a reality, as has already been said, fundamentally urban, because there are fewer ties in cities; but it's also becoming a problem in rural areas because, despite the fact that more of these social and family ties work, these are less and less consistent. And the question we should ask ourselves, of course, is what happens when someone who lives in loneliness, without family and illness, becomes dependent or has a pathology. What happens to that person or what mechanisms does the Greek society have so that this situation does not turn into a drama? This capitalist economic model in which we are inserted is a society formed around the interests of that capital, and it sees in this new single formula a business opportunity. But for people with socio-economic and mobility difficulties, dependent people, people with poverty, measures, as I said, of protection need to be established. They're people who don't have economic resources to access those mechanisms that the market offers them, and it has to be from the public. Of course, since BNG we're defending public policy, we're defending a solidarity society and, therefore, we can't expect resources from the private model. Through the media, we have tremendous news of people dying alone, without anyone paying attention to them, but we also have to focus on people living alone without anyone caring for them and nobody caring for them or worrying about them. We must move from the alarm to take action. Of course, what is being taken at the moment is slow and insufficient, tremendously slow and insufficient. In Galicia there are many of those people who live alone in a very worrying economic situation, because we have the lowest pensions in the state, only behind Extreme, where the average pension is 150 euros lower than the average of the state, where the retirement pension is 183 euros lower than that of the state, where the widow's pension — most of them are women — is 111.12 euros lower than in the state or where non-contributory pensions do not reach the 400 euros.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u111	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u112	In this context, it is clear that in this context, in this economic situation of many of our older people, with these accounts, it is from the public where action is to be taken, because we have 8.64% of our population with more than 80 years of age or 25% with more than 65. That is why we support this initiative presented by the Joint Group today. We could have nuances, there could be many more measures to be taken. But in any case what needs to be taken is that it's a reality that goes up and about what to act on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Joint Left Group, Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u114	Thank you, President. We will also support this initiative. It has been discussed on more occasions that we are faced with a very important problem and, above all, that will not diminish but obviously, by the social changes that have been produced for years and by the extreme individualistic model of the capitalist system, because this reality is going to increase. Every day, they're the older people who live alone in our country and we'll have to attend to them. Because obviously this won't stop. We believe that the public policies that have been made in recent years are not being effective. We agree with the self-amendment made by the Joint Group because we understand that the measures proposed today are not contrary to the fact that they are inserted into this Galician strategy of attention to this phenomenon. We believe that they are complementary and can be an urgent response to a need that is currently at the table, and that they can be accompanied — when we have the report or when we know the situation more often — by many other measures. Because, obviously, this situation, this problem, is a complex problem that doesn't have a simple approach. I think we also agree on that, but obviously paralysis is not going to solve the situation in which more people are found every day. We believe that social services and the health system must also make a deep reflection on this change in society and adapt. We believe that at this moment it is not adapted to this aging that is taking place from society or the territorial dispersion that we have in our country. It can't be that the health system and social services don't respond to this reality. And we believe that, as a society, care needs to be in the center, because unfortunately they're not. And the model that is being implemented is, more and more, a privatization model, in which, if you have economic resources, you can have these care or that need for care; but, if you don't have resources, you have less public services every day. With the pretext of the economic crisis, all public services have been reduced. The State has dissociated itself from all the responsibilities of care, has caused them to fall back on the interior of the homes. And we believe that obviously that can't be the way, that of privatizing and cutting, because the reality in which we find ourselves, despite the speeches, is that the older people in our country have in no case cared for their most basic needs. At one point too, this initiative speaks of the need to coordinate — not only in this problem but in general, but also in this — the social services and the health system, which must be in constant dialogue. The way to detect and remedy this situation and address it in the best way is for there to be coordination. It cannot be possible that the health system often has a database from which social services do not have knowledge and that information often arrives because when it is too late. We believe, of course, that the need to coordinate and make specific protocols detailing how this coordination should be is an urgent need. And we think we're in a dramatic situation. Maybe the case of deaths in solitude because it's the most visible. But behind it may be years of suffering for people who have lived with this loneliness for a long time, with emotional problems, also physical problems and malnutrition. It can't be that a person falls in his home for an untreated fall in time. We believe these situations cannot be allowed. But we did not only in that situation, but also in the emotional sphere. Health is not just the absence of disease. I think it's very important that we can also, when we get to an age, have a dignified life and also have all our social, emotional and psychological needs satisfied. Because not only the absence of disease is, as I say, synonymous with health.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u115	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u116	I think we have the lowest pensions in the state in Galicia. The situation for many people is unsustainable. And we've found that this privatization model makes a residence, a day center, home care for hours, if you have to hire it, it's impossible for many families, along with the problem of reconciling people who work, who can't care either. And we'll also have to say that we can't be the women that we systematically have to dedicate, it has to be the state and it has to be society, the whole of society, but obviously the public administrations, the point of launch to satisfy these care. And it is also taken up in this initiative, and it seems to us essential, to meet the needs of rural people. We can't talk about services as if there were no differences between rural and cities. There's a few particulars to be taken care of. Today there are many challenges in rural areas. Many people do not have access to the minimum services.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u117	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u118	And it's over, but I think it's important that we think about it. Society has more and more people and, however, public policies are becoming more and more dissociated about this responsibility. We believe that the Galician Union, the truth, is suspended at the attention of the dependency, at the attention of the elderly. And that's why we're going to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u120	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies. Today we discovered a president of the Galician Union who was concerned about the social services of this autonomous community. So, this honourable Member, this parliamentary group, wants to bring here to deliver to the President of the House — let us have, Mr President, to put here a mailbox for all the documentation — a report from the State Association of Social Services Directors and Managers that is recently published; a report that values all social expenditure, both gross and by the child and differentiated, in education, in health, and specifically in social services. It's a report that Galicia puts under the state average for social spending, a report that says we're among the three autonomous communities that keep a larger cut in social spending in the last ten years, so, yes, advice that for me I don't have, that was the attitude of today's president of Galicia. Because you can start by reverting those minimum services that we've been reporting all these years in which the Social Policy Council finds itself, with aging — we have said on many occasions too — that runs like a hare, but with a German Government acting in this situation like a real turtle, at two speeds. I don't say the PSdEG, they're saying independent reports. Today we also heard Mr. Feijó set an example for Balearics. We would also like you to copy Mrs. Armengol, because the whale community is on this list of the Association of Powers as the one that has increased social spending in the last ten years. [[Applause]] Social expenditure is reflected, for example, in the abandonment of older residences, the seven promised residences. And at that very high aging rate, there's a rate of residential squares per inhabitant located in Galicia at 3.55%, a point below the state average and two, gentlemen, in respect of the WHO recommendation. I look for squares managed directly by the Galician Union in ten years of Mr. Feijóo's government! In addition, there is a total disconnection between the social and health sectors, there is no social and health care provider. For everyone it is known that our elders, our elders — specifically Mrs Vázquez Verao, who refers to this initiative — end up going to health centres with much more assiduousness than the rest of other elderly people. And these health specialists end up doing on many occasions by social workers, something about which we have also claimed at the PSdeG and which is requested on this initiative. We brought to the Commission in April that increase in that staff table, which is necessary because it arrests in Galicia there are 77 workers for the entire autonomous community; that is, 1 for every 40,000 Greeks and Greeks, a shameful figure. The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, if you've said it here and I think we'll all agree, is that it's not morally acceptable that there are people who are dead in their homes for two months without anyone finding out, without anyone missing them. It is neither morally nor ethically acceptable, but it is also completely politically reprehensible that there is a government that is not up to the circumstances to try to alleviate this problem. Mrs Vázquez Verao, you have already commented here that in July we unanimously approved in this House an initiative by the PSdeG, in which the Galician Board was requested to draw up a report in collaboration with Fegamp, a report to dimension this phenomenon of unwanted loneliness, which contained a census to answer the questions we have on the table — how many people are in this situation, where these people reside — and then to deal with them through this strategy of prevention and attention to unwanted loneliness. We have laid the foundations, and we understand that we must also continue to set stones, we must continue to build solutions to this problem, with which we shall vote in favour of their initiative. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u122	Thank you, Mr. President. From the report you are giving to the Socialist spokesman, I would like to point out that the People's Parliamentary Group also has it. But, look, what this report says is that autonomous spending on social policies in 2018 represents 63.8% of the budget percentage in Galicia, 3.1 points more than the state average. That page probably hasn't read it. I don't know if you have that page, Mr. President. [[Applause]] It also says this same report that Galicia is the third-largest community in health care, 36% of its budget, 3.5 points above the total of Spain. I'm also going to leave it to the president, because maybe those sheets didn't hand them over to the president of the House by the Socialist Spokesman. [[Applause]] Look, the biggest challenge facing Galicia in the medium and long term is the demographic problem. We have been saying this for many years — you seem to have discovered it three days ago — and that is why one of the most important challenges of the new political course for all Members of Parliament and all Members will be the processing of the Demographic impulse Act. By this law, Galicia will be the first community to address the demographic problem through a law, with more help and with more measures, a law that has planned an annual investment of more than 700 million euros — by the way, 700 million euros that coincide with what the state government owes to Galicia and that is what we want to spend annually on that law of demographic impulse. The demographic problem is one of the highest priorities of the Government of Galicia, specifically in April 2013 Parliament approved the first Plan for Population dynamisation in Galicia. What did you guys do? Abandoning the commission where it was being processed. In June 2013, the Strategy for the early prevention and detection of the dependency was approved, aimed at more efficiently managing attention to needs arising from population aging. In December 2014 the Strategy for Social Inclusion of Galicia was approved, which addresses the consequences of demographic change as a factor to take into account in the analysis of poverty and social exclusion. In 2016, the Galician Strategy for Active Ageing from Innovation establishes a framework for action for a healthy, independent and secure active life. In September 2016 the Galego Observatory for Demographic Dynamics was launched, in which we are all represented parliamentary groups, together with the municipalities, the Central Administration, trade union and business organizations, universities, social entities and experts on the subject. In July 2018 the Observatory presented a report — Galicia, demographic perspectives — which analyses the ageing of the population and the profile of older people in Galicia. In December 2018, the Observatory unanimously approved the strategic lines that served as the basis for the development of the Demographic Push Law. Social policy has provided for a census of older people living alone who are ready in this legislation in order to know the real situation of these people. The challenge of healthy active aging is the goal of home help service, because in Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, most people prefer to live in their homes. And so this year the home aid service has over 75 million euros to consolidate one of the services most valued by older people, with 24,000 users — 1 out of every 3 dependents attended —. The lunch program in the house was charged 40,000 meals a month for 1,300 people in 175 municipalities. The Volunteering Program launched in 2018 offers company and attention to people over 65 years of age. Teleassisción allows more than 5,700 older people to contain professional support 24 hours a day when they feel insecure, alone or in any accident.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u123	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u124	And there are the 60 houses of the largest, which the rural municipalities will count on in 2020. That is why we are going to vote for this initiative today. Because we want to vote in favour of most of the points. In particular, in point 1 we call for "before the first quarter of the year 2020" to be changed by "making a specific care protocol for older people throughout 2020". And with that amendment we would vote in favour of the first point, the second point, the third point, the fifth point, the sixth point and the seventh point. We would not vote in favour of the eighth point, because we do not understand that the Imelga, the Institute of Legal Medicine in Galicia, has specific functions for the case we are dealing with. And we haven't just seen that the whole primary care system, specifically the 400 health centers in Galicia, contains one social worker. Because, look, in recent years, 71% is increased, but there are health centers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u125	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u126	...—Finished, president—that they only have a doctor and a nurse professional. So we think it's impossible for all health centers to have a social worker as well. That is why we hope to reach an agreement, to accept this vote by points and to accept the amendment in voice. And we, of course, are in favour of voting this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u128	Well, about the biggest problem and the biggest challenge our country has, really, the demographic issue is a consequence. The biggest challenge is the impoverishment and lack of policies that allow us to develop so that we can live with quality and have quality jobs in our country. And that's why it's one of the axes of the vulnerability of older people, especially those over 85. It's an economic vulnerability, because they're the lowest pensions in the state, but it's a social vulnerability, because there's a lack of public resources. Yes, the budget has been reduced in social investment, because, moreover, that report is not counting in real terms, updated the IPC; therefore we would still need to recover — yes, the truth is that yes — nearly 700 million euros more annual budget to recover from the cuts produced during the crisis. But we said that there is social and economic vulnerability, there are low pensions, there is no access to private resources and public scarcity, while there is that return to the need that many women, above all, have to provide such care in an unremunerated way. Of course, the situation is explosive. That's really the challenge of the country. As for what this question is in the Demographic impulse Act, because you will tell me where, because we only find a series of declarations of intent on active aging. There is no unwanted solitude planning in the draft demographic impulse law, which, by the way, has lowered the requirements of the analyses that the Demographic Observatory itself put on the table. We will see it in the parliamentary process of that rule, but it certainly does not meet the expectations to shorten all this reality and all that brings about demographic ageing. And as for the census, he's working on the Social Policy Council, but we have to recognize who proposed it. Let's go back to the beginning, this House is ahead of the Government of Greece in the detection, awareness of this problem and the proposal for improvements. We will consider whether we allow voting by points, and we accept the amendment in voice. Why? Because we are continually accepting voting proposals, and I specifically brought here one in 2016, which was not met, with regard to wage equality. So it's almost tired of having to be approving issues that aren't going to happen. But, in order to continue with this consensus in the House to propose these measures, we can look at the amendment and see whether we can vote on points. And see if this year, as far as legislation is concerned, these agreements are going to be complied with. The question of the Immelga was made by a question of recognizing that it was the Institute of Legal Medicine that first detected this serious situation in this country, because of the most dramatic consequences, for addressing those deaths in solitude and because continuously the professionals of the Immelga are asking for improvements and are asking for more means. And we thought it was a way of recognizing that it was those who first detected this situation and warned society about the consequences.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u129	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and 14 other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Council of Galicia to request the Government of the State to adopt several measures in the wake of the energy transition to enable the maintenance of activity and employment linked to the thermal power plant of the Bridges
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u130	There are amendments from all groups.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u131	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mr. Tellado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u132	Thank you, President. Good day to all. It is a pity that the new spokesman of the Socialist Party, Mr. Caballero, cannot attend this debate, which is not present in the Chamber, because it would be important for the new leader of the Socialist Party to know what concerns the workers of the Bridges, the entire Eume district and generally the three districts, Ferrolterra, Eume and Ortegal. It's a pity I'm not present, because then, when I have an opportunity to speak to Pedro Sánchez, I could explain to him what the real problems are and not settle with everything they tell him from the Government of Spain. Today we're here to talk about one of the key parts of our community's industry, the largest coal thermoelectric group in all of Spain. We are here to talk, therefore, about the present and future of a company; but we are also here to talk about the present and the future of a whole region. The Eume district would not be understood without the economic impact of this large company, this endesa thermal power plant, on the Bridges. We're here to talk about the uncertainty they face, hundreds of thousands of families, thousands of families, who don't know what horizon they're waiting for because of irresponsible action by some politicians who should defend their interests and don't. The Greek economy faces numerous challenges in the current context, challenges that are exacerbated by the national situation — especially the international situation: the impact of a slowing Spanish economy, the brake on job creation data at the national level, which is beginning to light up alarms and to warn of a trend change in recent years — which concerns many people, at least the socialists, the threat of recession in some areas of the European Union... In this context, any government that wants to call government and that tries to do something for its citizens would be working on two lines: keeping the job — which is already active — and promoting the creation of new jobs, but the fact is that in Spain it doesn't happen. I insist that this is what any government that devotes at least part of its time to trying to improve its country, to try to improve the quality of life of the people who live in it. But, on the contrary, in Spain we have a government that has been working for 15 months to preserve only one job, that of Mr. Pedro Sánchez. We told you, we have a president who works in Falcon mode, who works in plane mode. Pedro Sánchez overlooks all the problems without solving absolutely any of them, as if they were not with him, hoping for another administration to try to find solutions. This desire to fly over all the problems, without ever touching them, must be what made the President of the Government of Spain never be in Galicia on an institutional journey. And that's what made the world turn around in that Falcon, but Galicia didn't come as president of the Government. On the other hand, Pedro Sánchez has visited Galicia to give a rally, yes, with Gonzalo Caballero. Some certainly amazing, as when he came to the Crown saying that the problems of Alcoa were already solved. Even the socialists were surprised to hear what the President of the Government had just said. And still today, six months later, we're still here waiting for that status of electrointensives that never arrived, nor when they were Government or now as Government in functions. Yes, palm trees had a lot in the ranks of the Socialist Party. As a columnist in the Greek press said this weekend — and I'll read textually — says: "The distinctive feature of Sanchism is the disarray, an admirable and so natural neglect that makes it his critics who wonder if they are not the ones who have become crazy. No, not so." Therefore, we believe that the Government of Sánchez has driven more doubt than certainty in the reality of our country. Not only has Pedro Sánchez distinguished himself from not having faced and solved any problem of silence from those who had our country, but he has the dubious merit of having introduced doubts and uncertainties in sectors that were working. Not only did he not solve any problems, but where he had not been able to create them in these fifteen months of the purpose government. And this way of acting has been particularly clear about what it has to do with the Welsh industry. After a profound crisis in the naval sector during socialist governments — what a chance! — the German naval sector was able to recover. A government of the People's Party—what a chance!— endowed the shipyards of the district of Ferrolterra with a project: the frigates F-110, worked for years, which allowed the shipyards stability and continuity for more than ten years, job guarantee. Yes, a socialist government arrived and, what did it do, stop the project for ten months to be able to announce it later in the context of an election campaign. The same is true of the automotive sector, another sector that suffered the consequences of Pedro Sánchez. The automotive sector supported by the Government of Galicia, by the Government of the Unity of Galicia, found in Pedro Sánchez a death statement when he wanted to end his diesel and announced his diesel. And so the sales of cars produced in our community were affected. But perhaps the best shows that something that worked came in Pedro Sánchez a threat was precisely the thermal power station of the Bridges. In just a few months they were able to close the thermal power plant in Meirama, in Cerceda; noraboa, lords of the Socialist Party. And in just a few months they put themselves as a goal to close in the short term a central that had guaranteed their useful life until the year 2045. Those are the merits of the socialists in the Eume region. In fact, since March 2018 the installation has been immersed in its adaptation to the European Union Industrial Emissions Directive, committing an investment of more than 217 million euros to reduce polluting emissions and ensure high environmental efficiency and meet the requirements of this Community standard. But socialist policies have led to almost total paralysis of industrial activity in the Bridges for four months, since last April. The data speak for themselves: in 2018 the power plant produced 8 teravats/hour, consuming 4.9 million tons of coal. The forecasts for this year 2019 are 2.6 teravats — where there was 8 before — with consumption of only 1.7 million tons of coal — where there was 5 —; noraboa, lords of the Socialist Party. Around a 65% drop in production -- an absolute disaster that has a leader called the Socialist Government, which is called Mr. Sánchez. With all the negative effects this entails for the fleet of 200 carriers who are closed in the county of Ferrol, in the municipality of Vilalba and in the county of Pontes. If the situation was of little concern — as we explained in the explanatory statement of our initiative — in October last year, through the adoption of a real decree, the Socialist Government — and once they had identified the companies that decided to continue making the investments necessary for the thermal power plants to continue to operate — what it did was remove the hydrocarbon tax to electricity production — known as green centime — to the gas generation, but not to the coal generation, not to the energy generation through coal. This decision has clearly broken with technological neutrality, damaging the installations that use coal, as is the case with the thermal power plant of the Bridges, thus damaging the thermal power plant of the Bridges and the entire region, to take this plant to its unviable situation. Or if you remove that green penny from the coal, or The Bridges will close — and you know — and close it because of you, because of the Government of Spain, because of the Socialist Government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u133	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u134	You're closing down an economic engine in a whole region. Proof of this is that the Council of Bridges has become the second highest per capita income council in Galicia, behind Oleiros, and thanks to what, the thermal power plant of the Bridges you want to close. The Town Hall of Bridges is the first municipality with the highest average pension in Galicia, thanks to what, to the retirements of the workers of the thermal power plant of the Bridges, which you want to close. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Sánchez is constantly attacking the Welsh industry: the electro-intensives, the naval, the automotive, the forest, as well as the thermal power plants. So today we propose a serious, rigorous, viable initiative, consensual with the workers of the bridge thermal power plant. Today you have the opportunity to stand in favour of workers, 750 jobs, between direct carriers and assistants.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u135	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u136	Today you have the opportunity to stand in favour of the future of a whole county and county. They have to decide whether they're on the side of Pedro Sánchez and that environmental Talibanism that aims to close a thermal power plant that's the economic motor of a whole region, or whether they're on the side of the workers; and here in Galicia there are no first and second workers. So we hope that this initiative, which is part of what the workers of the bridge thermal power plant claim...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u137	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u138	...be supported by all groups.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u139	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u140	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u141	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u142	Good morning. The People's Parliamentary Group today clearly comes to this Parliament to lie to the citizenship of the Bridges and the entire region. As they've done with Cerceda, so they repeat the game. You don't think about the citizenship of the Bridges or the workers, you just think about extracting political and electoral revenue and favoring the interests of the companies that give them a very well paid accompaniment. He was clear in the speech of the spokesperson of the People's Party: he spoke of Pedro Sánchez, Pedro Sánchez, Pedro Sánchez, but of alternatives to the Bridges, ten seconds. You know perfectly well that the current inactivity of the bridge power station and its short future has nothing to do with actions or inactions of the Spanish Government—well, you see that Mr. Tellado is not interested in the arguments, he comes here to release his rally, and then they talk about myths!—Ah! [[Murmurs.]] Okay, okay, it'll be documented. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] All right, all right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u143	It was a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u144	Okay. Perfect. The decision not to operate the power plant is of the company itself, because the costs of CO2 do not make it profitable, and the general strategy of the European Union — including with its votes, I believe that the person responsible for the issue was a member of the People's Party — to mitigate climate change and for energy transition. Or do they now start to pollute their extreme right partners and start denying climate change? I hope not! Do you really think that the power plant that emits 30% of Galicia's greenhouse gases, and one of the 20 most pollutants in Europe, has a long future? Do you really think? Do you think you're still deceiving the people of the Bridges and their county? They know that it has no future, and they come here to lie to the neighbours and neighbors of the Bridges for a handful of votes, instead of working and budgeting in which it could really guarantee the future of the entire Ferrolterra hypercommarca, The Bridges, Eume and Ortegal, in line with what is being done in most European regions -- there is no need to invent, you can copy, there are models that are already fully implemented -- affected by this energy transition, which are proving, with the creation of more employment and more quality, that working for the future is to work for the ecological transition and energy. There's time to do it if it starts now, and, above all, there are important European budgets and probably also state budgets. Let us look at the case of France: EUR 750,000 million for the energy transition. And what does it correspond to regional governments across Europe? That they want to be at the vanguard of the energy transition and, therefore, be recipients of massive and fully feasible investments in the short term. That's what we put to them in points 7 and 8 of our replacement amendment. Put in place immediately a working group to develop the map of Galicia's sustainable transition, the Galician ClIU: climate, land, energy and water, with the participation of the Greek universities, which are already participating in many ClIUs in various European regions and in many countries in South America. Immediately set up a working group, in parallel with the Galician ClIU, to develop two pilot projects of the map mentioned in the macro-commarcas of Ferrolterra, The Bridges, Eume, Ortega and Cerceda, Orders, Melide Land and Arzua, based on models already existing in several European regions. In nine months, before finishing this legislation, you could have a zero version of these maps and start vehicularing European and state funds to put them in place. They are in favour of citizenship as long as they remain, in this case, of the citizenship of the Bridges, instead of maintaining their chairs in this Parliament or the interests of the electricians. Don't do what they did to Meirama, who for years knew that Naturgy was going to shut down the power station...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u145	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u146	...and they've been lying to the citizenship instead of working on sustainable alternatives. They mobilize budgets for the 2020 accounts and bring together companies that derive enormous benefits from exploiting the resources of these districts. That's where our paragraphs 5 and 6 of the amendment go. The first three points of his proposal are aberrant. It is absurd, according to European legislation, to try to pay Endesa for greenhouse gas emissions. And the room is technically ridiculous. In order for a 1,400 megawatt plant to feed forest biomass it would take 2.8 million hectares of forest. That is, the whole territory of Galicia planted with eucalyptus nitens to burn at the bridge center. What a solution! If we vote in favour of point 5 — if we are allowed to vote for points — it makes clear that the future of employment in the Bridges and its region...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u147	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u148	...will come from the energy transition, and, in the meantime, develop shock measures that palliate the transitional effects of this process. That's what the future of jobs in this region stands for.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u149	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u150	This proposal reveals an absolute irresponsibility to global climate emergency and, above all, it is misleading citizenship.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u151	Thank you, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u152	The future of the Bridges is not burning Indonesian coal, it's in the energy transition.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u153	Thank you, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u154	Don't think about keeping your chairs and thinking more about the citizenship of the Bridges...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u155	Your time is up. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you, your time is up. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u156	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you. "When the people ask for their brave and barly voice, they send him to please the forces of the Civil Guard." So he prayed one of the stanzas of the Cantiga das Encrobas, by Manuel Maria's letter, in the 1970s. It echoed the confrontation of black-headed cloths and toquills to the cold tricorns; the umbrellas upright with hearts full of rage and impotence against the barbarians and thugs of the Frankish forces that imposed the greed of the capital on the peasants who would not let themselves steal. And in that gift of the umbrellas that the women who defended with nails and teeth the bread of theirs was the blood of the cunettes, the prison and the fear. This was the struggle I remember and some of the present shared. That was the beginning, today the struggle of the end is free. Forty-and-a-half years look at us, and this has a plot to finish as it began. At the Bridges there is a large hole full of water, a huge lake that masks the great wound that tells us about the polishing of coal. That coal that is not recognized in any plan of any Spanish government in order to send palliative aid to the unemployment disaster. If ours wasn't coal, what was it? There are also millions and millions of tons of waste and waste covering a valley now infertile. The territory of the Bridges is marked for eternal eternity. The environmental damage, the policy suffered by the territory, the millions and millions of profits are not comparable to the misery of wages paid to workers in these forty years of abuse. We therefore lack compensation for so many gains and so much to shed. The development of real and sustainable economic initiatives in the time they return and maintain the dynamism of the region and the employment of others. It's not fair that, once again, if you want us to stay here with the refugees alone. Mr. Tellado, you come here to talk about the future of a company. BNG comes to debate the future of a region and its people. There are qualitative differences in positioning, because as long as companies continue to have profits, tax exemptions, facilities, term extensions... because in that point 3 we ask to delete from the agreement that they propose us to speak of this: tax exemptions for a corporation that divides dividends, that doesn't get the profits of the company and that it intends to spoil the workers, summers and still are, of their acquired rights over time. [[Applause]] Workers and workers from Endesa and auxiliary and transport companies don't think they're holding arms cross by waiting for what God commands; they're on the verge of war, and this fall will be hot, very hot. By the way, PP gentlemen, do you remember that they have committed themselves to promoting three meetings of workers and workers, one with Endesa in Madrid on employment, another with the Ministry of Ecological Transition on green centime and the other with the European Commissioner for Energy and Action for Climate for CO2 and its regulation? Do you know anything about those promised managements or are you still managing management? We share the concern that you say you have, even though your amnesia is exaggerated, because you have responsibilities -- and so many! -- in the crisis we are living in and in which it seems to be, it may come or will come. We therefore agree on the removal of the green penny because it ends up going to the consumer, although it is good to remember that it was created by you in 2012. Of course! Besides, it's also worth reminding the PSOE lords that removed the gas, but this is also a finite fuel, with consequences in the environment. We propose amendments to add, we propose the adoption of a mechanism for compensation of payments by capacity, for the availability to cover demand in peak hours. Because the horizon has to be a new system, not that thermals always live on rents. We also agree that the mixed model is a way to promote...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u157	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u158	...and a form of use. We propose point 4 for that, but watch out! this can't be used to favor energy crops, which I declare as soon as the BNG talks about biomass refers to those remains that result from the cutting and pruning rather than the promotion of the cultivation of infrared to burn. We also doubt that there's enough cut and pot to do something on the Bridges. As I told you, the district of the Bridges is in struggle, fighting at the beginning of Endesa and fighting at the end of its activity. It's the people who claim the rights that correspond to them as the real protagonists of the wealth generation that others have taken. It's time to put the batteries...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u159	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u160	...and that the representatives of the people give voice and channel the fears and fair claims of the people. In this sense, points 5 and 7. Because there are no protagonists or saviors here, it's the people, the workers and the neighbors of the county who must mark the agenda of priorities. It is your future that is at stake, we have an obligation to compromise the company that is involved in this process, because the final decisions will be hers. Company that was public...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u161	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u162	...and that ended up in the hands of those who today are for the work and grace of politics.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u163	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u164	Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Joint Left Group, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u165	Good morning. Mr. Tellado said there are no first and second workers. It's true for us. What you see is that there are companies of first and second for the People's Party, as you see in your proposals. Today he came here again to do theater and to lie; to lie and to slip the bulk of his responsibility as the German Government, who have it. Since the People's Party -- from that council of ministers whose 90% of members have been charged -- it has made shameful privatization of Endesa, stealing public money from exports to a profitable company, Endesa's decisions are the decisions of a private company within a legal context at the world, European, state and national level, and therefore the capital, and much more if it is an international capital like Enel's, has neither a homeland nor a heart. So he testifies to the fact that, despite reaching an agreement with the carriers to keep the activity, it takes almost five months to stop because they don't give him the bills, point. A private decision. Six years ago I tabled a non-law proposal in this Parliament to textually draw up a plan for the eventual closure of thermal power stations. I was left alone, I got harsh criticism, and I was saying in the intervention that, unfortunately, the decision to close or not a thermal power plant depended on a decision of a private company. But what I had to do was make a responsible government, and that's next to the people, the workers and the transporters at that time, in a world context in which, whether they want or not, coal has a very limited horizon, we can discuss this year up, year down, very limited, the responsibility of a government is to have put forward a plan of economic diversification so that people don't stay at the stake, something that you haven't done. Something you didn't do at Cerceda or at the Bridges. Because coming here is a party leader who supports the Government of Greece to ignore the reality that the thermal power plant at the Bridges is one of the most polluting industries in Europe, which emits 1/3 of Galicia's greenhouse gases, when there are global agreements that derive from CO2-based emission payments agreements that are going to get worse in 2020 and that are not decisions of a government, neither of the Union nor of anyone, that will get worse, and have not prepared an alternative plan for economic diversification to not leave people untied, is irresponsible. And we, between handing over the millions as you always did Endesa, or using the millions for the workers, chose to use the millions for the workers. What you propose here in this non-law proposal is seven cups of broth from the one who applied the Spanish State for many years, which is to give electricity a chance for them to drill and, in return, a receipt of the light of the most expensive in Europe; payments by capacity in a system that has overcapacity, tax exemptions etc. That's money for Endesa, which doesn't even guarantee the future of bridge work. How many million must we give Endesa full-time to keep it working for a few years, Mr. Tellado? How much? How much? [[Murmurs.]] How many millions more do you want to give Endesa? What you have to do is assume your responsibility as the German Government, not leave people at the stake, and start working in real measures already that, on the one hand, realize a model transition, necessary and desirable for this country, that gives working alternatives to those people and that eliminates forms of production that will be, by conviction or necessity, abandoned. They're closing down the thermal power stations in Europe, closing down the thermal power stations in the state, and we have to be ready in this country too, that's the question. And nothing else, the rest is demagogy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u166	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u167	Cheap demagogy is lying to people. So when you talk about a fair transition, you tell me what you did for that transition. What is the plan of the German Government for the energy transition? They've been ruling here and in the state for seven years. Tell me what the measures are that make up the Energy Transition Plan. That's how we are, worse than six years ago, when we already said that we had to prepare for this context. You guys didn't listen and we're much worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u168	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u169	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Tellado, it is a far greater shame than here today, in this debate so important to Galicia, there is neither the president of the Galician Union, nor the industrial councillor, nor even the spokesperson of the People's Party. [[Applause]] And look, I'm going to tell you something we've told you on many occasions in this Chamber: Better, much better, in the presidential Falcon than in the yacht of a drug dealer. Don't forget it! [[Applause]] Mr. Tellado, we've been here for three years in this tenth legislation; a legislation in which Mr. Núñez Feijóo engages as a militant in Galicia but does not defend Galician interests as President of the Greek Government. Three years of an ad-and-advertising legislation. The thermal power stations of Meirama and the Bridges were not on the political agenda of the Unity of Galicia until Mr. Pedro Sánchez entered the presidency of the Government. In this tenth legislation, the Galician People's Party, in 19 months of Mariano Rajoy's government, led 15% of its PNP by urging the Central Government. Do you know how many were directed by the Miner Funds or by the maintenance of the Meirama thermal power plant? You know it perfectly well. Zero, zero, not a single one! While in fifteen months of government by President Sánchez, the Galician People's Party directed 64% of the PNP presented in this German Parliament to the Central Government. Now, look, the Socialists have been holding out on March 7, 2017, just this tenth legislation, and we have brought to this plenary a PNL so that the Galician Union had defended the loss of 72 million euros of the 2006-2012 Coal Plan unilaterally annulled by the Government of Mr. Mariano Rajoy. Do you know what has been the result of this initiative put forward by the Socialists? You know it perfectly well. She was refused thanks to the 41 votes against the People's Party. In these 41 votes against the People's Party were included the vote of the militant Greek president of Galicia. Where was President Feijóo militant from Galicia when the Government of Mariano Rajoy cancelled a 72 million euro pen for Galicia? Where was President Feijóo militant from Galicia when he didn't even defend the inclusion of performances in 16 municipalities of the community where he ruled? Where was he? On 31 January 2015, the Natural-Fenosa Gas Council committed itself to making an investment of nearly 100 million euros to adapt Meirama's thermal power plant to European environmental requirements and to continue operating beyond 2020; an investment agreement taken, as always, with a great propaganda act chaired by President Feijóo, in the City of Culture, together with Mr. Salvador Gabarrón. Four years later, the company Naturgy announced the closure of the Meirama thermal power plant, affecting about 180 jobs. What did the President of the Galician Union do for Naturgy to fulfill that commitment achieved in 2015? Where was Galician militant once again to defend Galician interests? In addition, Mr Tellado, the company relations that the Galician Union has with Naturgy, formerly the Union Fenosa, since in Sogama they share share shares, in Reganosa they were partners, in Gas Galicia and EnergyLab are also partners.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u170	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u171	And, by the way, the Director General of Government Industry in Greece is part of these boards of directors. The same goes for the Bridges. In March 2018, Endesa presented the strategic plan with a roadmap that included the investments needed at the bridge thermal power plant to reduce its contaminant effects and adapt to European legislation, with an investment of 217 million euros. At the time, the People's Party presented three exactly the same initiatives, three autobus initiatives, in which they asked themselves what valuation makes the Government of Greece on the investment of 218 million euros...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u172	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u173	...announced by Endesa at the bridge center. I'm done, Mr. President. I mean, while things seem to be going well, the Greek Government is concerned, in its pursuit of advertising and propaganda, about asking itself and saying what the rating is, about arrogant achievements and taking many photos. What happens? That when things get worse, the Galician militant, instead of looking for solutions, what he's dedicated to is, one day himself and another, blaming the government of the state of Pedro Sánchez...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u175	The only thing I'm going to say, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u176	No, thanks, no. Sorry, time... there's still a lot left to cut here! No, please, stop it now. We've been through a lot of time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u177	I just want to say that, despite that, we voted in favour of this initiative when Mr. Mariano Rajoy was and now Mr. Pedro Sánchez is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u178	Your time is up. Thank you. Thanks a lot, time's up. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u179	Thank you, President. Today, two of the three opposition groups stand out as spokespersons against Feijóo. The PSOE has had seven in the last ten years, the BNG has had five and the break-up five since the year 2012, and two splits. Of course, with this picture, trying to convince someone that you're worried about some Galician subject and don't spend all your time looking at it, which is the situation of your own party, it's hard to believe. You, who aren't able to give yourself stability, not even yourself, what stability will give Galicia? [[Applause]] Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo said that when things get worse... No, no, things don't get worse by themselves, things have gotten worse by the Socialist Government, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Get some paper! How difficult it was to do what you had to do! Noraboa! Look, today you had to choose between defending Gonzalo Caballero, defending the delegate of the Government, defending Valentín Formoso, which is to say amen everything the government of Pedro Sánchez says, even if it is harmful to Galicia, or defending the interests of Galicia of the district of Ferrolterra, Eume and Ortegal, and you chose the party, that's the reality! You could choose and choose badly. Look, remind the socialist mayor of Cerceda, of course, of the disabled mayor. You, who so many lessons of so many things give, remind him of our bench, and see if your group's voice makes any decision about it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u180	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u181	Look, I understand that the Sánchez Government spends all day at the Congress of Deputies, because it's a government that doesn't govern, it's a government in functions that doesn't work, so they can be in Congress of Deputies all day. But the German Government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u182	Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u183	...if he's not in the camera it's because he's ruling, he's working. They're not home, they're not home. They're ruling and solving problems. Many, by the way, created by yourselves. [[Interruptions.]] I understand that a socialist can't conjugate the verb to manage, I understand it, but don't take the hair of the people, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. By the way, it was Pedro Sánchez's government who charged the plan Ferrol, a plan designed for the industrial diversification of the districts of Ferrolterra, Eume and Ortegal. It was his government, the government of Pedro Sánchez. Socialist cynicism. They are so ecologicalists, so ecologicalists, so ecologicalists, they want to close as soon as possible all the thermal power stations in Spain. That, yes, allows for the entry of electricity into the Spanish electricity network from thermal power stations in Morocco which do not comply with any environmental directive. Look what you're ecologists! Mr. Casal, look, I don't know where you live or I don't care, I live in Ferrol and I agree with many people working in the naval sector, in the port of Ferrol and in the thermal power station of the Bridges, and I want to continue to be able to cross the street with those people, and look into their eyes, and tell them that we have done everything we can to keep the source of their work open. You don't talk to me about ecological transition, because someone from Ferrol reminds us of the ship conversions that were pushing these and you were the useful fools...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u184	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u185	...and complicit in that disaster for the industry. Yes, Labour Commissions too, Mr. Lake, Labour Commissions too. What did they do? Destroy jobs. Don't get the hair of people!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u186	Finish, please. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u187	Maybe you'll solve your retirement here. Don't give us lessons on what to do, what to do is preserve jobs.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u188	Mr. Tellado, about the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u189	And Mr. Sánchez has the great merit of being the first in this chamber to ask for the closure of the bridge thermal power plant.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u190	Silence! Your time is up, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u191	So you have to be on the side of the Socialist Party. How you won't agree! That's the reality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u192	Amendments. Will you accept any of the amendments?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u193	Our initiative is the result of what the workers of the bridge thermal power plant demand and we are not going to move a comma, a letter, from our original text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u194	Thank you. Your time is up. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Maria de la Concepción Burgo López and two other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Galician Union to improve the supply of master's studies in our university system, as well as on the aid to promote access to these studies on equal terms
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u195	An amendment was tabled by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u196	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. As you all know, the European Higher Education Area organizes higher education at three levels: degree, master and doctorate. Of all of them, it's the master's studies that have grown most in recent years, in the last decade, both in number of teachers and in number of students; an extensible growth throughout Spain, practically quadrupled since 2008. This is because postgraduate studies, as you know, are already marking a differential element in training and, above all, in the job competitiveness of students and students; they are working as that essential differential element that offers greater possibilities for work; better employment, better wages. These greater possibilities for work are present, for example, in the last study conducted by the Agency for the Quality of Galician University System, where in an analysis of the work placement of university students it is concluded that 93.3% of those who took a master's degree in Galicia found a job, within a few months of completing it, with a higher salary than those who had a degree. And the same conclusions come to the Quality Agency of the Catalan university system. It is also verified by several studies that companies in all areas, especially legal areas, banking areas, health areas, are increasingly asking for a master's degree as a requirement for employment. This being the case, in Galicia and throughout Spain, it is important to have a policy of impulse, growth, of these studies, just as it is absolutely essential to have a policy that democratizes access to master studies. I mean, breaking all the economic or social barriers, which in Galicia are excessive, to access these master's studies. In addition to all this, as you can fully understand, the growth of master's studies is essential for the social and economic development of our country, so these policies are essential. And it has to be borne in mind that the adjustment of studies to new professional profiles is much faster and produces a much easier adjustment through the masters than the degrees, for many elements that we don't now have time to analyze. In any case, I have to have a policy of impulse which I feel that the Galician Union is not leading, because its policy is really limited and is also implementing measures for the implementation and suppression of masters in many contradictory and quite chaotic cases, which force universities to continue to change, moved only for quantitative and economical reasons, which do not allow them to consolidate master titles and do not allow them to increase the quality and excellence they have, but which can be increased, because they limit the growth of supply, regardless of whether universities have the means to do so and what is also the zero cost. Despite that, you can't afford it. You all have to know that in Galicia, if a university wants to give a new master's degree, it has to cancel another, it has to close another. So we're on a roof that prevents the growth of the number of teachers and prevents the growth of the number of students. In Galicia there are possibilities to increase the number of masters and increase the quality, because we have research groups of excellence, joint research units etc. Thus, it is no wonder that at the inauguration of this course the rector of Santiago had said on behalf of all directors of the Greek universities, and I quote textually: "Friend to the idea of closed maps and roofs of the system, we defend that, by combining social demand, employability and available resources, we have to adapt the offer to the reality of each moment with maximum agility, particularly in the cases of masters, always guaranteeing the quality of the service, which must be the other cornerstone." And that's because the master's offer in Galicia is too low, and the number of enrolleds is also too low, compared to the rest of Spain. The data we have available, officers, endorse these statements. First of all, the number of registrations is very short with regard to Spain, and I say so by the next. Galicia is under the Spanish average. In Spain, the percentage of master's students compared to grade students is 14.1%, and in Galicia it is 12%. In addition, the number of enrolments in master's titles has stagnated in recent years; while in Spain it grows 10% as an average annual term, here it has stagnated, so that in the 2013-2014 course 3,113 students were held and in 2017-2018 it was 3,116; an absolute stagnation. Perfect. This development is clearly worrying. On the other hand, help is needed for those who want to study these studies, help that in Galicia are extremely small, and I put the data back on the table. In the 2017-2018 course 122 scholarships were requested for a master's degree, and Junta granted 76, with an budget of 100,000 euros; 100,000 euros of grants for master's students. Last year, the previous year, even less than EUR 85,000 was the aid granted; therefore, the requirements must also be changed. But it's also a low-grade offer. According to the study conducted by the CRUE, the Spanish university in figures, in the course 2016-2017 Galicia is the community where less Master's studies grew, 54%, while in Spain they increased by on average by 97%; a considerable difference leading to that reduction and stagnation of the number of students. Galicia also clearly limps in the internalization of these studies, finds itself fourth in the tail, and behind it is only Aragon, Extremadura or La Rioja. On the other hand, in doctoral studies Galicia is found in the middle of the table, that is, it responds very well. For all this, it is necessary to change the policies that follow the Union with these studies, so that the supply is extended and that the necessary means are given to universities and, above all, the regulatory possibility necessary to increase the number, quality and competitiveness of master's studies, because this benefits students and students, and because this also benefits our country from the social and economic point of view. For all this, we present this proposal not of law. By the way, I want to tell you what we calculated and you can do about a count that's really not excessive, about 5 million euros, and we ask you to logically agree with universities. This cannot be just a Union policy, it has to be a policy agreed upon with universities, with a special plan of boosting these master's studies that integrates concrete measures in this plan; it includes the necessary regulatory changes and the budget needed to increase the number and excellence parameters of master's studies that increase competitiveness, especially at the international level. To put in place, too, a study of complementary aids to these studies given at the three universities in Galicia, so that they are sufficient and cover not only the tuition, as is happening now, but they cover the basic costs of this student, so that really, access is democratic and so that these new work and social opportunities offered by master's studies may actually have access to all those who have sufficient academic levels but cannot achieve it by their economic level. Having planted things like this, I think it's extremely reasonable and at a reasonable price too, so I ask for this House's support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u198	Thank you very much, Mrs Burgo. The Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u199	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Mrs Burgo said, and they also collect it in the explanatory statement of the initiative, which has quadrupled the number of teachers offered in our country and that it has also been in this field of higher education where it has grown, although below the average of the Spanish State, the number of students studying these types of qualifications. We do not share the critical reading made by the Socialist Party on the generalization and expansion of the masters, nor on the implications that the incorporation of our university education had by introducing itself into the European Higher Education Area, because it does not respond to this increase to the anxiety of the student from the Greek university by enrolling in the masters, but it does respond and is a direct consequence of a model of university education that was imposed in this country by the so-called Bologna Plan, which initially began with 4 plus 1.4 years of degrees and 1 of master's degree, and now, since 2015, begins to implement that other model of the 3 plus 2, 3 degrees and 2 master's. After all, you're running the same five years as in the old graduations, but at a much higher price and much more expensive for our parents' students. We have spoken here in this House, on other occasions, of what is the registration price they have in our country, in general terms, the master's titles, and it varies between the 1,300 and the 1,900 euros, depending, of course, on the area or academic branch in which they are centered, and to us - in this sense here the amendment we have tabled from our group - seems important to us, and we have defended it already on other occasions, that every time the registration price of the masters, the masters who are qualified, what happens with the teacher's teacher, with the subject of psychology, that of all the masters who are offered in public education in our country are seen to be reduced to do so as equivalent to the price of grade plates. Obviously, through the funding plan of the Greek university system, that this is offset by the budget with which the public universities in our country count each year. Mrs. Burgo referred in her speech to the opening of the academic course and to the speech that the rector of the University of Santiago spoke on behalf of the whole of the public universities in our country, and made a special effort to fine-tune the public university in our country in the need to open the negotiation process of this new plan for funding the university system, in order to be able to meet the great challenges and demands that the Government itself makes to the public university in our country. We understand that it is within the framework of these negotiations of the new funding plan that needs to be compensated, if you finally decide - as we propose - that reduction in the fees of the masters, of all the masters, enabling or not, to match them at the prices of the grade. Because it is very expensive for the student, and by extension for the entire working family in our country, to assume what is already an obligation to be able to introduce you into the labour market, as it is said, with the level of training required, and that goes through that model -- I insist -- 4 plus 1, or 3 plus 2. We agree, in addition to the amendment we propose and we hope that it will be taken into account, with the proposals made today by the Socialist Party. It's just a reflection on what it has to do with these aids complementary to Master's studies, so that they go beyond assuming the cost of enrollment and look at what is the bulk of the costs required by our country's university education - we talk about it many times - that it is renting an increasingly difficult, ever-increasing floor, especially in the cities of the Atlantic axis; or that it's assuming the highest cost of transport in our country, whether you go from the Navy, for example, to Santiago de Compostela or if you study in Lugo and live in Vigo. And here we make a re-invocation to the unanimous agreement that prompted the BNG proposal last July, so that we insist as soon as the Spanish Government has previously transferred competences in the field of scholarships to study, in order to be able to design and adjust all these scholarships, all these aids, to the reality of Greece, and that we also take into account, therefore, the reality that many students in our country live, who have to assume -- this is -- a much higher cost than in other territories of the Spanish State, for example, by simply setting as an example that reality of transport. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u200	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. The Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor to Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u201	Thank you. Speaking of masters and that increase in enrolment in recent years, we also believe that it is necessary to show, once again, as Mrs. Rodil has already pointed out, that tendency to return -- if she ever went out -- to an elite university. If, during the 20th century, with nuances, there was a massive access of popular classes to university -- I say with nuances because it is still a class issue, the less income there is, the less access to university there is, but, indeed, there was massive access to university -- the question of teachers, what it does is to put a barrier, an economic limiter, to that access to higher studies than -- just like the two voguers who have just spoken -- are more and more necessary to have that more successful future work; with nuances too, because the working reality of youth is what it is. So we agree to design a system of own scholarships for the masters. In fact, we carried it in our electoral program; a policy of scholarships that supports the student with less resources, especially at the postgraduate level, to retain talent but also to ensure that the university system allows universal access to higher education, as is also the object of this initiative. Therefore, in fact - as has also been explained here - proper funding from the Greek university system can be provided with a system of scholarships that is actually effective, which is not the current precariousness. We also, of course, agree to agree with the universities a plan of impetus to studies that involves an increase in supply precisely through the dialogue with universities, and this is of particular importance today because we have just met, published in the Transparency Portal, this project of private university, without dialogue with any university principals, without having it exposed to the act of opening the university course by Feijóo, which is absolutely intolerable; a private university that will vamp these audiences, which will allow the Bank, in this case, to create more titles. He said precisely The Voice of Galicia that he will create four masters also at this university. On the one hand, the government of Feijóo is going to allow it to create titles when on the other hand it ravines them to public universities, because, as Mrs Burgo pointed out, that clause of stability prevents universities from increasing the number of students. It's quite an intolerable point, and we wanted to take advantage of that second part of his non-law proposition, which talks about dialogue and increased titrations in the Greek public university system, to denounce this situation. We will vote in favour of your GNP.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u202	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez. On the part of the Left Joint Group, Mrs Chao Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u203	Thank you, President. The Left Joint Parliamentary Group will therefore support this initiative. And we support it because it deals with a fundamental issue - which we have defended on many occasions in this House - for equal opportunities in this country, such as access to university studies. As we have said on numerous occasions, we can only speak of equal opportunities when university studies are truly universal, and this will only happen when they are truly free and accessible to all citizens. The reality known by all, unfortunately, is far from it. The public prices continue to be in Galicia today's real entry barriers to the children and daughters of the workers of this country; an unfair situation that condemns the individual future of students who remain outside and the collective future of the Galician society, which should not be allowed to lose free of talent. The only reason why it should stop a master's degree in this country would have to be the student's own development, never economic reasons. Even more since the business of the 3rd plus 2 was done, which condemns the student to face enormous expenses to have a degree that has the same recognition as the extinct graduates, that known as the matter of the Bologna Plan. In fact, this is a nuance in which we disagree with the socialist initiative. The master is no longer a distinguishing element, as it could happen ten years ago in the Greek university system, but a sine qua not to be able to have opportunities. It's been said that this very week, the student of college in Galicia was beginning his classes, and it's enough to be in one of the presentations that students have and the first students of any academic career to check how from the first day the student sits in the classrooms he receives the clear message that if he wants to have any work alternatives, he'll have to study a master's degree, so he'll have to think from the first day that that's the way out. As was said here, what used to be a bachelor's degree, but the double price, the triple price, the gold price. We have commented on it on many occasions, it was a round business. Today, being an almost fundamental requirement to access almost any job and to have a sufficiently recognized title, we believe that it is especially necessary for the Education Administration to act decisively, both on offer — as the Socialist Party's initiative proposes — and, above all, in economic measures in order to ensure access to studies. The 1,500-2,000 euros on average that can cost a master's degree is a very high price that many students and many Greek students can't afford. That is why we find point 2 of the socialist initiative particularly relevant, on which we put forward a number of measures. It's urgent for the German Government to develop its own stock exchange policy. We need to reconsider the access requirements for these bags and adapt the amounts that are provided to the real needs of the student of Galicia, who go far beyond the registration, which is the only one that currently covers the few bags that have the Galician board. It's housing, it's housing, it's transport, it's fundamental issues, it's especially important in a country like ours, where population dispersal makes the cost of transport so high. This is a concern for many families in this country, a fundamental concern for many students in this country, who have been working for months to bear the cost. It's a shame that the match that the Government of Greece's intended for university scholarships is only 200,000 euros. As it is a shame that in the last year it was only 76 beneficiaries to have a scholarship for a master's degree. And it is no use — we must insist — to say that there are no powers in this matter. The PP, the People's Party in Madrid, took over the Ministry's scholarships. If the German People's Party wanted to, Galicia could make up for this situation. We agreed, too, on the need to encourage new titrations that diversify the offer and make a public system of German point and competitive, so that we do not lose students through private universities that continue to do business on account of the rights of all citizens. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u204	Thank you very much, Mrs Chao. Mr Fernández Prado has the floor by the Galician People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u205	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Mrs. Burgo, when I read the non-law proposition, I felt like I wanted to put something on a shoemaker this week that started the university course, and move PSOE's interest. But I honestly think it's a little opportunistic and it's a little late. By the way, it also turns out to me -- I don't know if it's so -- that at a time when they just presented themselves in a precipice -- because that's what they're in, in a precaution -- 370 measures, this issue, that of the scholarships, which is state competition -- I mean, we'll talk about state competition -- we'll talk about it with two points, 107 and 108, two generalities to include in a new law and a new educational pact, just the same ones that got up from the table when the education pact was about to be signed -- it wasn't just that it had been done with the government of the PP. And this presents them, in addition, shortly after your Minister of Science and University says you have to eliminate titles. Let's see if they agree! Your minister says that you have to cut down and you have to expand to random, unspecifically in all areas and places, without coordination. The Council has been planning this for over a decade with the three universities, and it's doing it through the titration map. A titration map signed in 2017 with horizon 2021, which is being implemented consistently, designed by the universities themselves, with university experts and according to Galicia's needs, the world and today. In addition, this year — only this year — seven masters within that plan are taking orders from universities, and only the teachers who have no demand, those who have no students, because they have to take things in order and according to the needs of the university and the Greek society at this time. In addition, there is a plan of excellence that contemplates a specific line to define the professional profiles of the future and the titles necessary for them, which is being done with Feugue, with the specialists, so that when this first plan is finished we have another study; do not open everything you want, as I say -- at random. Secondly, he speaks of the difficulties in gaining access to the master's degree, indeed. But it says, if there's an indicator that marks the ease or difficulty to access master's programs, it's the ones that join the master's degree in the year of graduation. The Ministry of Education has just published the latest data, the 2015-2016 graduates who entered the master's office in 2016-2017 — the latest published data. Galicia is Spain's third community in admission to graduates' masters, after the Basque Country and Asturias, the third! Besides, when the state average is 22.8, Galicia is 27.3, 4.5 points above the average. This is the indicator that the Ministry uses, therefore, it is not true that in Galicia we are below or have greater difficulty than other autonomous communities to access these programs. He's talking about scholarships, state competition. The Socialist Government of Pedro Sánchez has been calling two scholarships for two years, and not a euro has increased, not one! This is a decree of those socials. two greens. Look, if it's so reasonable, if they're so reasonable for the Board, imagine for the Ministry, which is competent! because the bags of the Board are complementary. By the way, today comes out a new one — not the first time — for long-term unemployed, for access to the masters. Those are the complements of the Union. By the way, a help that was given before by the Ministry and which is now no good, that's why you have to give them to Join. So, if it's as reasonable as you say, tell your minister to put the money in a social green and everything arranged. Because they're state competences, as well as the BNG spokesman, who didn't ask for it. In any case, the misfortune for the Greek purses is that they receive the scholarships and can ask for them in accounts, in number and according to what the BOE publishes, not from the Socialist Party's myths, as we heard this morning here. This misfortune! Mr. Tellado said that the socialists were overboard in Falcon the problems and that they were managed by the autonomous communities, which were arranged by Galicia. This is a clear GNP of what I was saying.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u206	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u207	We overshoot the issue of scholarships, which is the responsibility of the socialists of Madrid, and that the Galician arrangement and that put the money that doesn't transfer us from 800 million. We're closing the circle!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u208	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u209	Easy for socialist gentlemen! Obviously opportunistic, at this moment of precipitate where Mr Sánchez is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u211	Mrs Concepción Burgo has the floor on the author group of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u212	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank the support of all opposition groups, and to comment on the spokesmen who spoke about this elitistization of the university and the difficulties, which this initiative is also about this, to try to correct a serious problem that some of you have named, and is that the masters are essentially growing in the hands of private universities, is the big business of private universities. And why? Because many of the public universities, including the Welsh, run by the political government, can't grow these master's studies, that level of master's offer, and the privates are making that offer. And here I was clearly talking about some of you in this stability plan -- which is what I was referring to -- that has a clear roof to prevent that even if you can, even if it's the zero cost, they're implanting more master. Mr. Fernández Prado, I don't know what campaign I'm taking, because I'm asking Junta things. The campaign is taking you, who here, in the Galician Parliament, keep asking the Government of Madrid for things. Of course! I'm asking you to do it for whoever has to, for the Government of Galicia to do it. Then it's all balloons out. You just recognized yourself that the stock exchange system that put in place the People's Party is not enough, and you know that we still have the budgets of the People's Party and we can't make that grow. That's what we did, we reduced the requirements, those changes that you put in motion, like you couldn't have a scholarship if you didn't have a 5. But if you can come in, those who have money, enter with 5 in, those who have a bag needed more. That's all over. And you mix the titration map! Look, Mr. Fernández Prado, on the titration map of what you're talking about are the degrees, but the masters are reviewed annually. Masters work on the other hand, logically, because degrees have a stability of at least four years and more, to see their possibility to continue. Not the masters, so the masters are so important — but you contradict yourself — to reach these new professional profiles. Because it's through the master's degree where we can quickly organize studies that have the greatest implementation — or that seems to have the greatest implementation — in the labour market. So you say that not because they continue in this policy of constraining the work of universities, and above all to prevent — imaginable that for economic reasons...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u213	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u214	...I want to think, but in view of what's coming in the next few months, I don't know if it's just economic motives or other reasons -- to constrain the public university system. Because you certainly bet...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u215	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u216	...by another type of system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u217	I'm sorry. About the amendment, Mrs Burgo. I don't know if he said it, I didn't realize it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u218	Mr. President, I'm sorry. Yes, yes, we accept it, of course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u219	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u220	...because it complements what we say.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u221	Thank you. Let's move on to the next initiative. Proposal not of law G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the demands to be made by the Galician Union to the Central Government to recover pending investments in infrastructure
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u222	Two amendments have been tabled, by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u223	Mr Bará Torres has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u224	Thank you, President. Good morning. This is an initiative to denounce the outrage and ill-treatment of Galicia by the Central Government, and therefore by the turning parties in the Central Government; which is the mistreatment of the Greeks and the Greeks, in the end. Abused by the way of budgets, by unexecuted investments, also by the way of the financing system. And this — as it is obvious — has a very negative impact on people's daily lives, because it is a dramatic decline in economic activity and therefore also in job creation. It's also an initiative in the defence of Galicia in the face of central government abuse. This defense was supposed to be done by the German Government, the Galician Union, but as it does not, we do it, we make it the Galician Nationalist Block, which we are for. It should be done by the German Government, to stand up to him and defend Galicia's interests, but you don't. It's an initiative that also has to do with the absence of our country of state debate, because, with all this noise, nobody talks about our country and Galicia is gone. It seems that Gallica only interests Madrid's politicians when they come here looking for the electoral boot. It's also a proposal that has to do with the need for our own voice, without ties, which defends Galician interests in Madrid. And more now, with this possibilistic stance of the Board of Galicia and Mr. Feijóo, who occasionally feels a state-of-the-art attack that truly are attacks of submission. They've been quiet for ten years, quieting and bestowing, putting the other cheek. It takes them, for example, in the case of a financing system that you yourself recognize is discriminatory and unfair. These years too, and the last few years, without claiming the debt of dependence, an issue that has to do with life, with day to day, with suffering, with thousands of people who do not receive such help, who are dying without receiving such help. Also accepting the continuous cuts in investment in infrastructure, or now with this debate of the 700 million advances on account, as far as lighthouses are concerned. Today the president of the board announced a letter to us. After months, for weeks of debate, a letter was sent today, when we had already proposed that you file an appeal in the courts to this outrage, which is also an outrage. This is a positive proposal in defence of the country, in addition to a serious, worrisome context, of blocking and institutional paralysis, where we are witnessing an absolutely regrettable spectacle, which causes concern and, above all, it produces disgust, which produces carracing, which causes shame among the population, because it is seven months of paralysis, without government, and with a parliament, the Central Parliament, which is also in standby. This concern, this outrage, this disgust, is also due to the inability of the state parties to reach agreements, and we clearly point, in this case, to the Socialist Party and the United Nations. That's why people are tired, tired, bored of this marasmo and vodevil; a situation that creates distrust and discredit of institutions and also of the parties that are responsible for this situation of electoralist tactics, posture, opportunism, politics converted into politics and turned into a board for advantageists and Tahurers. And in a context, in addition, conflictive and complex, where there are risks, threats and alarms on the horizon because of the political situation and the international and state economic situation. In this beginning of political course, in September, in front of this absence of Galicia, in front of an equally absent Government of the Union, which does not defend the country, we want to bring these issues to the political debate, to the public debate, to the Galician Parliament and to society as a whole; to regain this Greek agenda before the Central Government to end this paralysis, with this abandonment and with this marginalization, with none of which has anything to do with this absence of Galicia, with positions of the Government of Galicia's own, in the debate on the financing system. The BNG clearly said what his position was, we are waiting for the position of the People's Party. You don't know. Let's hope they tell us in the next few weeks, that we will bring this debate here too. Not to mention what comes out today about the case of Navarre. We would already like to be Navarre in the matter of investments, particularly in matters of financing system! Mr. Feió made a very chiripitiflautic comparison about the projection between GDP and population. It turns out we have three times more GDP, but we have four times more population -- that is, we should have 80,000 million GDP, according to population projection, and we have 60,000. Anyway, those are the accounts. We also want to talk about energy. Logically, we want to talk about transfers, of AP-9, of traffic, of rail, of ports, of rescue, finally, of all those pending transfers, parked by the rotating governments. Also from the illegal extension of Ence, also of historical memory, also of rights and freedoms, especially now, when this Parliament imposes its own law bites and wants to silence people. Today we want to make a fincapé on a question that seems particularly bloody to us, which is about state investments, to denounce that investor blackout that has been taking place in recent years, not only now with the Government of the Socialist Party, but also with the governments of the People's Party, at a time when we have extended budgets, therefore, without investments, and where there is uncertainty about next year's budgets. In addition, we want to bring to the debate compensation for investments that have not been carried out in recent years, with the complicit silence of the People's Party's Union. And I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and the Government of the Union, that in 2017 the President of the Union announced a commission to follow up State investments. Where is that commission? You haven't talked about her again. She was taken out of the joke at that time because there was a social cry about 400 million euros cut in state investments, but never again. If not, give us the data yourself because we have to look for them somewhere else. The reality is that the data published in August - that is why we are now bringing this initiative to debate - are talking about an extremely low level of execution, which adds to the previous years, of 56%, 458, of 806 million provided by the Ministry of Development, which is, as we know, the department with the most investment capacity in Galicia. In addition, a study has also been conducted curiously by Generalitat de Cataluña — and goes a greeting to Catalonia on this day of the National Day of Catalonia —; he has conducted a study of the execution of State budgets from the years 2015 to 2018, which reveals very negative data, in which Galicia comes out very badly, well below the state average, and we no longer say of the data that Madrid has, which has an investment level of 114%. It's data from the State General Intervention that they're talking about they've stopped investing 1,500 million euros in these four years. The situation - as I have said - is aggravated by the extension and absence of budgets, with a paroon investor in public work of which both the Administration of the State and the Board of Galicia are responsible, which is not running, liciting, practically no public work of a certain dimension, is only doing projects of minor works and maintenance, and that - as I said - has serious consequences in terms of economic activity and loss of employment. That is why we are bringing these proposals here that discuss specific issues and we want them to take a stand on these issues. We call for the approval of an extraordinary budget allocation of at least 1,500 million euros to meet all these needs and to compensate for investments not implemented in recent years, to make better investments on the road network, rail etc. We also want a multi-annual plan to improve the railway network in Greece, with a series of actions that are already known, historically challenged and approved in this Parliament in recent years, and in what we also include - you certainly exclude this from your amendments - the creation of the rail proximity service and the transfer to Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u225	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u226	...of competences in the matter, as well as investments in highways and port matters. So we want to put Galicia on the map of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u227	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u228	...debate at this moment and also that all political groups are positioned...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u229	Thank you very much, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u230	...about all the state parties, in favor of these demands that go in favour...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u231	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u232	...of our country and our people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u233	Mr Álvarez Martínez has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. It presents the Galego Nationalist Block today a non-law proposal concerning infrastructure, both road and rail, and ports, and guides that non-law proposal almost exclusively to the budgets of the State and its corresponding investments in Galicia. He finds that we basically agree with all the content of the non-law proposal. If you'll allow me, Mr Bará, I'll tell you that in your argument, there is a certain excess of creativity, possibly, when it refers to the lack of government in the state problems as transcendent as Brexit, trade wars, tensions in the Middle East, the warning of a possible economic recession, alarms about a climate crisis, etc. Without denying the existence of all this that you say here, I think you are very close to entering the argumental line of the People's Party when you say that Mr. Zapatero is guilty of all the evils that humanity has. But well, you are the owner of your initiative, of course. We are in favour of the state investing in Galicia all that is pending in infrastructure of all kinds. From the highways, as they don't; from the highway known as the Lugo Navy, the Ourense-Lugo connection to the A-54, the A-76, etc. In the infrastructures and services of railways and ports as well, as they do not. The difference is that we will not change our speech, we will not start to demand or cease demanding what we previously demanded, the difference of the People's Party, which was deeply silent throughout all the years of Mr. Rajoy's Government with regard to the infrastructures and state investments in Galicia. But I think it's also fair... - Mr President, I don't know how much time I have left because I don't have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u235	I just didn't give it to him.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u236	Ah! in that case I start from scratch, I have more time. How much are you gonna leave me? [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr. President, Calvo Pouso, speaks words that are not perceived.]] All right. It's always good to have a point of reference or two, which allows you to triangle reality even. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He said before it should be taken into account what history is, how we come to the situation of those 1,500 million people you rightly refer to in your non-law proposition. But it should also be borne in mind that, for example, in 2015, the State Government executed 63.74% of what it had originally planned; at that time, investments in Galicia, about the total state, represented 10.52%. It's important that we retain this data, if someone loses, I can repeat it in the end. In 2016 it executed 41.43%, and the budgets represented 10,19% of the entire state. In 2017 he executed 74%, and the budgets represented 7% of the entire state. And the Galician People's Party applauded in such a way... I don't know if you're bored is an appropriate term, in any case, applauded with insistent applause those budgets that had three points less than the previous year. And in 2018 that government that you now demand 1,500 million euros has executed 116% of what you originally planned, 116%, is 116%. But, in any case, put this at its point, we agree, and so in our amendment we ask for what we ask, which is that the central government is asked to consider the investments [...] in budgets in the autonomous community. But there is also a fundamental part of the infrastructures of the autonomous community that depend strictly and exclusively on the Galician Union, so the second part of our amendment. Because I also want it to end at AG-13, Via Ártabra; that the AG-56 unfolds to Noia; that it builds the AG-51, of the PLISAN; that of the Lower Mine, that of Santiago-A Estrada, the highway of the Coast of Death, that of Curro-Brion. And you do what happens, what gives you the numbers. I have here a relationship of 34 works that appeared in the MOVE Plan, 34 works that are not executed, which add up to only 1,443 million euros. I mean, practically the same thing that's demanded of the state. So we also understand that this non-law proposition must be complemented by demanding all the infrastructures that are pending in Galicia in our autonomous community, not only the state. I insist, we agree because we're not going to change our speech. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u237	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez. Mr Fernández Prado has the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u238	Good day again. Good day again. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Jose Lois Bará, don't tell Martin that I'm nervous about all the groups on the left. I don't care about Martino's, but the lords of the Joint Group and the Common Left don't get nervous, they won't come this way. [[Applause]] Out of these jokes, I hope you'll give me the time, Mr. President. This morning, Mr. Bará, I was reminded of the president who are his partners, his socialist partners, of whom you are the mule in every place, the ones who are doing... called him a rabid, I don't know what he called, this paralysis. They just have to break up with them, demand their partners. Wherever it takes, as the president told you, there you are always with your vows to help them. Of course, we all remember, we had quite a debate on these issues, and Mr. Álvarez, all these things are requested and supported when the People's Party ruled. We haven't changed at all for anything in the opposition, to rule who governs. It's really a bit shocking that this desperate interest that Mr Bará showed for trying to prove that the BNG defends Galician interests, when, of course, the citizens left him out of Congress and left him out of power to defend, and they try to bring here debates that can't be done in Congress. But look, if there is someone who has clearly defended the interests of Galicia and its infrastructure in these years, that is the majority group of the People's Party and the Government of the People's Party that we support. Clearly. [[Applause]] So some of these works are already collected and requested. After listening to him, I'd like to clarify a few things. He's talking about the paralysis these five months. Who's riding this circus in Madrid? Your partners, PSOE and Podemos, who are partners where they need them. And they haven't paralysed this for five months, they've been paralyzed 17 years ago, with the motion of censure, because they really have paralysed this. We and the Government will continue to defend. That's why this amendment, which we support concrete works, far beyond 1,500 million. We ask for many more millions, many more, in concrete works: in investments for the train, for roads, for the ports; concrete! Tell your partners to at least run the approved budgets. On budget matters, first, when you were ruling here and supporting the Government in Madrid, you were pampering up to 8% of investments in Galicia. None of the last years fell by 10% in Galicia, not one!, and then there's a third less. What you can't talk about is absolute data. And when he speaks of execution, he doesn't cheat on numbers, like the socialist voicer, because one thing is execution, and even committed things end the following year. Let's not play trills with the data and the figures. When it matters, we take those from Development, and when it's interested, we take the global investments, like the two voices have just done, and they're different data. In any case, we agree, that's why the amendment was amended. We ask for all these pending works, we really ask for execution. That's why we ask Madrid to at least run the 2018 budget, which is approved, at least! That's why we put one more point, too, and you already have works, you have approved, you have budget, you just have to bid it out. You can make it a government in functions, yes, it is already approved. But of course, we need to keep covering our friends and talking about big things and big things. But look, of course, we'll continue to defend these investments. There's the amendment, big investments are collected, what you have to ask your partners to do so. And in that sense, whenever we make these claims with consistency and meaning, the People's Group will be behind us. That's why all these things were approved, because the majority group approved those demands would rule who would rule in Madrid. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u239	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u240	Good morning, gentlemen. A debate well brought to Parliament today, on a day when, as a progressive citizen, I participate in this disappointment, that shame, even this shame that an important part of progressive citizenship in Galicia and in the state as a whole is faced with the inability of the Socialist Party and We can agree to bring about a progressive government, which demonstrates a lack of public interest, of common interest, of interest to the social majority, of which we are so often talking about. Because it could take the State Courts several months to process initiatives that broaden rights and diminish cuts, which ultimately meant to extend well-being, and yet we are not seeing any of this. And that's a shared responsibility, of which citizenship is not to blame, but which is having these effects. I therefore take advantage of the rostrum to demand a prompt solution to that situation. A debate in the State in which as Greeks and Greeks we have witnessed impatience, surprises and surprises, why there was a total absence of the Greek agenda in that country's own lack of configuration of the progressive Government; with an accomplice silence, in addition, of the Galician franchise of Podemos and the Socialist Party of Galicia, which at nothing raised the voice to claim that, within the competences of the State, they could benefit not only the development of the infrastructures, but also the social and territorial cohesion of our country and were acting positively for that to be included in the debate itself. But we must not forget that during these few months we have talked about debate of ideas, and rather about debate of silences. There was no debate on what should be the scope of the derogation from labour reform, whether euthanasia should be decriminalized or in which extension, or how to guarantee progressively or suddenly the implementation of the free and universality of education from 0 to 3 years. No, there wasn't a debate of public ideas, where citizenship could position itself and say, they're right about each other and they didn't get a government. No, it was a much more excruciating debate. I also want to recall that autonomous leaders, both from the Socialist Party and from Podemos, spoke at the moment asking that the political agenda of their communities be included, as was the case of Chimo Puig in Valencia or the case of Teresa Rodríguez in Andalusia, in those negotiations, but here was the most shocking silence. Today we have just seen the premiere of Gonzalo Caballero, and we have not seen that his commitment to the country has achieved a single support in relation to the formation of a government in the state. I also want to recall that 370 measures were exposed during the last few weeks, supposedly to seduce the whole progressive space, from which any Greek agenda was completely absent. I would like to recall the complete absence of the works of the railway Atlantic corridor, thus the absence of the vertebration of a sustainable mobility, both in that system and in the surrounding train. Nor is there any reference to the remission of the debt of the port of Coruña; nor is there any reference to the necessary improvements of the port of Vigo, to the connection of the external ports. In environmental matters, the sanitation of the Burgo River etc. This did not prevent any of the state leaders who were protagonists of that negotiation from saying that those measures sounded very good to him, all right, despite the fact that there was no Greek political agenda, something which was supposed to provide basic justice, as a result of what we have suffered not only historically, but in the last five years. I would also like to recall, over the past year, how the State budgets for 2019 assumed -- and that they were seen as progressive -- a 30% reduction in investments for our country, which consolidated -- and rained on wet -- the lack of budget execution and the lack of commitment of the People's Party governments, which amounted to more than 2,400 million euros. All of this, without the presence of voices in the courts of the State at this time that made a Greek political agenda necessary, both for the development of infrastructures and in general for socio-economic development, for territorial and social cohesion for our country. So we thought it was a loss of important opportunities, and we assume that citizenship will take care of this. We are going to support this initiative because it seems to us to put it on the table, as it has done in Marea for the last few months and during the years of its existence, the need to make problems of the state of the problems that our country has, to give them a political solution, when most of the Government is organized, within the sphere of the competences of the State itself, both in matters of competences, in matters of transfers, as in matters of investment, in terms of infrastructure, as in matters of the environment, as in matters of social cohesion, and, therefore, in the interests of a citizen that seems to have resulted in great prejudice to the lack of Government in recent weeks or in recent months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u241	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Joint Left Group, Mr. Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u242	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. All Chinese are the same: opportunists, electoralists, tactics, and these are movements we are seeing here today in this Parliament too. I am not going to enter these debates because they do not move from activism to institutional work for these battles, I have come here to change the reality of people, and, of course, to seek allies in those who can change that reality. And I'm going to focus my attention where I think we should be central. With regard to the initiative, we will support this initiative as we have done so many times. This kind of proposal has already been made on other occasions, the problem that is being put on the table today is not new, it's a problem that we've lived on for many years, not four, as has been said here. Even since 2010 the state's investment in Galicia is beginning to fall in an important way, up to the latest figures we have seen recently, which are totally unfair and which, of course, cannot tolerate, and we have to demand a plan to reverse this situation. Mr Prado's intervention is curious, in which he says they have always defended the same thing and he says they've always been the guarantors of all this. Of course, you forgot what happened in the last ten years, because reality is different. You've been voting against this kind of initiative, because you've come more, when Mr. Rajoy was ruling in the State Government, and you've always been voting against this kind of initiative. Now they vote in favour. You haven't always been in the same position. You now criticise the fall of the investment, but you were silent in 2013 when the state investment dropped by 50%. He fell in half, from 2012 to 2013, and they were absolutely quiet. Now they're the big defenders of Galicia, but at that time they weren't so much. And in 2016 another 30% fell back on the state budget, and you, the People's Party, both the People's Group and the Government of Galicia, were absolutely silent. And not only that, I hope, at least they were quiet. They were boasting of the great Minister of Development that we had in the state and that he was very well with Galicia, words that they said were members of the People's Party, the People's Group, the spokesperson of the People's Group and even the president of the Galician Union, after a 70% fall of the budget during the Government of Mariano Rajoy. That was the Council of Galicia during these years, which had absolutely nothing to worry about and even went out to defend the Government of the State. The same thing that happened with AP-9, that you were voting here, in Madrid they blocked their debate, and they came here to defend the good that was being carried by the Madrid PP. By the way, speaking of AP-9, I also want to take advantage of the propaganda that the People's Party is making these days with the great price cuts, that great measure, with that great incidence of eliminating the tolls of the sweets of the night at six o'clock in the morning, which we all know is when everyone is moving in the vehicle, and with that fantastic measure they intend to press for AP-9 to lower their price. The last AP-9 agreement with Development is with the People's Party. The latest changes that exist signed by Fômento con Audasa are from the Popular Party. I don't know why the People's Party at that time didn't sign a fee discount, why he asks for it now and at that time he didn't. Because you're very lyrical and little will read it, and while they rule, one thing, and when they don't rule, another very different thing. I don't know if this is paying attention to the Parliamentary decoration, because I have been altered by some of the Members of the People's Party. So we are going to support this BNG proposal, which we think is essential, urgent and very necessary. I want to focus attention on two issues. One is the necessary investment in infrastructure. On the one hand, I think it's quite right that there's a much greater development in the railway infrastructure. I think it's one of the most urgent things we have to do about the need to drive collective transport and sustainable mobility to deal with climate change, climate change that Mr Tellado denies, and it's very important to get there. Then another question has to do with the highways, the roads and so on. We believe that all budgets should be centred on the serious problem we have with sinisterity, with the highest sinisterity. That's where we're headed as to the black spots of the state's road network. So we think it's the most urgent thing to do. For our own sake, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u243	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u244	The opportunity for this debate, this proposal, has become clear. On the one hand, the need to talk about these issues and also the discomfort of some groups with this kind of debate because they force them to remove the mask and to portray themselves. Above all, the mask of the People's Party, of its silence complicit with these atrocities, especially when it ruled its party in Madrid. I remind you that I asked you -- you didn't say anything to me -- what was the follow-up commission on the state budget investments they announced in 2017? A measure for the gallery that then disappeared. Mr. Álvarez Martínez, do not twist my words. I didn't blame the Socialist Government for all these great threats and cataclysms, what I said was that this situation was much more worrisome when there are risks that are there, on the horizon, of a possible economic recession, also of international geopolitical tensions and also the reality of climate emergency, which will agree with me that it is much easier to confront with a government that is in full than with a government in standby, in functions. I also don't twist the execution data, because to say the 2018 execution is 116%, that's cheating and you know it perfectly. The Ministry of Defence data you have, please do!, a 3% runout of 3,000%! There's a trap for the frigates, you know. Because, really, what we're talking about is the investments of the Ministry of Development, and that's where the percentage was 56%; they left without running 400 million, shared responsibility between the People's Party and the Socialist Party that ruled throughout 2018. Yes, committed, but one thing is compromised and another is invested. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Real investment, it's data, it's data. We have no problem accepting the Socialist Party's amendment on the investments of the Union, although we believe that this would lead to a different and new debate, which we can give and which we will do in the debate on State budgets, of course. We also have no problem accepting Amendment No. 4 from the People's Party, which is the only one they have submitted to add something to what BNG said in their proposal. Look, Mr. Martiño, or Martín, or whatever you want to call yourself, that nobody gets nervous, the BNG is where the people put it, we're here in this Parliament to talk about these issues. What the BNG is not going to do is shut up in front of the outrage, the abuse, the discrimination of this country. He'll defend Galicia's interests wherever he is, against the People's Party and against the Socialist Party when he needs it. [[Applause]] You don't understand what democracy means. Democracy means pacting, reaching agreements for the benefit of people, and BNG arrives at agreements for the benefit of people. He also knows that the People's Party is especially harmful, so we have reached agreements in the MPs and in the municipalities with other political forces for the good of the people and for the good of this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u245	Thank you. Time's up. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Gonzalo Trenor López and 17 other Members, on the maintenance by the Galician Defence Board in front of UNESCO of a candidature for the declaration as the heritage of humanity of the entire current territory of the Galician National Park and which does not exclude the archipelagos of Ons and Salvora or the island of Cortegada
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u246	There are amendments from all groups.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u247	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Egerique has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u248	Thank you, President. Good morning. We have registered this proposal not by law for statements by different political figures, relevant to the Greek landscape, who have questioned a work that has come for a long time. A work that could begin with the creation of the Atlantic National Park, unanimously supported by this Parliament in the referral to Congress of its creation law. That was 2000 and the law is 2002. Then the People's Party ruled, and indeed the opposition groups' objections, far from going on the path of restricting the extension of the park, were, on the contrary, on the path of their enlargement, as reflected in the fact that the later processing of the Congress was added by instances of the Socialist Group to the island of Cortegada. Welcome out at that moment, and so on, the island of Cortegada. For we, every day most astonished by certain statements by leaders of the Socialist Party, want to strengthen this Parliament's support for the candidacy of the Cyes-National Park of the Atlantic Islands the heritage of humanity, without the exclusion of the islands of Ons, of Salvora or of Cortegada. We want that spirit of the year 2000, and we want that spirit without excluding anyone, because one thing is the singing of sirens through all the means of communication that may exist, and another is the arguments in parliamentary headquarters, the votes and what we have every group here. So I think it's important that each party manifests itself in the face of such an important candidacy. Ladies and gentlemen, as you well know, behind the resolution of a certain UNESCO natural heritage candidacy, the heritage of humanity is a very difficult procedure, which sometimes takes longer than we would like, and precisely that time is what Socialist Abel Caballero uses as a shield and pretext to lie or to deceive in a way, I will explain later why. For almost six years he's been talking about a possible candidacy of the Cyes Islands alone; but speaking -- I insist -- because there are no performances, no facts, no procedures, nothing, there's only a lot of money spent on tourism promotion. Yesterday they spoke of a massive tourist promotion to those archipelagos, which is not the most appropriate, made by the Deputy of Pontevedra and the Vigo Council, without any intention and no administrative procedure for the Cys Islands to be in the solitary heritage of humanity. So yours is a phantom candidacy, there is only this one that we want to reaffirm today in the Galician Parliament. In contrast to that, the Galician Union has advanced on this subject. I'm going to do a chronology and, therefore, I think it will be reflected in official papers or hemerothecs. To speak of Abel Caballero's statements I can only refer to the hemerothec; to speak of the facts of the Board, there are official documents that believe what has been done. So, this one we are presenting today is a solid, integrative and realistic candidacy, and today we know that you will not deny that this is finally a reality. Let's go to the key dates. In November 2013 the Vigo Council announced the proposal for the Ciudads to be the heritage of mankind. In January 2015 announcement of promotional actions to push that candidacy. In 2015, and already in 2014, 200,000 euros were spent on that impulse without anything in the way. In January 2015, Caballero announced that he temporarily parked the plan to declare World Heritage Weeks. To park is to shut up a mouse and stop talking about it. On May 14, 2015 Knight announces the proposal to declare Cies as the heritage of humanity as one of his great bets for the following term. In other words, in the past he had done absolutely nothing; he already begins with the electoral arguments. In February 2016 Caballero says that he is waiting for the best time so that the Cías can become the heritage of humanity and that he is making presentations in different places with great success. It's right after Fitur. If you are aware of the date, you presented this in Fitur without having anything to argue with, no administrative proceedings. He also says the Board doesn't support this. But the Union argues, and it can also prove it, that it has not received any requests and any documentation on this subject. In February 2016, the Environment Advisor said in Vigo that it could be much more solid, feasible and realistic that it was the natural park in its entire heritage of humanity. In May 2016, Abel Caballero announced that he planned to start, after the summer, the process of declaring the Islands World Heritage Weeks. This is already in May 2016. And he also says he's looking for a concrete formula -- I'm saying because they're textual words -- So he admits that until May 2016 he had done absolutely nothing. In July 2016, Caballero reiterates that in the fall he will present the candidature. It is still passing time, and in October 2016 it says that the first step - three years later - will be the preparation of an information document to support the candidacy of Ciés, and that in three or four years it may be a reality. So make an estimate to the eye. In January 2017, Abel Caballero says the Vigo Council finalizes the document that will be presented in two months officially for the candidacy of the Cyes Islands. I know he's tired, he's very tired, but there's only one date left. October 2017, in which it says that the candidacy of the Cyes Islands is at the scientific stage. Then stay so calm. We don't know if she'll be in NASA, but the board hasn't received any documents yet to invite her to participate in that candidacy procedure. It's funny, because fifteen days ago he wrote a letter to the president of the board asking him to withdraw the only application. What we want to ask ourselves here is why you want to withdraw that candidacy. This, in addition, is the reasoning and why we are now presenting this non-law proposal for urgent procedure. In October 2017, Junta passed a decisive test with its candidacy. The Spanish Historical Heritage Council, composed of the seventeen autonomous communities and the Government of the State, approved the inclusion in the national indicative list. In February 2018, the registration of the candidacy entered UNESCO in order to be part of this UNESCO club as a natural asset. In May 2019, the agreement with the three universities, so that between them, all together, and all Galicia as a whole, can make a level form according to the application to be submitted. The Galician Union and the Vigo Town Hall have the same objectives -- the Vigo Town Hall, not the Vigo Mayor -- that the Cyastic Islands are the heritage of humanity. There are only two differences, which the city's own mayor, Abel Knight, denies that right to other municipalities, we don't know why; and he only talks, but he doesn't work, for that purpose, he works for himself. It works, we also recognize that it works, but it doesn't work to make the national park the heritage of humanity, it works for itself. You can't think of a child for this subject. We can't let the prompt whim of a politician who practises a selfish policy, that all knowledge, bring all work to the ground. A candidacy that is of justice - I believe - to Galicia and the rest of Spain. We can't stay out. World Heritage in Spain are national parks such as Garajonai in Canary Islands, such as Doñana in Andalusia, such as Teide in Canary Islands; as a whole, not individually. So Vigo never had such an opportunity, neither did Bueu, nor Vilagarcia, nor did Ribeira, and we, from Parliament and as Greeks who we are, representatives of all the Greeks, have to support this candidacy because we believe it is a good thing for the Low Ries, for the province of Pontevedra and - I insist - for entire Galicia. Some questions must be asked. What weight does Abel Caballero have to ask to withdraw this candidacy? Is there anything else behind their intentions that hatred and resentment towards a specific politician or a concrete administration? Why don't you join this job and this request? It's beneficial for Vigo I insist. We're talking about that we all have the same goals, and the Cites are going to be the heritage of mankind. If there was any argument of weight more than the one that Junta attacks Vigo, I'd like to meet him. I don't know if the Members of the Socialist Party will know, but I'd like to meet him. We all want Cies to be the heritage of humanity, but the Atlantic Islands that make up the park as well, the park as a whole. We have a very close, well known and similar case, which is the theme of the Sacred Ribeira. The Holy Ribeira is an official candidate from Spain, finally entering the list of humanity's heritage in 2021; a candidacy that involved Galician Union, two deputies, twenty municipalities. This was a climate of institutional normality, collaboration and cooperation. Imagine, to know how ridiculous this mayor was, that a mayor of the 20th of the Sacred Ribeira had said he only wanted the Sacred Ribeira on the right bank of the river, or not, better to see her left, or the weirness, or only the Sacred Ribeira shine. That's ridiculous! Well that's what you're doing, Caballero, what happens is that the islands seem like they're already divided and we don't realize that much. Cites leads the candidacy and, if I may, leads the natural park. Cíes, in this case, is the jewel of the crown, but they are not the islands of Abel Caballero, so they are islands that gave nature to all the Greeks, which we included from this Parliament in a natural park, and which we have, in addition, achieved through a law. So, I would like to reiterate, as a conclusion, that the fact of wanting to invent an alternative candidacy - to be invented because there is no, I insist - is to attack the existing Isles Cíes-Parque Natural Isles Atlantica, which is already included in the national indicative list and registered as a candidate for UNESCO. Besides, to make those statements is also to put it in danger, is to resist doing harm not only to the other municipalities and districts, but to the municipality of Vigo and to the Cyes itself, because the alternative of which he so much speaks has no chance of success. I insist, we call for support for this initiative because it is positive for all the Greeks and the Greeks less for one — or it seems — that it wins elections by triggering debates like this, which I think would be nowhere else if it hadn't been for him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u249	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u250	Good morning again. Since our parliamentary group we have tabled an amendment because we think we share the wording of the proposal. Beyond the situation of opportunity or not to present it, or opportunism or not to present it — that it goes to the very edge of everyone— we, of course, support the idea that there is at the bottom because we understand that the Atlantic islands constitute a series of natural values, heritage values and cultural values that must be treated as a unit in their appreciation, as a unit in their protection and therefore also as a unit in their promotion. We think that in this categorization of islands, of their protection, of their promotion and conservation, there can be no islands of first and second, as there can also be no municipalities of first and second. There are some who may have a categorized configuration of an island in one form and others in another. We believe that this debate should not, in any case — never — occur under these circumstances. We therefore want to overcome localist struggles. We think this is good not only for Vigo, not only for Bueu, not only for Vilagarcia or for Ribeira, it's good for all Galician citizenship and it's good for all the people with whom we share a treasure that is fundamental to us, and the things that are good are good for sharing them. And being the same values, being the same natural heritage and the same cultural and human heritage, it's good that we have the ability to share it as a unit. Now, we tabled an amendment because, in the same way that the People's Group believes it was necessary, that it was appropriate, to bring this debate now precisely because there is a political controversy with regard to the park, we also think that there is a conflict — it was also seen yesterday in the counsellor's own appearance — and we think that it must also be clear what the position of the political groups in this regard is. The amendment we make is an amendment to add, therefore, part of admitting the content and purpose of the proposal itself but adds to the whole previous "while respecting the rights of the islands as an integral part of the historical and cultural values of the archipelagos", so that we make an express declaration of commitment to the value that the inhabitants, the past — the memory of the past — and also the present, and the commitment we want to have with them and with them in the future, when they consider themselves as the heritage of humanity. So we do not want islands to be excluded and we do not want islands or islands to be excluded — if you can say so in some way. I'm sure the proponent fully understands the meaning of our amendment, and I would even dare say that, after the debate we had yesterday — that for moments was tense but, in general, I think it was edifying because we all had a chance to know better what the claims were, which was the legitimate position of Ons' neighbourhood, today we are in better conditions of taking this amendment. Why? Because it is part of this immaterial treasure, that is to say, the most sensitive part, not only the values that are seen, but also the values that are not seen, which are perceived only by human contact, something that UNESCO itself recognises, and not only in this candidacy — which, of course, was exalted by the Council of Galicia as one of its essential components — the component of the heritage value and cultural value that gave it also the fact that it was historically inhabited, particularly in the case of Ons, something that UNESCO has recognized for decades now in promoting and recognizing the heritage of humanity. And also -- we said yesterday -- because it seems to us that it is positive, that it is good, that a social message is being launched, in the sense that the protection of natural values and the environment is not contrary to human presence. So it's also a call to the whole society that always welcomes protection from progressive environmental protection figures, because it's possible to live together between values and others. So that's what we wanted to expose yesterday and what we want to expose today, and we're sure one thing isn't incompatible with the other. Therefore, since this amendment is incorporated, we will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u251	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u252	Mrs. Egerique, for a moment I thought you missed the Vigo Town Hall. I knew I was going to tell him, of course! [[Laughter]] Because you come here, from the majority party in this Parliament, to oppose the Vigo Council again — it seems that they have a permanent frustration there. [[Mr. Egerique Mosquera speaks words that are not perceived.]] Look, we're not going to participate in this absolutely absurd and useless war, in this childish confrontation around the Cyes Islands: to see who wants the most on the Cyes Islands, to see who most defends the Cyes Islands, to see who does more to end the Cyes Islands; because at this rate you seem to compete for it. What's wrong? That this is an irresponsible attitude because they are putting the declaration at risk as the heritage of humanity. And he puts at risk Vigo's irresponsible mayor, who is a kamikaze, this subject has left him in evidence; and he also puts her at risk to Galician Union, and they do it because of partyism and selfishness, and also because of selfishness. The reality is that the candidacy that is being submitted and which has been supported throughout the world before UNESCO is the candidacy of the Atlantic Islands, indeed, which has changed over time and is pending a final decision. And there's a commission of experts that has to evaluate and evaluate the candidacy in situ. Do you imagine you can think of that commission of experts from the unfortunate show that is being dealt with on this matter by the Board and by the Vigo Council? Because if you're now around here and you have to make a decision in the near future, checking on site the values of this space, and you read the press, of course, I don't think they're very keen to support this candidacy. It is therefore irresponsible to put the future and the viability of this candidacy at risk. In case it's too little, you're still putting more firewood on Ons' case. And we told them yesterday that, where there was no problem, you just created it and put Ons people on their feet to fight, on their feet to war, in defense of their historic rights that you want to trample. And that's also a very serious problem because, of course, we want Ons to be the heritage of humanity, and at the same time, we want humanity to be the heritage of Ons because it's the greatest that it has. The people who defended the island, who worked on it, who lived on it, who are buried there, who love the island, who wants the best for the island, it's no problem. And we have to find a solution to that question. You have to integrate, add Ons people to that candidacy, but you're working in the opposite direction. Let's hope that after yesterday's debate they go back on their way, they change their course and look for the integration of Ons people into that candidacy. Look, in the candidatures for the heritage of humanity, two aspects are worth: cultural and natural. Although in this you seem to value natural people more, they also consider themselves -- and people who value them also -- cultural values. And there it is said, in particular, that these goods must constitute an outstanding example of traditional human habitat or establishment, representative of a vulnerable culture or culture. Yeah, look, this definition looks like it might be perfect for Ons. Ons is a central element of that candidacy and they have to do their best to add Ons to it. Besides, this has to do with a debate that we had yesterday, which is absolutely central, which is how to solve the participation and involvement of populations in protected natural spaces. It is a grave mistake to act from behind people; to try to impose actions and measures; not to contemplate actions and measures of development, of stimulus, of empowerment of traditional activities, of the economy, of culture, of the services of these people, and that people understand that being a natural park, being a national park, is a problem, it's a trap; we have to avoid that. This is therefore an absolutely central debate for this issue and also for the future, for other possible natural parks and national parks. That is why we have tabled a number of amendments that add up to their proposal and we believe they enrich that proposal. The first of them is precisely the one that has to do with the recognition of Ons' neighborhood, with the guarantee of his rights and also the guarantee of access to the island.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u253	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u254	Making an investment plan, creating a board by Ons where all the parties are involved, are fundamental measures to give the park viability and also the people who want that park and this candidacy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u255	Thank you, Mr Bará. Joint Left Parliamentary Group, Mr Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u256	Thank you, President. Good day again to all and to all. It may also seem to us that it may be appropriate to make a joint candidacy for the natural heritage of the entire archipelago, which we do not think fit is the way in which this whole question is being handled, because of how one is leaving aside the vicinity of Ons — which is a topic we have already dealt with yesterday — and how one is using this issue in a partisan way and with interest in seeking confrontation; another episode of the People's Party's confrontation with Abel Caballero. That interest, that priority of using this as a bold element to confront, and that they have urgently brought this initiative today. You justified bringing this initiative today urgently because Abel Caballero made statements. That shows that the only interest is confrontation, because there was no urgency for bureaucratic matters, nor for matters of procedure, simply because Abel Caballero showed his opinion and you had the need to counter-attack. For that they come to use this House and for that they bring this initiative, to counter Abel Knight with this matter. I told the counsellor yesterday, also talking about Ons' problems: a responsible government, a responsible group, is the one who seeks solutions to the problems of citizenship, not the one who, like you in this case, seeks confrontation and seeks confrontation, generating problems where there should be none, when what they have to look for is dialogue and formulas that should be demanded from any minimally responsible party, to any group, to any government, to any minimally responsible administration. In that sense, we tabled an amendment — as you would see — in which we asked the Council of Galicia to sit down and talk to Ons' neighbouring to discuss this issue; and it would, of course, be with the approval and collaboration of the neighbourhood of Ons with which this would have to be done. Just as in the matter of access, we need to look for formulas that are good so that their presence is sustainable and that we can maintain that cultural and intangible wealth that the Ons population assumes. In this question, we also understand that we need to prioritize this neighborhood, sit with them and look for formulas. It's logical to distrust Ons' neighborhood when they encounter this question right after the Galician board's proposal to delimit its presence on the island. It's logical that they give them distrust, it's logical that they turn against it; what we have to do is sit down and see if it's beneficial, if it's positive, to the neighborhood of Ons, which I think it can be, what we have to look for your approval and your agreement to accompany the process. And if not, we understand that we should not continue with this process. We also said yesterday that the neighborhood of Ons is a fundamental value that we have to preserve in Ons, and it already has a lot of difficulty in being able to live in that place. As you know, today, and throughout the year, there are only older people, because people who have to look for work, people who have to send children and children to school, in Ons can't do it; there is a lack of services — of light, of transportation, of all kinds — that makes living there difficult. So we have to make every effort to keep that population active. And I would also like to take advantage of this -- because we have this sudden interest of the People's Party in the Atlantic Islands and in the conservation of the National Park of the Atlantic Islands -- to remind them that, in addition to the tourist issues and in addition to the propaganda issues, which are filled with newspaper headlines and that are very high, the Atlantic Islands need an intervention of conservation and environmental recovery which I think should be what should be most of our concern to us, which we should prioritize, because it is a national park and, if we want to continue to be able to use it in a tourist and propagandistic way, we must preserve its natural values. The Atlantic Islands have been suffering a lot of threats in recent years, specifically, Cies, which is the battle horse, with the oversaturation of people who have had. Black about white, this is not an opinion, there are studies that already indicate the aggressions that have occurred to biodiversity in the Cys, which needs a conservation and recovery action, and yet in all this debate it seems that we are forgetting this, we are forgetting this, and we need to do this. And with regard to the Atlantic Islands, since there is now this sudden interest in preserving all this archipelago, we also need to remind the People's Party that having a pit where tons and tons of dredging mud are put at two kilometers from Salvora, because very good for the biodiversity of the natural environment is not, and very good for biodiversity existing in the seabeds of the Atlantic Islands is not. So we take advantage of this interest of the People's Party in the conservation of the Atlantic Islands so that, in addition to propaganda and tourism issues, we also did what we needed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u257	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u258	...environmental intervention. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u259	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u260	Thank you, President. Good morning to all Members and Members. I want to begin my intervention by giving a series of data that I think it is necessary to remember. The national park consists of four islands: Salvora, Ons, Cíes and Cortegada. It's good that you're now worried about Cortagada, which was acquired for the public heritage, for the neighbors of Carril, for President Emilio Pérez Touriño. While Fraga was president of the Union, he did not worry too much, nor did he, why Franco had sold the island of Cortegada. Now they seem to care a lot. This natural park was declared such in 2002 and transferred to Junta in 2008, also with Emilio Pérez Touriño as president. A management plan was already being discussed in 2002. It's essential, it's the main management tool of a national park. You took ten years to pass it; since 2008, more than ten years to approve the management plan since you were transferred to the Galician Union. We've been from the first day in favor of the management plan, in fact, we've done a lot of initiatives asking you to get the management plan out of it. And the candidacy is February 2018, so it's already in UNESCO. Now you come with this non-law proposal by means of urgency and say, "It is justified in the need for a clear pronouncement of Parliament's will." Humbly, I don't think, with the data I just gave you, the urgency of this initiative today. Why are you bringing her here today? To provoke controversy...? Because on my own initiative — I will speak of your intervention — they speak of the current drift of the PSdEG and boycott. That, then, fits little, within my ability, with a clear statement of Parliament's will. What urgency do you have now? And, above all, for you to serve this non-law proposal, because you have 41 Members and Members, every time they come here they tell us -- we know -- and they haven't tried at least one approach to the neighborhood and the municipalities. Yesterday we checked it out, when conciergemen, conciergemen and neighbors and neighbors of Bueu came in. This is a truly opportunistic initiative, Mrs. Egerique. Besides, all of a sudden, you have a lot of interest in the national park. But you have to have a lot of tough faces to say that you have so much interest when in your -- because you only voted it -- the law of natural heritage and biodiversity have set up a minimum surface so large that we won't have any other national park in Galicia where we will live while this law -- that you only voted — remain in force as it is. He will be the only candidate, the only national park candidate to be the heritage of humanity exclusively in Galicia. Yesterday the councillor asked for consensus to make the candidacy strong. We absolutely agree with that request. But then, the counselor herself called the field herself, put in the publicity campaign of the People's Party - only the jingle of the music of the People's Party was missing - and began to speak ill of the mayors of Vigo, Vilagarcia and Bueu; curiously spoke well of the mayor of Ribeira, it could be because the mayor of Ribeira is of the People's Party, at best not, perhaps we are wrong. Just like the spirit of this proposal not of law. There is no other spirit: to embarrass and irresponsibly provoke the weakness of the candidacy. In fact, when you came out here, I didn't really understand why you were coming out. The same argument that Mr. Trenor used yesterday and Mr. Trenor didn't leave. Above all, I didn't understand very well because, with the mess of concierge you had in the Vigo Town Hall... in the end I realized that, in fact, you are now a conceivant in the Vigo Town Hall, so you're here; then, you don't fit well with the written justification of this non-law proposal. There are other applications in Galicia: the Iron of Illustration, the Sacred Ribeira, the Ancares-Somiedo Natural Park, and you are concerned only about this candidacy before UNESCO. Ferrol has been waiting since 2007, they've never spoken, they've never spoken or had an emergency. And, look!, UNESCO only approves a project every two years and, without consensus, we are wasting precious time. We believe that it is necessary for the proposal to be consensual, to be supported unanimously by all the participants. Any Greek candidacy must be based on that consensus, because otherwise the project has already been born dead. And it is not that we want it, that it is so requested by UNESCO, and so so requested by the International Council of Monuments and Places, that they ask for that consensus. We think it's necessary, Mrs. Egerique, to stop thinking...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u261	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u262	...to be located in Vigo Town Hall and that the Board is in the task of dialogue, precisely, so that the proposal is consensual before taking any steps, not using this Parliament, as they always do, to make political opportunism and hide their own...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u263	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u264	...unsuitable. Thank you very much. We hope our amendment is accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u265	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. The author group of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u266	Thank you, President. I'm going in order, a little bit also because all the groups have tabled amendments and the interventions we just had in the debate. Mr. Villares, first of all. We understand perfectly — I do not know if Mr Villares is — the meaning of the amendment but these are different debates. I don't know what the problem your group would have with voting on the text that we bring here today and which I have explained, but I will explain again why we want to reaffirm this candidacy and Parliament's unanimous support. So yesterday it became clear that the PRUX does what it does is to protect Ons' neighbours, the islands, and not to harm them. I believe, moreover, that the Atlantic Islands are the heritage of humanity will strengthen its protection and, therefore, I think that is time, that is another debate, and this amendment does not take place in our text today. Mr Bará, you've already qualified the person who generates this. We bring this because you asked for the withdrawal of the candidacy and that's harmful. You're talking about the media... what will you say to UNESCO when you see a mayor with an absolute majority, who has legitimacy to speak, asking for the withdrawal of a candidacy that supports all of Galicia? We also want UNESCO today to see that all the Greek Members refer to this candidacy, because if it is true that it endangers, it puts at risk, because of its personal care — as you said here and you called it very well, a candidate who wants to present all Galicia. So we don't want to put anything at risk. Your amendment I believe that these are points that were discussed in yesterday's debate, that we could come to some agreement if you put it on a PNL outside this one, because we believe that these issues you are presenting here do not have to do with the effect and the sense of what we want to adopt today in this Parliament. Mr. Cal, you say you leave Ons' neighbours alone; that's not true and it became clear yesterday, it's not true! I insist, both the Declaration of Human Heritage and the PRUX itself approved by this Council of Galicia protects the neighbours and protects the islands, does not harm them. The confrontation is with Abel Knight against all, it is not with the People's Party or from one group against another, it is with Abel Knight against all Galicia, and you have to know it. So, of course, this Parliament is legitimate to ask that this candidacy which is presented by the Galician Council and which is presented by all Galicia be a candidacy — I insist — supported by all. But you continue to defend Mr. Knight, Mr. Cal, which is not wrong to us, it is legitimate, but I think you must have a little more careful to decide and then vote the resolutions. Mrs. Vilan, I've already said welcome Cortegada. I don't have the rearviewer set, welcome Cortegada and let's look forward. No, I don't. And look, I say one thing, I insist on the urgency: if the socialist mayor continues to ask for the withdrawal, as he does, with viral videos on Youtube, with led lights, etc., he endangers the candidacy. That's why today we want UNESCO to also have a resolution by Parliament in Galicia in which it is unanimously called for the candidacy to be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u267	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u268	...absolutely throughout the national park and not only through the Cyes Islands, which also did not present anything. That is why, as it is at risk, we urgently submit this initiative, and we use Parliament because we believe that this is the House which must refer that request. We'll support the natural park candidacy when it is, when you pose it, or...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u269	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u270	...that you think about other ways, and you will go in addition to the territories to boycott it. I insist. Your amendment, Mrs Vilán, is to turn around so as not to want to vote on this text, and we insist that there is no problem...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u271	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u272	...I don't know what problem you might have with voting on this text. So we won't accept the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u273	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the action to be taken by the Government of Galicia for the activation of the tanks, as well as for the maintenance of employment and industrial activity, at the Alcoa factory in San Cibrao, and the demands to be made by the Central Government to address the crisis of the Greek electrointensive industry
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u274	There are amendments to the Joint Parliamentary Group and to the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u275	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u276	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Ladies and gentlemen, almost a year ago, since last October 2018, we have been debating on numerous occasions in this House about the situation of Alcoa in Coruña and Avilés, after the company announced its intention to close the facilities in these locations. In this respect, we have been discussing several times about the future of the aluminium sector in our country, a sector that for any advanced country, like what we want Galicia to be, is strategic. Months of social mobilization, months of political pressure on the Greek and central governments by the workers and civil society have managed to continue a path to what today, in the case of Alcoa Avilés and La Coruña, from July we saw a small air valve, we saw a time for this company, although today we must also remember that they are working exclusively in the foundry and that they are not operating normally yet. But the truth is that during these months too, we kept talking about the situation of San Cibrao, something we were worried about in an important way, because the fact is, seeing how the company acted in its international strategy and in its strategy specifically with our country, it seemed hard to believe that it had no more or less explicit intention to continue on a similar path. Today, almost a year after all these debates, the truth is, the big fundamental problems, which basically for our industry is the price of energy, are still there. The underlying problems are still there, and today the truth is that the alarm signals are being triggered about the situation of San Cibrao, and since BNG we think it is important, as we commit to the workers and workers of this company, that this first full session of this new session is positioned and sends a unanimous message that is in keeping with the circumstances. The fact is, as your lordships will know, by the end of August the direction of Alcoa, once again under this energy price, confirmed the decision to stop 32 of the 512 electrolytic tanks; a decision that must also be remembered that it is the second cut that this company suffers in the Navy in the next year. The first one did so after the company had known that draft statute of electrointensives that we could meet in March -- with months of delay, we have to say too -- a draft that many political and social agents -- including the Nationalist Block Galego and the own company committee -- amended, which was to be for the beginning of the election campaign in April and it wasn't, then it was to be in May and it wasn't, then in June, then in July, then in August and then in September. In the end, we're already at the door of a general election again and we're still out of status. It's more evidence than we can expect from the central government: that they use something as fundamental to our country as a mere electoral strategy. Today we understand that this situation is unacceptable, so we understand that once again - although we are aware that we have done so before - it is important that this Parliament again demand an immediate approval of this statute. We understand that it is unacceptable from any point of view, whether there is government or not, that there are budgets or not, that this question remains beyond 2019, because the fact is that this is a wildling weapon that is using the companies themselves in the sector, and Alcoa is a paradigmatic example, to push, to demand questions for their benefit, while not clarifying what it will do or stop doing to these workers, who are, in the end, the ones paying for this situation. It must be borne in mind that today we are talking about a reduction in production by 11% of this marine plant. This leaves a situation of deep concern and uncertainty for what is the fundamental economic motor, not the Navy, but all over Place, and it is also very important for our country in global terms. Consequences that are already seen in any event that are at home, that are already seen in a slight affect of the auxiliary industry and that, above all, you are already seen in that great parallelism of many events that we have seen before in the Coruña. Of course, it must be borne in mind that they depend on San Cibrao around 2,000 workers who have a quality job and industrial employment and social rights, which is something that is scarce in our country. The aluminum plant employs more than 500 people, the aluminium plant, about 1,200, and we have to add the impact on the auxiliaries, which is at least 500 people, thinking of the auxiliaries who work directly with Alcoa San Cibrao. On August 21st, the committee itself went out again to the public lecture to demand the involvement of the administrations. It's not the first time they make this question. I would like to recall that in March of last year, after all this question untied by the draft of the statute of electrointensives, a number of proposals were brought to all parliamentary groups - the Nationalist Block of Wales made its own and, unfortunately, the People's Party voted against - ambitious proposals, with structural measures, such as, for example, the need to modify the tariff system of such industries, which was a stable tariff, which had been through State budgets and which were also excluded from the fees that do not have to do with maintenance of the electrical system. They also included clauses for the maintenance of employment and control by public administrations, because that was the main problem that led us to this situation after many years of injection of public resources by successive central governments without any kind of control. They also talked about other issues that we believe should continue to be considered, such as the issue of bilateral contracts, to intervene in the pool also to undermine the bill for domestic consumers and consumers. It's a matter that we also include in our proposal on pauses. This is a system that we have to aspire to change for a stable industrial tariff, and of course what is not acceptable is that as soon as that does not happen, far from fulfilling the demands of workers and workers, the Government is constantly changing, as it did in the last bid, the conditions, thereby prejudicing our country in a concrete way. Also over the course of this time, we were able to present up to two bills in which we asked for specific questions and who also counted on the vote against the People's Party. We insist: we have to plan how we replace this electrical system and in the future how we configure the electrical system. Of course, our country doesn't have to keep the role it has today, which is a power reserve without receiving anything in return. It seems that little by little - from what we see in the amendments - the state forces are coming to the water and they are recognizing that, by opening this debate, our country must receive some benefit. Something we're going to move forward and something's going to recognize. Next thing you know, they finally assume that what we need is a Welsh electric fare for our country. I don't know if the president of the Galician Union during these years has been reflecting on those statements in which he told us in 2017 that "no Spanish would understand that light was paid according to each area." "He has criticized that while in Europe they are trying to agree on a common energy approach there are people who believe that they can be different. These approaches are not supported either in Spain or in the European Union." Unfortunately, the damned hemerotheca, and reality is stubborn, and we also have the European Union, the Commission, which rejects the complaint that it was going against the question of Basque tariff as an illegal aid from the State, recognizing that it is legitimate to compensate discrimination of the type by means of the question of electric tariff. We will, of course, continue to question this question, because the People's Party is right to take us down and without brakes in industrial matters. Today we want it to be Wednesday -- they often happen when we're full -- and we already have data from the industrial production index; data from the industrial production index that confirm that Galicia goes down again in July for the eighth consecutive month. This is where the non-existent industrial policy of the Galician Union leads us: the coast below and without brakes. So today, too, with this initiative, we want to invite them to act and put themselves aside before it is too late. Today we include a proposal that since August is demanding the workers and workers of San Cibrao and that it does not take us to the head that is not a reality today, that is to set up a negotiating table where they aspire to involve their own Alcohol, in addition to the central and Galician administrations themselves and the company committee itself, without exclusions, with all the relevant trade union forces in this country - those they like and those they do not like - and that this may have a crop broth for a step ahead of our industry and that San Cibrao is not in danger. And the first thing we have to do, of course, is we understand that it is to have a firm position to demand this company that has to activate all the tanks immediately. This is absolutely fundamental. I'm done, Mr. President. I just want to remember that tomorrow the company committee itself has called a general assembly of workers to define the mobilisations of the next few months, and I think it is by receipt that they have a unanimous position in this Parliament saying that we are going to do this a matter of country and that it will be above the partisan interests of the forces represented here. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u277	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u278	Good afternoon. Another day on Marmot Day. Multinationals are clear: when you can take advantage of a country's political situation, you can take advantage of it to the last result. That's what Alcoa is doing. They removed Alcoa The Coruña and Alcoa Avilés and now they want to take advantage of the political situation in this country to take more advantage of it through Alcoa San Cibrao. The reality is that it is absolutely incredible that the Government of the State will no longer dictate, not public, the status of the electro-intensive industries. To say that you can't do that since a government in function is absolutely ridiculous, because there's hemerothetics the fault of things much more important than it takes a government in functions. The People's Party has made quite a few, mostly falcated, such as extending to sixty years, for example, the license to Cence. So that's politically indecent, but it seems like no one has ever shown it to be illegal at the moment. With which, don't tell me the Socialist Party that one thing with much less impact as it would be a ministerial order publishing the statute can't be done. You don't want to. It's extorting Galician society and Spanish society to get what they want. We know what they want: to be in government without anybody's duty. And that can't be, it's absolute irresponsibility. With that, we agree with most of the things proposed by the BNG non-law proposition, but I'm going to focus on what we put into the amendment, which we think in some correct things and in others it improves what they say. We don't agree to eliminate interruptability. Interruptibility is fundamental to the development of alternative energies. It's much cheaper than capacity payments, than that's really a timo. The 1.4 billion that were paid for having the power stations there by wrong business decisions we have to pay the electricity consumers. No, we're talking about flexible, reasonable interruption, a tertiary market, where companies could even improve their competitiveness, I've said it here many times. If a company estimates that for a month or fifteen days it will not have a productivity pressure, it can stop and offer those rights in that market, which could even be marketed per week, as is done in France, with a limit of around 200 million euros. And then that complements it with things that could already be implemented. It is true that the departure of 200 million euros to compensate for the indirect costs of C02 cannot be 200 million, because the 2019 budget is not approved, but Mr. Rajoy's 2018 budget already included 150 million. Why don't you run those 150 million already? No, no, if something works out, I recognize it... applaud, applaud, that we need applause. All right! [[Applause]] They already implement the 150 million, they already implement the difference that they stopped spending last year. Instead of the 92 they distributed, they distributed the 58 they stopped spending. [[Murmurs.]] Then — here they will no longer agree — what really solves the problem is what has been done in France — I said a thousand times, but here neither the Socialist Party nor the People's Party will vote in favour nor will much less applaud, of course, but it is what is being done in all countries — that is to get the electrical production systems already amortized from the daily auction pools, to get the hydraulics and nuclear. This is what France did, it gave it to supply the entire electro-intensive industry, and it took up 80 teravatios-hour to offer marketing groups to homes, lowering the rate to less than 40 euros mega-hour, a rate with which Alcoa would be more than profitable and we wouldn't be in this situation. And the same would affect Ferroatlantics, Megasa, etc. Finally, we are in favour of a measure which is already being defended in many European parliaments, which is the imposition of environmental tariffs based on the C02 footprint. It can't be that Alcoa, with the 1 billion people who took out breaks in Galicia, had set up the factory in Ma'aden, Saudi Arabia, burning fuel to produce electricity, burning fuel to produce water. It's a barbarity. Well, that aluminum is entering the port of Vigo massively, and that's why Alcoa in Galicia can afford to stop the tanks. That is the problem, the problem of environmental dumping. That doesn't go against any European law, you could start working on it. It's incredible that Spain is not working as it is already working in other European parliaments. It would be good if the Galician Parliament had adopted such a measure...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u279	Thank you, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u280	...to encourage the Spanish Government to do the same. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u281	Thank you, Mr. Casal. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u282	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. In relation to the proposal that BNG is bringing to this House today, our group shares the general lines of this House, but we are missing, perhaps, that there is no greater involvement of the Galician Union on this subject, since we understand that Galicia needs an impulse until now non-existent. That is why we tabled our amendment, because, in addition to the requests made to the Central Government, we understand that greater involvement should also be demanded of the Union in the drive of industrial policy, so we propose the creation of a table and the formation of a pact for the future of the Greek industry 2020-2024 in which all social, economic and political agents participate. And we believe it necessary because of the inactivity of the Union, which has prevented the development of an industrial policy in Galicia that has enabled us to overcome the effects of an industrial decline situation which has led to our community having the worst behavior in industrial production in which we've been in the past year. We also believe that the actions that have already been carried out and that the central government is carrying out in terms of industrial competitiveness, and I want to highlight them because it seems that the People's Party -- this party that now wants to banner and pull out political cuts on this issue -- this People's Party that both in the governments of Mariano Rajoy and Mr. Noñez Feijóo has abandoned their industrial policy -- now he wants to deceive and say that there have been no actions since the Central Government. The Royal Decree on urgent measures to boost economic competitiveness in the industry and trade sector in Spain, which has created a framework for increasing industry productivity and attracting new investments, even so, the call for and significant increase in aid for compensation for CO2 costs in 2019, and there was also a commitment by the Government of Pedro Sánchez to increase this share to 180 million. That is why we tabled this amendment, because, as I said, we have no problem in supporting this proposal, but we believe that the Union must also assume its competences and become involved in this problem. The Socialist Party also met with the San Cibrao Alcoa Business Committee to listen to their demands and to transfer our commitment to the maintenance of employment. We met with the legal representatives of the workers, the difference of the People's Party in the province of Lugo, who made a stay of institutional charges to take a picture at the entrance of the factory without meeting and worrying about the problems of the workers. [[Applause]] And then all they do is release statements by Mr. Feijóo's envoy in the province of Lugo, Mr. Balsairo, who in an act of political irresponsibility and a new facet we didn't know - the seer - vaccine fired on the plant, scaring the workers. Look, we no longer expect anything from the Government of Galicia in collaboration with the Central Government to find solutions to the electrointensives, because we've seen it in the case of the Crown, where all they've been doing is putting sticks on the wheels. Since they won't offer that collaboration, at least they won't disturb it, because, look, they're still lying and fooling the workers, and today let me say that I also believe that the voice of the Joint Group is doing so. You, like me, know that the approval of the status of electrointensives, both by its nature, by its strategic and political character, and by its relevant economic impacts, does not proceed by a government in function. It is important to remember that this statute develops article 4 of Royal Decree 20/2018, a royal decree which was passed by the Government of Pedro Sánchez, the only one who bet on this statute. What did Mariano Rajoy do for more than seven and a half years of government? What steps have you taken to adopt and develop this statute? What was the Galician People's Party doing? He was silent, and now I demand that we violate the government law of 1997, which does not allow this statute to be passed by a government in office. But it does not allow the Supreme Court's jurisprudence and the reports of the Council of State itself, nor do you, like me, know. I'm sure if we were to pass this statute of electrointensives, the People's Party would resort to justice, because we're violating an approved law, in addition to its party. It goes on to consider, as the Minister of Industry also considers it to be a priority to approve this statute, but we must do so when there is a government with full functions. They have been deceiving citizenship, gentlemen of the People's Party, first in the case of the Crown, denying that there was a buyer for the factory, and also torpedoing the sale, and now they continue to lie when they say that this status of electrointensives can be approved by a government in function. Move, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, to the German Government who stop polluting and get to work. Less propaganda and more work and planning, which, by the way, today, at the start of the school course, we see that this planning also fails because there are many schools that could not start their course due to the failure of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u283	Thank you, Mrs. Otero, your time is up. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u284	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to say that since the Joint Parliamentary Group on the Left, we are going to support this initiative, and we are going to support it because it is a matter which we have been dealing with on numerous occasions in this Parliament. His initiative is largely consistent with an initiative that our group has registered, since the defence of this country's industry is, as it could not otherwise be, an absolute priority for our political group. It's a priority and an emergency, because if something defines the industry advisor, it's the repeated closure of companies, the constant fall in industrial production. Alcohol, Ferroatlancia, Isowat, Poligal or Vulcano are some of the most worrying cases that we currently have on the table, examples of ungovernment and lack of industrial planning in this country. Named after the industrial fall recorded in Galicia, which, as mentioned here, has just corroborated the General Industrial Production Index at the National Institute of Statistics published today. According to this last data, production fell in Galicia by 0.1% compared to the same month of the previous year, which contrasts with the average increase of 2.9% recorded in the state as a whole. Of course, it's to worry. In this way, Galicia accumulates eight consecutive months of inter-annual falls, since the last positive data was registered in November 2018, so that the industrial production in Galicia decreases by 6.2% in the year, between January and July, which is the second largest downturn among all state communities, only surpassed by Baleares. On the other hand, the average state as a whole is 0.4% in this period. What is the German Government doing to prevent it? What are you doing to reverse this situation, to alleviate the tragedy of job losses and unemployment that involve industrial closures in this country? How long will Galicia be stubbornly turned into an industrial desert? Many cases about the table, and today we were talking about Alcoa's and the worrying announcement made last August by the direction of which is already the last plant of the American multinational in the state, after getting rid of the Coruña and the Avilés, of a new cut in production, which will account for the total decrease of 11.25% of its activity and the arrest of 32 of the 512 available electrolysis tanks; a reduction that justifies the need to decrease losses in a context of low price of aluminium and high cost of electricity in an surplus country. It must be borne in mind, of course, that the San Cibrao plant is the main economic motor of the Navy is shining and one of the most important to Galicia. It currently has 1,100 people employed directly and with 400 companies that depend on their livelihood. It's also the only facility that keeps the production of primary aluminium in the state. As is well known, the main problem facing the factory and that of many of the industry in this country is the high energy price, which in these cases accounts for up to 50% of its production costs. A repeated demand in this House, of course reiterated by the workers and workers of this country's electrointensive industry, and reiterated by different political forces in electoral campaign, but ignored over and over again when the competent administration has to take a step forward. And there is, of course, responsibility in the German Government, which, as I said, disregards all industrial policy and the defence of jobs. There is also, of course, responsibility in the Ministry of Industry, which should have passed the status of electro-intensive consumers for months, a real decree that today is only a draft, which has received numerous allegations and that the affected themselves has been qualified to be totally insufficient to guarantee the competitiveness of the electro-intensive industry in Spain against countries such as France or Germany. As a matter of fact, Alcoa had already warned of the danger of closing the San Cibrao plant, whenever the measures that had been put on the table by the Government to reduce the electrical costs of the industry were not enough; the opinion shared by both trade unions and employers in the sector. Mrs. Otero, we can't agree. Mr. Pedro Sánchez before being president-in-office was president. If he wanted to move forward with the electro-intensive status, he had time to do it, if it was one of his priorities. The excuse that he's president-in-office is not worth everything, it's going to be another reason for them to come to a coalition government. Of course, from here we have to add ourselves to the demands of the works committee so that the autonomous and state administrations demand that Alcoa cease in the cutting of aluminium production. We have to work to reduce the cost of energy that industry needs, but we also have to work to make governments control the continuity of the industries that receive aid. That the favourable conditions will be linked to continuity commitments, so we can only talk about the future in the Galician industry. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u285	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u286	Good morning, gentlemen. He's again talking about Alcoa in this House, sadly, because in just over a month and a half he'll be about a year from Alcoa's announcement of closure in Coruña and Avilés, and the underlying problem is unresolved. It was a matter of time for Alcoa's problems in Coruña and Avilés to join Alcoa's problems in San Cibrao, Spain's largest primary aluminium production plant. As we have repeatedly explained in this House - and Mrs Noa Presas has reminded us today - the origin of both conflicts is at the price of energy, which for these intensive industries accounts for 40% of their production costs. And not only are we talking about Alcoa, we're talking about Megasa, we're talking about Ferroatlantics, and we're talking about other small companies that are already beginning to suffer the consequences of high energy prices, which do not allow them to compete on equal terms with other European countries. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all deeply concerned that the jobs of 5,000 families that depend on the electrointensive industry of our community are at stake. Everyone, ladies and gentlemen, except for the socialists, because it seems to you that time has not passed, it seems that it has not been enough almost a year since the conflict began or almost nine months since they announced an electrointensive status. Mrs. Otero, I'm going to show you two photographs here, I'm from your Twitter, from the PSdeG Twitter, both of you are. Look, a photograph is April 1, 2019, and there's Mr. Secretary General, Mr. Caballero, and you, meeting with the company committee. [[Mr. Novoa Iglesias shows two photographs.]] The second photograph is this Monday, and they said, "Compromised with the workers. Today we were with the company committee of Alcoa San Cibrao, socialist priority - with Secretary Patricia Otero -." What's the difference between these two photographs, Your Honor? What is it? Five months of inaction, five months of empty commitments, Your Honor. And you're from the area. Too expensive you have to be there and not present any solutions. Look, at the first meeting, they must have told you there that Mr. Pedro Sánchez was... - Mr. President... - a few days earlier in a rally in the Coruña announcing that the Alcoa problem was solved; that the status would be approved and that the problem was solved. [[Murmurs.]] On the second date, on this Monday, they told these workers that you remain deeply committed to their future. But two days before the elections, on 26 April, they announced that the statute could not be passed; that it was a priority, but that it was a priority, ladies and gentlemen, for when there is government, that it cannot be approved in functions. Ah, the statute cannot be passed, but the real decrees that you yourself have just named here - these real decrees of all the Euromillion Fridays, those, the voters - can indeed be passed. Go away, Your Honor! It's just that he should fall in shame! [[Applause]] Look, I think, Mrs. Otero, that the Alcoa works committee should tell you by responsibility, and not by submission to Mr. Sánchez, who are really next to the Alcoa workers and will require that the statute be approved as soon as possible. But no, you go there, you have the face of taking pictures and still above you criticize the inaction of Junta, after nine months it takes to approve the status of the intensive industry. Look, Your Honor, the Alcoa workers are tired, and so they said, "We're full of good words, we want done." Tell him the company committee, Mrs. Otero. [[Mr. Novoa Iglesias shows a document.]] Look, above all, they say that the inaction is from the Board, when from the very first moment this group, the President of the Board of Galicia, met with the works committees and together with the President of the Principality of Asturias at that time we all made a common front to try to solve this problem. Don't say that this group didn't support that government, don't say so, Your Honor, it's missing the truth. You weren't here at that time, but I'll tell you. Look, you're inconsistent with Galicia's interests. He should be on the side of all the Greeks, asking for the approval of the electrointensive status now and not come here with an amendment, Your Honor, in which he changes a word: "Ask the Central Government" for "supporting the Central Government." But are you kidding me? Are you kidding? You have to demand that the electrointensive status be approved now, Your Honor! [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, they don't presume on Alcoa's sale solution, which knows it's for two years. And if you don't approve and you don't solve the energy price, Partner will again declare problems, and they know it; then they're already taking time. With the PP governments there were problems with Alcoa, but they were always solved; tell me when there was a problem similar to this...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u287	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u288	Please, Your Honor! And he's still here talking about the industrial inaction of Junta! Listen, problems in the Galician industry, the electro-intensive industry, Alcoa, Ence, the naval, the thermal closure, we want to load the automotive sector, we ban diesel cars and gasoline combustion cars... please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u289	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u290	Please! Please, ladies! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u291	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u292	Look, if they don't vote for this initiative...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u293	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u294	If you don't vote in favour of this initiative, Mrs. Presas...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u295	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u296	We will vote in favour of the initiative whenever it is held as such. That's our commitment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u297	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u298	If you do not vote in favour of this initiative, you will be portrayed as having your interests...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u299	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u300	...to serve Mr. Sánchez...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u301	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. Your time is up. Thank you. [[Applause]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u302	At the end of the day, I would like to make up for not to resume this part-session, since, instead of being in the German Parliament focusing on the problems that our industry has, we are already in the debate of the Socialist Party's argumentary against the argumentary of the People's Party and we are already in full electoral dynamics. I believe that some of us are still more alert than we are in another parliament than the issues we have to focus on. [[Applause]] Mrs. Novoa said a lot of things inside the argument. I'm glad you finally bring statements from company committees to read in this gallery - little by little something is going to shut up on this side of the bench -. And he said something that's true: that the workers of San Cibrao say that they're tired; because they're tired, like this country, of this pim pam pom constant, when we're talking about 2,000 direct jobs in the Navy they shine. We're talking about the economic engine of this part of our country, we're talking about one of the big industries, that few of us are left in this country and that few of us will stay at this stage between the role of the Central Government and that of the Galician Union. So I think we have to raise the level and depth of the debate a little bit, out of the rattles and the clashes that may exist in other areas. The truth is that there is to be a division, because the Spanish state's electrical system has designed it by the People's Party, Mrs. Novoa, is made in the People's Party! [[Applause]] In 1997 Mr. Aznar, in 2012... what's the matter, Mrs. Novoa? [[Applause]] [[Mr. Novoa Iglesias speaks words that are not perceived.]] Well, we're actually seeing it. You said it!: the problem is the price of energy. Welcome! Actually, the problem is the price of energy, and we don't have time to warn it, and we haven't brought specific issues here to reduce the price of energy. Because I'm no longer talking about the Greek electric tariff, in other matters that we've brought about on the beaches, to reduce them, you, by political sectarianism, also vote against it; by political sectarianism and because sometimes, by listening to them, it gives the impression that they really want it to go wrong to this country while there's someone else you're not in the central government to have another ariate. It's the feeling that sometimes you listen to them, gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Murmurs.]] We really appeal to have some responsibility, responsibility on the part of the Socialist Party, because we also understand that we've been waiting for many months for that status of electrointensives and that there's no excuse for those answers not to arrive and for us not to have an alternative on the table. And responsibility also on the part of the Galician Union because you have competition in industry -- we're bored and bored with debate -- and really the only industrial policy they know is to favour electricity and rely merely on deregulation, which has led us to that, to which the IPI is in free fall and industrial employment as well. Yesterday, in a newspaper in this country, a map of which was the most abundant job offer in this country, which is the hostel...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u303	On the amendments, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u304	...because industrial employment is in extinction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u305	On the amendments, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u306	We're not going to accept any of the two amendments because we understand...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u307	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u308	...that the basic proposal of the work table is already covered by ours, which was the one that was transferred to the business committee initially. So let's keep it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u309	Thank you. When we finish the debate on non-law proposals, we start with the votes. Close the doors, please. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u310	We begin by voting for the Socialist Party. The two amendments are accepted, the Joint Parliamentary Group and the Galician Nationalist Block, but as an addition. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the actions that must be carried out in Galician Junta in relation to the creation and design of measures for the improvement of primary care in the health system. The vote was taken and resulted in the following: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u311	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of the Left Joint Group. The amendment of the Joint Parliamentary Group is not accepted and the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is accepted as an addition. [[Mr. Sánchez García asks for the floor.]] Give a voice to Mr. Sánchez's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u312	We accept point 1 of the Socialist Party as an addendum.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u313	Just point one?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u314	Point one, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u315	Okay. Well, then, with that... [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Vilan? Give a voice to Mrs Vilan's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u316	We wanted to ask the proposed group for a point-by-point vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u317	Do you accept a point vote?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u318	The first three, on the one hand, and the room would be on the other.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u319	Do you accept that vote? [[Assentment.]] Well, let's vote, then, first of all, points 1, 2 and 3 of the non-law proposition. We vote. Vote of points 1, 2 and 3 of the proposed non-law G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of D. Antón Sánchez García and D. Marcos Cal Ogando, on the performances to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the works initiated in the Oribio greenhouse, supposedly for the construction of a wind farm in the municipalities of Samos and Triacastela. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 38; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. These points are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u320	Let us now vote on point 4 of this non-law proposal. We vote. Vote of point 4 of the proposed non-law of the G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of D. Antón Sánchez García and D. Marcos Cal Ogando, on the performances to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the works initiated in the Oribio greenhouse, supposedly for the construction of a wind farm in the municipalities of Samos and Triacastela. The vote was taken and resulted in the following: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected and, consequently, this proposal is not a law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u321	We now vote for the Group of the Left's Joint Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Ms Eva Solla Fernández. Amendments to the Joint Parliamentary Group and to the Galician Nationalist Block are accepted. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the allocation by the Government of Greece to Sergas of the economic resources necessary to negotiate at the sectoral table a work stability plan that allows public job offers to be convened. The vote was taken and resulted in the following: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u322	We now vote for the Joint Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Paula Vázquez Verao. There's a self-amendment, which, logically, if accepted. The People's Parliamentary Group has called for a point-by-point vote. There was also an amendment in voice — I think I remember —. In the debate you proposed. I don't know... they'd have to agree with the groups. Mrs. Vázquez Verao?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u323	Well, there's a transaction proposal that already includes that amendment in your voice. I'll get her to the House services. And if we allow voting by points. So they'd vote separately on the 4th and the 8th, and these two together. We'll make the deal now. But point 1 would be: "To draw up in 2020 a specific protocol for attention to older people..." etc., and end with the self-amendment of the proposed group itself.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u324	That's right. So, do you accept the voting by points, as you just read, and would you separate points 4 and 8?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u325	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u326	So we started voting on points 4 and 8. We vote. Voting of points 4 and 8 of the compromised text of the G. P. de En Marea Proposal, on the initiative of Da Paula Vázquez Verao and D. Luis Villares Naveira, on the preparation by the Board of Galicia, before the first quarter of 2020, of a specific protocol of attention to the elderly who live alone. The vote was taken and resulted in the following: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, these two points are rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u327	Let's vote for the rest of the points now. We vote. Voting the compromised text of the Non-Legal Proposal by G. P. de En Marea, except for points 4 and 8, at the initiative of Da Paula Vázquez Verao and D. Luis Villares Naveira, on the development by the Galician Council, before the first quarter of 2020, of a specific protocol of attention to the elderly who live alone. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 69. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u328	We now vote on the proposal from the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira. None of the amendments are accepted. [[Murmurs.]] Excuse me? Yeah? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Tellado, do you accept the point vote? Give a voice to Mr. Tellado's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u329	As the points are the agreements between the workers and the Galician Union, we understand that we must vote in full.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u330	You don't accept. We therefore vote on the proposal as it is. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. At the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángelado Filgueira and 14 other Members, on the action to be taken by the Council of Galicia to request the Government of the State to adopt several measures in the spirit of the energy transition to enable the maintenance of activity and employment linked to the thermal power plant of the Bridges. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 57; votes against, 12. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u331	We now vote on the proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Ms Maria de la Concepción Burgo López. The amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego is accepted. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Ma de la Concepción Burgo López and two other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Galician Union to improve the supply of master's studies in our university system, as well as on the aid to promote access to these studies on equal terms. The vote was taken and resulted in the following: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. That text was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u332	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr. Xosé Luís Bará Torres. Amendments by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and a point by the People's Parliamentary Group are accepted. [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Álvarez Martínez? What do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u333	We want to request a separate vote on point 1.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u334	Do you accept? [[Assentment.]] So we would vote, first of all, point 1 of this non-law proposal. [[Mr. Fernández Prado asks for the floor.]] Excuse me? Yeah? Tell me, Mr. Prado, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u335	Yes, which incorporated point 4 of the People's Party's proposal as an addendum. My amendment was a substitute for the whole set, it shouldn't be incorporated.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u336	He said, and had already manifested himself in the debate, that he accepted point 4 of his proposal. He accepted it as an addendum. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's what he said. You'll see what he decides. Well, there's no deal, but you asked for a separate vote on point 1. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's got nothing to do with the rest of it... and now what I'm putting to the vote is point number one. We vote. Voting of point 1 of the Proposal is not G.P.'s law. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the demands to be made by the Galician Union to the Central Government to recover the pending investments in infrastructure. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 38; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. Point 1 of this non-law proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u337	Let us vote on the remaining points of this proposal. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, except point 1, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the demands to be made by the Council of Galicia to the Central Government to recover the pending investments in infrastructure. The vote was taken and resulted in the following: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u338	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mrs Teresa Egerique. Groups amendments are not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Gonzalo Trenor López and 17 other Members, on the maintenance by the Galician Defence Board before UNESCO of a candidature for the declaration as the heritage of humanity of the entire current territory of the Galician National Park and which does not exclude the archipelagos of Ons and Salvora or the Cortegada Island. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; abstentions, 28. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u339	Finally, we voted for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas. Amendments to the mixed and socialist groups are not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the action to be taken by the Government of Galicia to activate the tanks, as well as on the maintenance of employment and industrial activity in the Alcoa factory in San Cibrao and the demands to be made by the Central Government to address the crisis of the electrointensive industry in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 69. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted. Agenda modification
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u340	Before suspending the full until 16.30, which is the time at which we will return, I would like to inform everyone who was asked by the Government for the approval of Question No 49605, which appears first, of Question No 52802, which is second, and of three questions, in particular Question No 54031, Question No 54848 and Question No 54851. Thank you. We suspended the session until 4.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u341	We resumed the meeting, with point five, interpellations. Interpellation by D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Da María de la Concepción Burgo López, from G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the forecasts of the Galician Council in relation to the continued improvement of the Greek education system
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u342	To make an inquiry, Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u343	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Let's hope that the inherent murmuring or massive assistance at this moment in full does not interrupt my first intervention or any of yours. I know perfectly the content of the interpellation that is formulated to you — it is recorded at your own time — but I understand that you will understand perfectly that this first part of my interpellation refers to the incidences that are taking place in this course and that I suppose you know perfectly, and therefore you will not have any drawback to reply to me, although — I insist — I know you are not included in the interpellation. The students at the CEIP Canyon Cruise, by Ferrol, don't attend school for the state of the classroom. The family assembly decided on Tuesday, that is, yesterday, not to send their children to the educational center. They ensure that classes are dirty and that until Tuesday the teachers were unable to access them. The schoolchildren will not go to the center until next Monday 16. In the case of deer and in the case of Foz the same thing happens, but even more seriously. At the Cervo CEIP, there are drops, doors not put, the elevator is not covered, the classrooms are not painted, there are cables hanging, there's dust everywhere, the workers are working, and the parents have decided that these conditions would not send their children to their school post. The fact is that the Education Council, making an alarm of information transparency, yesterday prevented a photographer from accessing the centre to see what the real state of execution of the works was. And at CEIP 1 in Foz, most families today chose not to send their children to class. At the school in Casas, where you were yesterday, the course starts with half gas, and in the case of CEIP Santa Maria, of the Foundry, classes are not started and students will receive classes as they can in school. Well it's true that in the case of the Foundry the school and the institute are caught, but it's also true that it seems to us that it's a rather picturesque solution, especially when a few days ago the Education Council itself told the ANPA that students could not be transferred to the institute in the face of evidence of the situation where the works were and that no lessons could be started. The fact is, faithful to the Salvadoran recommendation, which for the People's Party yesterday was not possible today is the solution. The delegate of the Galician Union in Lugo, Mr. José Manuel Balsairo, literally said: "Except the nerves of the newlywed schoolchildren and the continuity of the works in the integral reform of some center, there were no outstanding incidences." This of the student's own nerves is very paternal, even understandable, if anyone falls to the image of a 3-year-old child crying on his first day of class. But it turns out more worrisome, more than nothing because the other is certainly something almost normal in all the beginnings of the course, the state in which the works are found. And this could happen to be part of the anecdotal of the beginning of the course if it wasn't your usual -- and when I talk about your not speaking of you in particular -- propensity to that kind of chronicity of an early success, because you yourself stated yesterday that the start of the classes won't be delayed at any school in which there are still schools where works of improvement whose execution has begun to take place during the summer, and that in no case would those works interfere with the ordinary activity of the schools. If these are not interference in the usual development of the course and if this is not significant incidence, I would like to know that it is an outstanding incidence, especially when last week, in the 4th Committee on Education and Culture, a question was answered by the People's Party's Autobus on Works in Educational Centers and the Secretary-General has paid attention to the state of execution of them and also said that in some cases they would be delayed — look at the explanation! — either late in the municipal licenses — if I understand that it was not given in Cervo, more than nothing by the coincidence of the People's Party at the mayoral and government of the Galician Union — either because of the lack of aluminum or because August is a complicated month to have the necessary supply. Man!, I think these are not surviving realities; that August is a complicated month already must have been. And the truth is, and what shows that you are not very satisfied with this course start, is that your own website, in a half-hour screenshot, does not make the slightest reference to the normality of the course start, proves more obvious that that normality does not exist. [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez shows a document.]] So I'd like to know what valuation you make of this situation and this course start. But, by going to the interpellation in particular, we are in the last course in which this government will have the responsibility to manage the Greek education system. Over the past three years, this parliamentary group has presented many initiatives, which have been systematically rejected, and under a supposed argument of coherence and good governance, what they hide are true ideological decisions. You refused to recover the free textbook program, when you know it's the most just and economically more efficient model, much more than solidarity freeness and any other preterit loan system that you had to fix when you realized it was spent more than with the universal free program. A non-legislative proposal was rejected in December 2016. They refused to prohibit the distribution in the centres of the autonomous community, both public and private, of any publication that had called into question the equality of persons. We are, of course, talking about that terrible episode of Hazte hearing spreading some propaganda by the educational centres or trying to share it. That we know that in some center they did achieve that purpose. You rejected a proposal by commission in January 2017 under the argument that the centres had the ability to limit that distribution, as if it were something — say, the power of the centers to decide whether such advertising is housed in an educational center in our autonomous community. You have refused to agree with the educational community on the educational supply and the network of centres. You have systematically refused to evaluate with known criteria programs of both experimentation and educational innovation, which, as you know perfectly well, are different things; for example, in improving the language competence of students or in evaluating the I Plan of Action for Equality in Educational Centers. You precarried the working conditions of the Greek teachers and refused, for example, to enter into the student's account what you repeat, as if it were air and it had to be the object of special attention. You have also refused to recover the hours of the non-university professor, this last four months in this Parliament, to put back the schedules as they were before the entry into force of the orders of July 23, 2011 and July 4, 2012. You have reduced the professor from 2008 to 2018 by a thousand and four hundred non-university teachers. These four hundred thousand seem to be a magic number of this whole, more than anything by the almost coincidence of the one thousand five hundred million euros of state debt with Galicia and of the one thousand five hundred million euros that the Galician Union has without performing works that contained in a magnificent plan that stood extraordinarily well on paper. You continue with plans that know they're failing, without recognizing reality and refusing to evaluate them after course. You have this Star PluriFP program, which regulates the implementation and development of the first multilingual formative cycles. It turns out that in 2017-2018 12 cycles were authorized, in 7 different centers. In 2018-2019 35 were authorized in 21 centers, and for this course there are 44, in 23 centers. The painting is that there are certain coincidences, because, for example, of the 44 cycles that will be authorized for this course 17 are new; that is, it is a real failure. You have implemented the program of introduction to primary educational robotics, which could not be implemented as a free center configuration material. This program, so sold in this Parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u344	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u345	...it looks like it's not a success, because it turns out that for the next course they only offer 25 new centers when they came to offer 120 in the previous two courses and the previous one, 120, they only selected 50 new ones; that is, they stayed more than 60% of the open squares. So, Counsellor, I ask you, what evaluation does your Counsellor do about the possibility of evaluating and publishing the results of the various programs that it has set in motion throughout this legislation? What fundamental objectives and lines do you plan to start in the short term to improve the equity of the education system and whether you intend to deepen or even start constructive dialogues with the various actors interested in the education system for the improvement of the education system in Galicia? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u346	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Response from the Education, University and Vocational Training Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u347	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Mr. Álvarez, we started a new political course, this is the first full-time session, and today also officially began the school year 2019-2020. And once again, like everything else, you ask for works and then you criticize the works. Indeed, it was a summer of works, some of which is not yet finished, which the corresponding educational communities knew from the beginning, were informed by territorial heads and technical units. I myself have been going through those centers and checking first-hand as the state of the works was. I have to say that today they have opened their 773 centers throughout Galicia, of child and primary education and special education, with two incidences, that is, about 0.2%, one in the Foundry and the other in the Brain. I also have to say that the photos of Cervo sent to the press didn't match the photos of the state of the classroom today. I have to say that there are also videos from some center that were last week that were sent to the press and hung up on social networks that weren't in class today. I have to say that in the Fonsgrada, in fact, by a topic of currents in the windows, even though the classes were in state to start the classes, it was considered more appropriate to change the boys to the secondary annex center. I have to say that this very afternoon, about three and a half o'clock, I called the director of the center of Casas, in Lugo, who told me that everything was all right, that the classes were clean, that they were ready. And, in fact, I told her that some information told her that there was only one operating bathroom all over the school for teachers and students and she recognized me that this was fake and that there were more operating bathrooms. In any case, 50 works, 44 million euros, 22 works of integral realization auctioned on May 10 and assisted in a record time, July 4th. In any case — I insist — if we want to criticize the works, we criticize the works. And we're going to what we're interested in, which is the evaluation that has been made since the Board of Directors of the education system. You try to hold a general debate today about education, in an attempt — I insist — to take the political initiative in the defence and improvement of Greek education, but it's late. And it's late and it looks like a little lucky attempt for three reasons. First of all, because socialists have been installed in the inaction in the months of their mandate in the Central Government, not talking to the autonomous communities, announcing that they will take measures that later do not, for example, make that change of the stock exchange system. Secondly, because after the election results they are in total paralysis, shielded in the Government's argument in functions -- actually, how did their lordships get to the House, because there are whispers, i.e., that they missed them and now we have them -- not to comply with, as I said, with the autonomous communities and now announcing a supposed programme of progressive measures without real commitments that do not convince their potential partners. [[Murmurs.]] And third, because I myself, at the last ordinary of June, came up with my own request, to analyze and evaluate the situation of university education in Galicia at the end of the 2018-2019 course, and, as an advance, I also explained the Council's work to prepare the 2019-2020 course. Too often since the opposition they confuse the need for educational policies — and I said it earlier — by politicizing education. This confusion is not uninterested, for it responds to a pursuit of discrediting the Council's work, almost always without foundation and without support. It turns out that in recent years, according to the Socialist Group, the Education Council has made genuine ideological decisions and continues with plans which it knows failed, without recognizing reality and denying course after course to evaluate them. Mr. Álvarez, this puts you in your explanatory statement, writing, and you stay calm. Who is the one who denies reality? Won't it be your group? They have denied the need for assessments on the education system provided for in LOMCE, solely by ideology, and now they argue that there must be an evaluation. We evaluated the situation of dropout in Galicia, a subject that in July was of interest to you. Galicia registered in 2018 the lowest annual average rate of early educational dropout since the availability of registers, 14.3%, which is down by 0.6 points compared to the annual average of 2017. We must also remember that the average educational dropout rate in Galicia in 2009 was 25.8%, so it has been reduced by more than 11 points. This shows that the educational policies developed since 2009 are working, to achieve one of the main objectives of any educational system: that no one abandons without finishing second-stage secondary education and without corresponding titration. I myself attended the opening of the course this morning at the CPI Terras de Maside, which reduced school dropout from 60% to 4%. This average 2018 rate of 14.3% is expected to meet a target set for Spain by the European Union by 2020, set at 15%. Let's continue with the evaluation. How is the trend of early educational abandonment in 2019? Today we only know the two-quarters of this year's data, so the first percentage was 12.8%, and the second, 12.2%. And, as you know about mathematics, it will agree that the data points to the right direction. Is this the result of a single budget match or of all the Council's efforts in resources and educational policies? Mr. Álvarez, this is the fruit of the global work, of decision-making, of adaptation to the constant educational changes that confronts for each course the Welsh Educational Administration, and of the different plans put in place and of the set of investments that result in the improvement of education. The decrease in the dropout rate is related to the momentum of vocational training, to the start-up of the basic FP as an alternative to system abandonment, or to reinforcement and support initiatives such as programme contracts, of which at this center in Maside they had seven lines, i.e. all lines of program contracts. The Greek education system is, in addition, more attractive today, with a strategy of plurilingualism itself, as well as a strategy around ICT and digital, which frames actions to promote the most ambitious STEM competences across the state. By addressing a more specific issue, when you analyze and qualify a Council program and the result is positive, you discredit the result or simply don't consider it. An example: the constant appeal you refer to and now made reference to recovering a total free model from textbooks. Now we can talk about the previous model. It wasn't 100% free, because the families had to buy books and they had to pay for photocopies. As a matter of fact, it was a system with a management questioned by bookstores and educational communities, to the point that to speed up their operation they ended up hiring a private company. In these years, however, the Council has been creating a system that combines the assistance to families who need it most, the solidarity fund of textbooks, and the support of digital content in E-Dixgal. But you persist in claiming that it doesn't work, and being recognized by the Ombudsman — and I say Ombudsman because I'm talking about the state —. They also ask for a more co-educational teaching, but they ignore all the steps taken with the I Plan of Equalization in educational institutions, although they have been accountable on repeated occasions in this House. For you, if you don't hear what you want to hear, it turns out there's no evaluation, as the Government explains that we are facing a progressive implementation plan and what we need to consider quantitative and qualitative issues. On the other hand, reports such as PISA indicate that Galicia is Spain's most equitable educational system, but it's also the most inclusive of all Spain; 92.4% of students with special educational needs are integrated into regular centres. One more course, the Council fulfills its obligation to plan, regulate and administer regular education throughout its scope, levels, degrees, modalities and specialties. But socialists demand the consensus redefinition of the centre map. Mr. Álvarez, what consensus does the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party offer? Does the consensus that Pedro Sánchez offers by presenting in an electoral act a supposed joint progressive program? What took the work in Congress and the Senate to land for an education pact? The education policies of the Galician Union are known and offer stability to the system, and have been explained in this House at the appearance of January action lines and ratified at the June appearance. Galicia has a defined and differentiated university educational model, which advances and has projects. They can recognize reality or not, they can repeat serial criticisms, but in this government we believe that the Welsh educational model can serve as an example, and so we will defend it before the state. [[Applause]] We are still waiting for a clear interlocutor in the Ministry to ask for a meeting at which the Union will defend the interests of teaching and of Greek universities, from loyalty and from general interest. Galicia can work for the better of her teaching. We're doing it even though we don't have the help of a central government lacking ideas and that only provides instability to the whole educational system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u348	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u349	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, I ask you, if the state of the works was known to the educational community and there would be no kind of impact, how do you explain those that I related to you at the beginning of my first intervention? They're not incidences. Are you going to say that Cervo's parents are not an accident, or are they all voters of the perverse left, whose only goal is to squander an efficient government like yours? Did you have an announcement of a visit to Carral school, which you suspended because Carral was the upper leg school? They were waiting for her, they had the grills purchased, like "Welcome, Mister Marshall," and it turns out you didn't show up. [[Applause]] Why didn't he show up, if the educational community knew all about reality and knew there was no problem there? Or was there? Look, you say we're late. I honestly think we've arrived before time, because maybe, inside, I don't know if a full, two or three, you'll come to the audience in which you'll evaluate the start of the course and present your initiatives, and therefore this interpellation I think comes before time. You go to the common place to talk about the inefficiency of a government in functions, and the only example you can quote is that of the scholarships. Isn't the call for -- pardon for redundancy -- scholarships for the next course? Isn't it published? It's not working? Or are the Central Government, Mr Sánchez and Mrs Celá responsible for the problems facing the education system in Galicia, which has full competence for the management of its education system? Whose responsibility is it? Is it the responsibility of the reviewer or is it the driver? It's just that this, frankly, is the world backwards. And you tell me we don't talk about educational policies. Look, I can understand that someone who isn't a professional in the world of education, like you, doesn't know how to distinguish between what is an educational policy and what isn't, but you don't. You know the perfection that everything that appears in our inquiry refers to educational policies, not works, not scholarships, which would also be part of an educational policy. No, no. It refers to all the initiatives that you have systematically blocked in this Parliament, because obviously all opposition groups have not only the right but the obligation to make proposals according to what they consider ideologically and politically to improve the system, from their point of view, not from the point of view of the People's Party. But look, it seems like it's a lie that I have to tell you this, but in order to govern, you don't just have to manage, you have to know how to receive criticism, you also have to know how to distinguish what a trivial criticism is from what a real bottom line proposal is, like all these I've told you before. Or is it not a substantive proposal to prevent it from being distributed in educational centres, with instruction from the Council, propaganda that questions the rights of those people who freely choose a certain sexual orientation? At this point in the 21st century we have to allow the centres to make that decision? No, there are things the Administration, the government has to limit, and you didn't want to limit it, and that's how it goes. [[Applause]] Or is it not an educational policy that evaluates — and has been denied twice — the I Action Plan for Equality in Galicia's educational centres? You're a teaching professional, you know that you have to evaluate processes and programs when they're being implemented, what's called implementation evaluation -- you're tired of repeating it in my interventions -- and you're systematically denied it. That's right, we're going to evaluate it at the end, and if it didn't work, as we had no data on what was going on in the middle -- the famous theory of the black box that is studied in political science, that things come in, they go out, but we don't know what's going on in the middle or what's going on -- we'll see it later. That's not an educational policy. Precarating the working conditions of the German teachers is not an educational policy. That repeater students include, that the teacher has limited the number of subjects he's imparting to improve the quality of teaching for students, is not an educational policy. Counselor, really, I can understand that the opposition's appeals are disturbing. What you have to begin to understand is that we make use of legitimate right — I insist — and we have to question the action of the Government, which for that we are the opposition. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u350	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Closure of the interpellation, adviser of Education, University and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u351	Thank you, President. Mr. Álvarez, I told you that Cervo's works were ready this morning, and we have photos that believe it. I don't know, nor am I able to know what the families of the ANPA of Cervo are voting for, but in any case, the classes were ready to go in. I myself have a school in works in my neighborhood, Queen Fabiola, yesterday I was there, I have neighborhood that takes their children and children to that center, they ate in the center, and I have information that the classes were ready and the dining room also in perfect health conditions. We communicate with the press by press notes and we don't have a website in the Education Council. I leave it to you because the press release was talking about how the course began. No, there's a social network, but not a web page. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Álvarez, however, you have the nerve to come here to talk about educational achievements and that the income of the Joint Account, when your acting president broke that education pact offered by the Rajoy Government, on the basis that 5% of GDP was not reached in education expenditure, when in his program offered to the United Nations-We - page 20 - promises to reach 5% of GDP in the year 2025. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] I mean, this is the stability with which you have ideas about education. Indeed, educational policies. It turns out from minute zero, socialists have been criticizing all of the educational policies that have been in place since June. We have many examples of how projects first disqualify but then they demand more and even try to appropriate themselves, given the case of works: we ask for works, we don't want works or what happens to the works? The Education Council was affixed by the real integration of ICTs in Greek education; they criticized it and criticized it again when we improved the wager with the E-Dixgal strategy. Joint Progressive Programme, proposal No. 100: "Education and training. Educational institutions and their actors will be actively included in the digitalization agenda that will be promoted by the Government. For this we are going to develop in the coming years an ambitious and four-component digitalisation strategy in education and vocational training." Another example. The Board understood for years that it was necessary to adapt FP to Galicia's socio-productive system and that dual FP was an opportunity for improvement. The socialists criticized him once and for a thousand times, they rejected the reinforcement bet from the network of integrated FP centers promoted by the Council. Joint Progressive Programme, Proposal No. 102: "We will push for a new FP Management Act that includes a specific regulation of the dual FP and incorporate in all types a mode of digitization." Proposal 103: "We will increase, in cooperation with the autonomous communities, the supply of FP to better address the connection with society, strengthening the role of national reference centres in FP as innovation generators." His incongruence and his desire to discredit the Council's work causes damage and damage to teaching. Today we've had more evidence of how it confuses the need to make educational policies by politicizing education. We're talking about the professor, because on this, there are also constant unfair disqualifications to the policies of the Education Council. In times of crisis, we had to ask the professor for an effort, but it is also true that this government is committed to a stable framework of teachers, to the job stability of teachers, to the wage improvements and to the continuing training of teachers, since it seems that the news sent to us by the Socialist Government will have to be expected from the beginning. Look, Mr. Álvarez, here's a cut from the Atlantic on September 9, 2008, whose headline is: "I understand. CIG-Ensino calls for administrative in schools, prevention of school failure and better salaries for teachers." Evaluation. The Galician board, the Education Council, where I am currently in office, has won administrative posts in schools, has predicted school failure and has achieved better salaries for teachers. We've got a way along, but we're still engaged and we're facing new targets and new challenges. We are aware that Galicia, by maintaining and enhancing what works, must update its educational and university model also for citizens of the 21st century. We respect the legitimate discrepancies that you are talking about and understand the content of parliamentary appeals, but we appeal — I insist — to abandon this tendency to confuse the need for educational policies with politicizing education. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u352	Thank you, Counselor. [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Álvarez Martínez, what do you want the word for? Give your voice to the scene.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u353	President, by Rule 76, because of the inaccuracy in the statements made by the Counsellor, who has just said that the Education Council has no website, denying what I have correctly stated. This is a... [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez shows a document.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u354	Well, that could be a...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u355	No, sorry, it's a screenshot...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u356	But it can be a...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u357	Sorry, it's a screenshot of your website...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u358	It's a minor interpretation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u359	...in which, by the way, you are a councilman of education and minister...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u360	It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u361	Make them fix it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u362	Mr. Álvarez Martínez, that's it, that's it!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u363	It's a problem with the...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u364	Mr. Álvarez Martínez, I mistake that myself. Computers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u365	No, for evil confused, misconceptioned, because the website...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u366	It has no greater transcendence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u367	...yes, there is and does advertising or information about your visits to the centers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u368	That's it!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u369	It's just an inaccuracy that I think must be corrected...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u370	That's it!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u371	...from this House. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u372	You ask the Government, seventh point. Question from Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the evaluation of the current institutional relationship between the Galician Union and the Council of Ourense
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u373	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u374	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon. Mr. Rueda, "as an orensan and as President of Galicia I think it would be lethal for Ourense to have a mayor like Jacome, a hysterical person, unlike an open and cordial city. Unfortunately outside they start to know us for that, and this worries us, because it gives us a bad picture." These are not my statements, these are statements by the president of the Galician Council in an interview with the newspaper La Region on May 16. Well, he also said, "I want Ourense"; it was another literal phrase. The PSOE — as you know, ladies and gentlemen — won the elections in the city, the People's Party no longer ruled in the only seven cities in which until now he had that mayorship, but agreed with Democracy Ourensa and gave the mayorship to that person who was "lethal" to Mr. Jácome. Because that love of President Feijóo to Ourense is a toxic love, an interested love, of which you only remember in the election campaign or when you are preparing the autonomy to match your accounts so that Mr. Jacome does not present himself to the autonomous elections and to keep Mr. Baltar in the House of Ourense. [[Applause]] It's all about selling the city to buy votes, Mr. Rueda. It's about killing the city, Mr. Rueda, as the president of the Union himself said, to survive or try to survive you. During this summer we spent real shame, Mr. Rueda, the oransansans and the orensas, with a media circus on all the desserts of state television channels, where we didn't speak of Ourense as a reference of thermalism, as a reference to land of great writers and writers, of fashion as well — that we are too — but to entertain and provoke laughter and ridicule about our city. Shame that the militants of the People's Party are also going through, that they don't understand how those who declared war turn out to be professing eternal love. The day passed the romary, and it turns out that this week the chairman of the Galician board in another newspaper, La Voz de Galicia, said, when asked by the government of Ourense, that things go normally; that is, to be "potentially mortal" — which is the definition of lethal — to "the things normally." Because the normal thing is to insult city officials, firefighters, local police, who reduce contributions to trade, who move or suppress the main cultural cycles of the city of Ourense, who do not respect democratic standards, and that Ourense's own mayor says that the motions are not binding and that they will not make any case to him — because it is a word that cannot be said in this House. [[Murmurs.]] How is this institutional relationship right now, Mr. Rueda? What projects did the president of Galician Union speak of with the mayor of Ourense? [[Murmurs.]] Do you still think the mayor of Ourense is potentially...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u375	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u376	...mortal to the city?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u377	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u378	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u379	Thank you. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u380	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Blanco, your question is exactly: how do you value the institutional relationship that exists today between the Galician Union and the Council of Ourense? That's the question, isn't it? For the answer is very clear — you, by the way, did not really care. I think it confuses a little — I'm sorry to say — the plenary session of Parliament with a plenary session of the Council of Ourenses. There are things to... to consider in the middle of the Council of Ourense... If you don't like what the government is doing. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] But I come to think of the Government of Galicia, and the Government of Galicia, what you have to do is answer to the question you make in writing, which you have not done here; you have forgotten it completely. But I want to answer it: we positively value the institutional relationship that we have with all the municipalities in Galicia, with all those who want to have a good institutional relationship, which are all those who don't think they have a bad institutional relationship, that they are facing all day long, gives them some kind of electoral receipt. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] I mean, they're all but one. So, in that all but one is included also the Council of Ourense, and many municipalities of all political colors, and we aspire to keep it that way, because that's what people expect. I think it perfectly sums up the other day the mayor of Pontevedra, with which you rule in coalition and whatever they support. He said, on the occasion of a visit to the president of the Union, Alberto Núñez Feijóo, that he was very pleased that he had come to the city of Pontevedra and hoped that he would continue to come this year and in the years that followed. That's the good institutional relationship that I think must have, normally. [[Applause]] I suppose this won't bother you, I suppose you'll agree that the duty of an autonomic officer and the duty of all municipal rulers is to get along well with each other, above political differences, above possible approaches, which can be posed during the election campaign. But then things will have to be achieved and there are many things that can only be achieved in common. And so we're going to go on like this. Another thing, Mrs. Blanco, is that it bothers you not to be ruling in Ourense, with Mr. Jacome, who tried it, by active or passive. What's the matter is they weren't able to. [[Murmurs.]] And, as they have not been able, now what it is to confuse what is a municipal plenary with a plenary of Parliament, but this plenary of Parliament is not a municipal plenary, or much less Ourense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u381	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u382	Thank you very much, President. You, Mr. Rueda, and your Government have so much respect for Ourense that it turns out that when we ask about the city — and it's not the first time that happens — you answer me with Pontevedra. So I ask you to talk about what's going on in Ourense. And I ask you to say that you consider yourself to be positively appreciated by a government that is undergoing very hard blows to cultural life, a government that insults public employees, that lacks respect for firefighters, who you know perfectly, for the areas that this government is carrying... [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] I'd like to, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u383	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u384	Thank you. And I want to ask you: I don't know if it's about getting things for Ourense to find out about a police mafia, if you think there's a mafia in the Ourense Local Police, as you just assured the mayor of Ourense this morning. You, at the bottom, are ashamed, Mr. Rueda. That's why they took more than forty seconds to answer this question, because it has absolutely nothing positive. Because where are all Ourense projects? Where is the residence of the care center for people with disabilities? Where is the oldest residence, the spa hotel, the health centres, the extension of the hospital — late, with that private parking that has just started —, hemodynamics, pediatric surgery twenty-four hours, that reduction in the kitchen staff, the water park tobogans — that you promised in full wave of fires of the 2016 autonomic selections—? Not even that. I don't know if they talked about it to the mayor of Ourense. And I repeat the question: how is that relationship? Is that relationship positive? What council do you mean when you speak...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u385	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u386	...of all but one, Mr. Rueda? Is it positive and can be positive the relationship with a mayor who is — as the President of Galicia said — with deadly blows to a city? And he said it, it's not PSdEG's words. You're the one who preferred to choose between the death of the city and the survival of you; they try to survive at all costs. That's the real answer, with an institutional relationship...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u387	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u388	...that, for now, arrest, it shouldn't be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u389	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u390	...what they have right now. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u391	Thank you. Close the question, Mr Vice-President and President-in-Office of the Council, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u392	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Blanco, you said I had 30 seconds left in the previous one. When there are no arguments, it is believed that your firmness is to waste time always repeating the same thing, which is what happens to you. But it's not like that at all. [[Murmurs.]] Well, I won't disqualify what you're doing to me right now from there, because I have arguments, though you don't waste time. Look, respect, huh! If you think you speak well of Pontevedra and even speak well of the mayor of Pontevedra, because he was right what he said and he was sincere, it is to miss Ourense, you miss about Ourense and Pontevedra with those things he's saying. It's clear, uh, it's clear. [[Applause]] Therefore, one respect to the citizens of Pontevedra, one respect to the citizens of Ourense, who deserve other arguments. I insist that you tried to be active and passive—hey!, even recognised—to rule with Mr Jacome and they were unable. What's wrong? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's right. Well, I'm asking...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u393	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u394	What's the matter? But don't you realize that you yourself... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u395	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u396	...using my time—that I'm early, because I almost prefer you to speak to lose all the strength of your arguments—do you contradict yourself? Do you realize that they're trying and they can't, and that other people can't do that? Do you realize, Mrs Blanco, that it is important to get along with all the municipal representatives, which is a duty of the Galician Union and its president? Do you realize that the president of Galicia's board has — and it's been less than three months or three months since the municipal elections — already meetings with rulers of all political colors and always on an institutional link to get things done? Do you realize that this is what people want and people don't want to come, as if they're coming to Parliament, trying to transfer debates that they've already lost in cities, how is Ourense? This is what people want, Mrs. Noela. You know? What bothers you, what you can't understand is why they don't rule in Ourense. By the way, I like the argument on the most voted list. We've told him many times that we've always bought it. If you think they don't rule in Ourense and they had to, because I'm the most voted list, I tell you that in more than a hundred municipalities the People's Party government had to be ruling... and it's not ruling for that. [[Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] So -- I'll tell you again -- another contradiction. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Do you know what I think, Mrs. Blanco?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u397	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u398	That at the bottom, speaking of Ourense, he doesn't talk about other things. You have right now in Cerceda a convicted mayor—condemned!—and look elsewhere. They don't know what to do anymore. And he's still ruling and looking somewhere else. Which way? For Ourense. But this is Parliament, it's not Ourense. And I'm running out of time, but if you think that's a weakness of arguments, I'm all the way to the end. [[Murmurs.]] But, as I think I told you what to say, Mr. President, I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u399	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u400	Thank you, Vice President. Question by Da Paula Prado del Río and six other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, about the main benefits that the Galician Union wants to achieve for public officials and the Galician society in general through the comprehensive reform of the administrative building of San Caetano
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u401	You have the floor to Mrs. Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u402	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Vice-President, this summer we witnessed an unprecedented disgrace in the state government in Spain. There is no precedent, Mr. Vice-President, that a government of the state denies autonomous communities surrenders to the IRPF account and the advance of the IVE. There is no precedent for the Minister of Handicrafts to be shielded from a non-existent state attorney's report that was subsequently made ad hoc. There is no precedent, Mr Vice-President, for autonomous communities to be asphyxiated economically by the Government of the State and to be forced to make cuts and adjustments in their budgets. And, as there is no precedent, all autonomous communities of different political colors, affected by economic asphyxiation, demanded this money from the Socialist Government of President Pedro Sánchez. Not only Galicia, Andalusia or Castile-Leon claim the money the central government owes them, but also the socialist presidents of Valencia and Balearics, Joan Baldoví and even the independent government of Catalonia. And how much does Pedro Sánchez owe to Galicia? Well, 700 million euros. Last week a socialist Member boasted that the first transparency law in Galicia had been passed by the socialists, by Mr Touriño. And Mr. Touriño also said, in the last days of his term, that he was a very transparent government, right? Transparency, ladies and gentlemen, they did not show when they were required by the People's Party to say the cost of remodeling works of Mr. Tourin's office, the presidential offices and even the presidential car. And the same Government of PSOE and BNG, the Bipartite, didn't show the procurement file transparently, and the billings of expenditure appearing in the contract form "secret contracts for security reasons." And what were the security reasons? Well, no less than allowing the Bipartite to make opaque some expenses as high as 480,000 euros for the presidential vehicle... It was the price of a car, not the Government's fleet, of a single car! And they also appealed for security reasons to prevent the opposition from accessing the record of the president's office reform works and three joint rooms. [[Murmurs.]] We don't know if he also changed the presidential mattress, following the socialist tradition. What was transparent, Mr. Vice-President, was the glass of the board room, which seems to have cost €180,000 so that the Socialist and nationalistic councillors would not be disillusioned. Then there were no cost problems, we played in the league champions of the economy, and the word crisis didn't exist. Faced with this obscurantism, we have seen, Mr Vice-President, that the Government of the People's Party does not conceal the budgetary departure for the San Caetano reform works. There was public exhibition, there was a concrete budget match known to all, a public contest and even moved, through a press round, the works that were to be done in San Caetano. [[Murmurs.]] But since it still doesn't seem clear, because they raised a curtain of smoke to cover that money that Pedro Sanchez owes us, we'd like to know...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u403	Thank you, Mrs. Prado, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u404	...Mr. Rueda, tell us all the Members...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u405	Thank you. There's the question in writing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u406	...what are these reforms, what are they going to consist of, and what is the objective...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u407	Yes, comprehensive reform of San Caetano. You know the question. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u408	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, Mrs Prado, it is at least curious that, throughout the summer, when you've been talking -- we always said, we started in Galicia and then we're going to the rest of the autonomous communities -- as the governments were conforming and realizing the very serious problem they were going to have if the Government didn't give us the money that Galicia and the rest of the autonomous communities, the Socialist Party -- and Mr Caballero especially -- didn't open its mouth, and sometimes just open it to defend, leaving only -- it was left alone in it too --. He didn't open his mouth in front of that blackmail, and suddenly he got up in anger when he found out that the Galician Board, with complete transparency, explained absolutely everything that had to be done, what was wanted to be done and what was intended to be done in a press round. As you remembered, in a lot of explanations we give and we'll give what we wanted to do to improve the working conditions of officials and officials, not of the high offices, of the people who attend San Caetano every day. It's also funny that they think this is going to be possible even if we don't get the 700 million. Public services know that they won't be able to do it, and instead, that doesn't give them any trouble, but that this 30 million-euro work does make them angry. Well, you have to tell them everything comes out of it. I don't know where you think Mr. Caballero and the Socialist Party are coming out of the money that uses Galician Union as public resources. Everybody gets out of it. Therefore, all the actions of the Galician Union are threatened by these 700 million, both these works that are intended to be done in three years - and now I will explain it between this and the second intervention - as well as the fundamental public services. One thing matters to them very much, and fundamental public services give them exactly the same. For I say that everything is important and that everything has to explain it and, of course, this work too. We've already said it, we've explained it and received, in addition, the general feeling about how the works were done in a building that had workers inside and out of its final result. We have already explained what we intend to do in a building that will accomplish within a few hundred years of existence, which had already defects from the beginning, which were made much more structural as time advanced for logical reasons, which had a much greater reform in the 1980s and in which even now it was essential to act on the outside and on the inside. First on the outside, which was where we acted, with an investment that I think is from around the world to see the change, before and after, because I think that the building remained, from an aesthetic point of view -- I think it's also important, it's the house of the Government of all the Greeks and Greeks -- very well, but above all, we have to think that the covers have been changed, that the thermal insulatings have changed and that the lighting has changed. And that has resulted in the benefit of the working conditions of many officials and of the people who attend there. That -- we did it and we explained it -- it's a expense, in the end, for all the people who work in San Caetano and for the people who use public services. And now we want to do the second part, and we'll explain it too. It's no sum expenditure, it's no expense that wasn't necessary to do and, of course, it's no expense that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u409	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u410	...you can't do it, just like you can't do the provision of public services...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u411	Vice President, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u412	...if we don't get the 700 million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u413	Replica, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u414	Thank you very much, Vice President. In fact, from what we see, this reform will benefit public officials; logically, public employees who rise to a figure, as we read in the press and you just said, of 2,000 workers, and not 50, as the Bipartite said affected that reform of the year 2008. A reform that will result in an energy saving, a reform that you just said has improved the aesthetics of the building, anyone can see. As I compose it, I'd rather, logically, see that joint building than that one of a little bit higher, that failed building that takes one and a half million euros invested for what was to be the fire department and the local police in Santiago; a great investment of the compostal bipartite. They probably like that building in Salgueirinos more than a little below, the great building in San Caetano; by the way, much improved with that reform. That's what they're doing in town, and so we're proud of it. I would also like, Mr Vice-President, to tell us whether, indeed, in those money, the child's school for public employees will be included. Because, of course, the Socialist Party filled its mouths this summer by criticizing this reform and here in Parliament, they brought initiatives to increase the squares of children's schools in public employees' workplaces, and they took concrete steps: from San Caetano and San Lázaro. This shows that they are not concerned with conciliation, that the only thing that concerns the Socialist Party, the Galician Nationalist Block, the Left in Common, the Left Communes and the whole opposition is posture, the false commitment to equality, the false commitment to conciliation. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that we congratulate you, Mr Vice-President, because we really believe that reform is necessary and needs to benefit officials and benefits from the citizenship that will receive public services, which we believe is important for quality. And we're also concerned that this work or any other work in the field of health or education...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u415	Thank you, Mrs. Prado, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u416	...it can't be done because Mr. Sánchez doesn't pay the coupon that Galicia owes 700 million euros.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u417	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u418	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u419	Thank you. For the closure of the question, Mr Vice-President and Chairlor, Public Administration and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u420	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Prado, there will indeed be a childhood school and all the services that are necessary for workers and workers - over 2,000 - who are in San Caetano every day. So this is one more utility, it's one more reason... very grateful for the contribution. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I told him it would be one more reason, if I had to give them, that they must always be given. That's why we want to do this transparently from the beginning, but I'll give you another one. Only the net savings between 2009 and 2019 - when this exercise was closed - which achieved the Presidency and Vice-Presidentship Council, responsible for the public buildings of the Galician Union - most, at least -, only the net savings of the debt that had to be wiped out of the games that were badly budgeted, the rationalization of the expenditure that was made, the removal of part of the parallel administration, the new methods of energy saving, are 36 million euros. It's already EUR 6 million more than this reform will cost workers and workers. That's all I'd be justified by now. But I think she's justified with a lot more. I insist that this is a work for civil servants and civil servants. By giving him a fact that I think it is quite significant, the only works we have found in four years of Bipartito - which we already know was a real party - are in the spaces and offices of the president of the board in San Caetano, in the office of the president in Raxoi, in the Office of the Presidency Council, Public Administrations and Justice and in the Council Chambers and press room. Do you know how much? Well, more than 7 million euros. Do you know how far the square metre went, in 1,700 square meters just for high offices of the Galician Union? Almost 4,000 euros per square meter. In four years, it's given them time, it's given them time. [[Murmurs.]] That's what we don't want to do. The truth is they left everything very well prepared, so, look, we didn't even think about it -- we wouldn't think about it the same, because we've been ruling for many years and we haven't done it, but we wouldn't even think about it -- doing these works, when there's money. For there to be money, there had to be that 700 million, and we're going to devote them to this, doing works in nearly 50,000 square meters that will affect 2,000 officials and officials, not to high office. The cost of the square meter? Quite less than EUR 1,000 per square metre, compared to the 4,000 that cost these summaries that left us in inheritance. So this is the fundamental difference. We're not all the same, and that's why we're gonna keep working like this. After making the outer envelope, which I think has had a lot of advantages, we're going to start working on the comfort of the officials and officials and the people who attend daily, who are over 500 people who come to San Caetano and who also pay their taxes for the building that is all of them. And that's how we're going to go on. And if this makes Mr. Knight nervous and if this is the only thing that makes him react to the lack of 700 million, I mean that over the next few years he'll get pretty nervous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u421	Thank you, Vice President. Da Maria de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and da Luca Chao Pérez, from G.P. of En Marea, on the intentions of the Galician Union regarding the reopening of the unitary school of the Grouped Rural College of Narón
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u422	Whenever you want, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u423	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. As you well know, in June 2018 the CRA of Narón closed the unitary school because it didn't meet the requirements, which its council established in 6 students. The board assured that the closure was not final, that it could be revoked if continuity was guaranteed: that in the current course there were that number of students. Once the admission deadline for the 2019-2020 course was opened, the unit received the six applications it needed. Let's take a short walk. On 28 March a motion was adopted at the Town Hall requesting that this school be reopened and that the Council fulfil its commitments. The Council has ignored this agreement of the Town Hall. On April 17, in the full election campaign of the general elections and in precipitate of the municipal elections, you received the families and expressed to them and underlined the importance they had for you the rural schools. All right, but he didn't do anything. On May 21 there was concentration of parents and mothers. The parents and mothers of the 3-year-olds hung the mangers in the street instead of hanging them in school. They got 1,600 signatures. The counselor received us and expressed the desire to reopen the school. So did the territorial chief, Cabana Indalecio. We consider the situation to be dishonest and unfair for two reasons. Why do we say she's dishonest? Because they're making a gross breach of a viable promise. It's not like other centers, we've taken nearly 200 rural schools closed. This is bleeding; bleeding to Galicia and bleeding to all. It's unfair also because continuity is guaranteed. The census says: 7 children were born in 2017; 9 in 2018 and in the year they were born 5. It's not a technical problem, it's a purely political problem. The question we asked him had a lot of meaning in July, at the last plenary session. You, for agenda reasons, couldn't come, you were in Connecticut. Now the course began today and these children didn't start at Narón's school...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u424	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u425	The question remains relevant to explain why it has not been reopened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u426	Thank you. Response from the Education, University and Vocational Training Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u427	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all of us again. Mrs. Cuña, it is true that this question is welcomed from the July plenary, but the reality is that the reply from the Education Council was known because it has already been explained on repeated occasions in the previous session, although it is now included in the agenda and that is why we are again talking about this particular case. The Education Council, through a response written in March 2018 and an oral response in Commission 4a, in February 2019, has already explained the situation of the units of the Rural Group of Narón, derived not from the hypothesis, nor from futures, but from specific registration data corresponding to the follow-up of several school courses. The Pedroso Unit, which was operational in the 2017-2018 course, within the CRA of Narón, was left without enough students for the 2018-2019 course, but it had already come from a process of progressive student decrease and that is why it was closed. So that child education unit no longer existed the past course and was suppressed by the Order of 16 July 2018. From that moment on it began a period in which different social and political groups began to generate false expectations and compromise registrations for the 2019-2020 course while transferring the idea that this unit - which is non-unitary - could be reopened. I have to point out that, indeed, I have been concerned about the subject. I received the families without any commitment at any time to reopening school, but if I received them and I showed my concern. I also had the opportunity to explain recently to the mayor of Narón last week that the Pedroso Unit, which on its day was integrated into the CRA, stopped working because it didn't count on the student enough, and this was a trend of the last courses. The Council does not delete units per goat, applies a criterion that is known: a minimum number of students and also take into account the stability in enrolment in several courses. And, of course, it always guarantees the schooling of all school-age students. What's the point of closing, reopening, without real justification? What stability would there be for students, families and teachers? Your Honor, the approach followed by the Education Administration since 2009 is to keep all schools with 6 enrolled students open, a clear commitment from the Union to rural education, to maintain the teaching centres around the children and to contribute from the educational agenda to the roots of the population in rural areas. We are not faced with a decision that applies only this government, it also goes to other communities, and it also happened in the past in Galicia, for example in 2006, which closed 28 units in different Greek localities. The demographic evolution of Galicia demands decisions, which in the educational field require to adapt the educational needs of each area to the social reality, precisely to ensure that school in rural areas is viable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u428	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u429	There are students for this course, for what they come and for the next. The breach is obvious. What you're doing with this is an indecent policy of closing schools in rural areas, and yet they've been shielded since 2017 by concerted schools linked to Opus, which segregate by sex, failing to meet the equality they should meet, and segregate not only by sex but also by social class. The first step for a population to go less is the closing of schools. In this center it would be guaranteed. I'm going to make an honest proposal to you in the face of this incongruence. If it really matters to you, if you really didn't have only electoralist intentions, if you really do fulfill the promises - that they are smoke and take the wind, because you yourself told them you could reopen, and it's the own Councillory who affirms this - if you have political will, listen to the neighbouring, listen to the teachers, listen to the opposition groups, listen to the unions, be consistent and lead and implement a rural-specific education plan. There's a long way to go, Counsellor, collective pro-activists and other educational movements have been moving forward for years in a global community development project. You can do it, it's not a technical problem. This was the answer: it's a technical problem. This was the syslin answer that was given last week to these families. It's a problem of political will, just in the year in which the People's Party sells capital letters: "This is going to be the year of rural life." No, ma'am, it's the year of the depredation of rural schools, don't tell me about 2006...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u430	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u431	In the last few years, almost 200 schools...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u432	Thank you. To close this question, the Education, University and Vocational Training Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u433	Thank you, President. I'm committed to rural work, Mrs Cuña, everything, and not a commitment from the Education Council, but a commitment from the German Government, because we're working on a law of demographic impulse, because we're working with the Rural Media Council at the rural training cycles resurgence, and also because we're working from the Education Council why rural schools that have students don't close, and they don't close because they need only those six students and not other criteria, that they were talking about 10 and 11 students not to close a school. We must understand that commitment must be realistic, and we must understand and understand that this does not imply disregarding the Galician set. I didn't talk about a technical problem, I talked about teaching and technical issues, but not about a technical problem. And I didn't tell them that the school could be reopened, I told them that the situation would often have to be analyzed and think about long-term stability. The commitment of the Educational Administration responds to the existence of the student. The argument can't be that there are no children because there's no cole; it's the other way around: there's no cole because there's no children, and that's why we have to fight for children. And if there's a settlement of children's population that can't move to other schools that are near their place of residence, then the Education Council will respond to these demands. Because to meet the demand for schooling in certain areas right now there are six centers of new construction, well in works well in programming, and some of them are not in large cities; I'm talking about Vilalonga, in Sanxenxo, or King's Peace, in Tui, or Milladoiro in Ames, adding the school that opened today in Negueira de Muñiz's doors. That's not what we're talking about, they're just about clippings, when there's an adaptation to demographic and enrolment reality. Therefore, as every year, the Council reviews the enrolment of public schools in the levels of primary and special education; a normal process that takes place before the start of each course in order to adapt the number of units to that of students enrolled in each centre. According to the final enrolment data in this course, six school units were no longer provided, as I said, to maintain that criterion for the six students, due to the low level of pupils in these schools. We need to note that the Council always keeps -- and another year -- the same criterion to suppress them. As a matter of fact, there is a process of reorganization of units within the educational centres itself which leads to the creation of new units or either the suppression of others or the regrouping. Creation units have also been used for alleged class breakdowns, such as when there is a punctual or circumstantial increase in the number of students and students. So what the Council is doing is organizing an efficient and effective use of educational resources in response to the educational needs of the centres. The reality is that you make a criticism, but what we have to value is the stability and singularity of a differential and innovative educational model like Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u434	Thank you. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The question's over. If they want, they can dialogue at another time, not now. Quiet. Question by Dr. Luca Chao Pérez and Da María de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda, G.P. de En Marea, on the assessment by the Government of the high percentage of squares that were not covered in the public job offer for education
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u435	Whenever you want, Mrs. Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u436	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor, for your presence. The truth is, I'm going to see her around here after the last three questions didn't come, she even asked her colleagues to answer for affective-sexual education and curricular content, which, of course, concerns us. In any case, it's less bad than it is today. Today it's about the public job offer, a matter about which we've been alerting for months now that there was a lot of propaganda, since the offer announced by the Council was insufficient to respond to the needs of public education, it didn't allow to recover all the educational squares that were removed in the years of the crisis and, of course, it wasn't enough to recover the percentage of the interim staff that we had before the People's Party arrived in the Greek Government. Knowing the results of the courts, we also found that the figures were precisely, to a large extent, makeup, as some unions of the country's teaching had already warned. So, from the 2,064 squares the Council had announced that it was going to offer, only 1,671, a figure lower than it had been assessed in 2018, where it was 1,723 of a total of 2,050. That is, today, that this year, there are 341 places that are going to be directly covered by interim personnel. This is at the heart of the complaint made by the IGC-Ensino, which states that most of the deserted squares come from the call for internal promotion to access. As the unions report, it had already been warned at the sectoral table that this was going to happen, when job offers are brought forward in a completely unilateral way, and that squares are going up in a fictitious way to have an interesting headline, to make propaganda, as we used to, because propaganda with the CEO comes out very well. It is precisely the results that come out and we find that, indeed, it is so. Ten percent of the squares are not covered, just the number that alerted the unions that would not be covered. Especially worrisome are the cases, for example, of French teachers, who were more squares not covered by the covers, 38 and 32 respectively, or of specialties such as computer science, with almost half of the uncovered squares, FOL, organization and processes of vehicle maintenance, maintenance of vehicles...; these specialties of vocational training that were all left with about a third of the vacant squares. Or the case of mathematics, which repeats another year, again leaving about 20% of the squares unadjudicated. For all this, counselor, we'd like to know what valuation makes the Government of Greece this high percentage of squares that were not covered.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u437	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Response from the Education, University and Vocational Training Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u438	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. Mrs. Chao, allow me to begin by reaffirming the Council's recognition of the fundamental work being carried out by the Greek teacher in the training of the student who is studying in Galicia and also stressing his involvement in the successful functioning of the education system. I also want to say that in the course of 2019-2020, as it has happened every year at school, the Council is adopting with pedagogical and technical criteria the appropriate measures to ensure that all the students in Greece receive appropriate training to their needs. With regard to your question, as you know and yourself said, the Council called and encouraged the testing of the public job offer of 2019, by which 2,064 squares were offered in 36 different specialties, in which it was the broadest, indeed, call made in Greek education in the last decade. This was done after analysing the needs and meeting the procedures for further progressing in the decrease in the inter-agency rate of teaching bodies, which once again remains the lowest in the entire state. We're talking about 7% after the last selective process. It should be noted that the Council has increased the number of squares it initially planned to offer after meeting the requests of the members of the Follow-up Commission in agreement on job stabilization. In addition, it is necessary to clarify, in the light of the trade unions' statements and also of the one presented here today, that it is mandatory to convene at least 25 per cent of the markets for internal promotion. What was the result of the opposition? The Council offered 1,788 free access squares, where a total of 1,656 opponents were approved, so that the percentage of covered squares reached 92.61%. As a matter of fact, following the legal obligation to convene at least 25% of the squares for internal promotion, 276 squares came out - you said - and only 6.88% were covered with 19 approved. This result, as you will understand, deserves the Council's respect for a number of reasons: firstly, because it is the decision of the aspirants to the official place of education to present themselves to the processes that are convened. Secondly, because it is the courts which, without intervention from the Council, decide the level of evidence and grant the qualifications to which they are examined. Of course, the Council considers it positive that the German education system has better trained teachers, whether as official staff or as interim staff. In this respect, we are aware of our claim that the central government and the autonomous communities are making progress in improving the initial training of the teacher, and of course from the Council we are endeavouring each course to update and improve the annual training plan for the permanent teacher. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u439	Thank you very much, Counselor. You have the floor, for the reply, Mrs. Chao Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u440	Come, come; answer is another thing. Assessment of the precariousness they impose did nothing at all. You know perfectly well that it would be possible for a particular specialty to be unmet, because a specific specialty might not have enough aspiring. It cannot be considered normal for this to happen year after year, that year after year there are hundreds of unmet squares. There's something else, and what's behind it is, on one side, what he said before: that making ads in the CEO is very profitable -- it doubles the propaganda in the Official Journal of Galicia -- and that you know that this will be repeated and could be avoided. How could it be avoided? The unions have claimed it on numerous occasions. It would be avoided if the access system to the teaching body had been changed at once. How could it be done? Well, on the one hand, preventing the evidence from being eliminated. You know, by getting many aspirings to fall in the first band, you might be limiting that aspirants who would have excellent results in the second test are left out. If the tests weren't eliminaters, we'd be better able to get as much personal as possible. And secondly, of course, there is a need for means, more courts. Whether a court has to assess between a hundred or a hundred and appreciative peaks is a disincentive. It's too many. They say they don't give them enough time, they have to make crows too hard. The courts are sovereigns, but you're the ones who impose marathon conditions on them. Counsellor, you know it doesn't matter, in the end, to the Council, which matters little, whether a square remains or not without covering, because finally the wheel continues to rotate and of course the interiors and the interiors will come to fill these squares. What you're deciding is whether you want officials or want precariousness, and the Government of the Union is always putting itself on the side of precariousness. What we ask you to do, Counsellor, is that your responsibility, when, precisely, you are a counselor, is to defend public employment of quality, and for that, you have to adapt public job offers to real demand, you have to dialogue with social agents to make the offer realistic...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u441	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u442	...and, of course, we need to update the system of evaluation to the demands of the system that we have today.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u443	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. For the Government's replica shift, the Minister of Education, University and Vocational Training, Mrs. Pomar Tojo, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u444	Thank you, President. Allow me, Mrs Chao, the metaphor or freedom of this metaphor: that, indeed, there are people who know how to drive, but you also have to know the traffic code. We can't have the driver's license just by knowing how to drive and prove it. I insist on the message with which I started my previous intervention: the Council will ensure that every student in Greece is trained properly to his needs. At the start of a new school course it is appropriate not to question whether Galicia has enough teaching staff and that in any case it is fair to the real demands that appear at the start of the course. The teaching staff is composed of both staff and internal staff, and it will not be this Councillorship that criticizes the qualifications and professionalism of our teachers. In any case, we will defend and work for a constant improvement of its formation, both initial and permanent. As far as non-university education is concerned, there is no shortage of teachers, the coverage of educational needs is guaranteed in Galicia with existing staff, and we are also aware of the urgent needs of staff informed by local heads. On this first day of the course there are already 750 teachers and teachers who have been called to cover real-time substitutions where for various reasons the headline has not been incorporated. The Counsellor, therefore, is adjusting the number of units and teachers to the specific educational needs and the evolution of the student course to course. And we have to point out several things: that Galicia is the autonomous community with fewer pupils per teacher -- we speak of a ratio of 10.5 in the Ministry's latest data corresponding to the 2015-2016 course -- and that the influence of population dispersion in Galicia is also important. The registration is decreasing in rural areas, and this causes -- and we've already talked about this in the previous question -- the disappearance of units in these centers and, therefore, of teaching posts, and the Council today is meeting the needs of the centres. In any case, it is necessary to point out that the student in Greece has the necessary attention in his educational centres to this day. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u445	Thank you very much, Counselor. Da María de la Concepción Burgo López e D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, do G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the functioning of the visits to the palace of Meirás
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u446	To put the question, Mrs. Burgo López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u447	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As it was predictable for the world less for the Galician Union, this summer the Franco family again tried to set traps and avoid visits to the court of Meirás, visits that it is obliged to leave for article 48 of the Cultural Heritage Act and visits that I remember are directed and managed by the Francisco Franco Foundation. The Francos used the same old artimagins: a phone where you have to call that no one answers, an automatic answering machine that says it will answer and not respond and an email that doesn't emit any kind of response either. This could be checked perfectly throughout the summer by simply calling --anything -- on the phone, but Junta didn't seem to have called, and reacted, as always, late and when all this went out in the media. And look, Counselor, that this year it was even more predictable that these things would happen, because it had been presented by the Government presided over by Mr. Sánchez with a civil demand to request and obtain the return of the property of the palace that the Franco family absorbs in an absolutely fraudulent way. I'm sure this demand will go ahead and that we will achieve it, but in the meantime, Francos have to keep fulfilling their obligations, as well as the schedules; the schedules that were already maintained throughout the winter. This year they were changed during the summer, and I imagine that the Galician Union allowed it, because on the Galician Tourism website the change of hours appeared, in addition to a reduction in the number of hours of visit. It does not seem acceptable, Mr. Counselor, that he always acts late, ill and the trail, as it is often said. We have asked you, Mr Counsellor, that in the face of all these breaches - that you have said you would open an informative record - to be flexible and consistent, and also to explain to us - because here you open even a new problem with the Franco family - that you are going to go through with the visits to the new BIC, to the sculptures of the Arctic of Gloria, which also usurps the Franco family, who, as such BIC and by article 48, have the obligation to be able to be visited. We don't know if you're already analyzing how they're going to force the Franco family into this new situation. Nothing else for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u448	Thank you very much, Mrs Burgo. Mr. Culture and Tourism Counsellor, Mr. Rodríguez González, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u449	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I, whenever I can, I take advantage of it to say that this government has no moral or political debt with the Franco family, neither with the dictatorship, nor with all that black period in history, and I also say that it seems that sometimes it is the Socialist Party that lives best against Franco, more peak than pa, because each and every three speaks of that it is necessary to carry out a series of actions and, ultimately, very peak and very little pa. I want to tell you in this sense that this Unity of Galicia was the only one that sanctioned the Franco family, precisely by breach of its duties as the owner of a BIC. I also tell you that in this case it was the Council of Galicia, fulfilling a parliamentary mandate, which has set in motion a commission consisting of a large number of specialized technicians, intellectually relevant persons and great legal solvency, who have set in motion and opened up a number of legal possibilities, which are precisely those that are currently driving the Government of the State; that is, with a delay of almost a year. In any case, you may be perfectly calm that this administration will act in accordance with the law, respecting the rights and obligations of all citizens, they are named as they are called. If you confirm, open up the grievances and set up the file, that there is a breach of your duties as the owners of a BIC, the Board will act without any kind of problem and no kind of prejudice, in this case as in any other citizen's case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u450	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Burgo López has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u451	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, Counselor, I can't allow you to say this that you just said about the "pee and pa" because if anyone has a policy of historical memory, it's the Socialist Party, which is what brought the law forward. [[Applause]] And what didn't comply with a single article of that law was the People's Party, both the People's Party of Madrid, which never complied with a single article of this law, as well as the People's Party of Galicia, which until the citizen pressure forced it did not act in the court of Meirás. I also want to tell you that it was difficult for another government to sanction the Franco family, because there was no other government, because it turns out that the visits were opened when you were already in power, in the Government of Galicia. But that, yes, was the previous government, the PSOE and BNG government, who declared BIC that palace, and then forced the Franco family to open it. As for the delay you say, look, it's less bad that the Socialist Party was in government when it was possible to open a civil suit to the Franco family, because you know that you challenged Rajoy's government in April 2018, after sending the report of the Crown Deputy? Rajoy's government said that there was no possibility of filing a petition for the palace of Meirás, that it could not be integrated under any concept into the national heritage. So, you wouldn't at all open a suit to the Franco family, because you'll have nothing to do with the Franco family, as you say, but the truth is to protect if they helped you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u452	Thank you very much, Mrs Burgo. You have the floor, for the Government's reply, the Councillor for Culture and Tourism, Mr. Rodríguez González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u453	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam President, I insist that the Socialist Party always intends to build an account where it tries to be the most anti-Francist in the world and wants others not to be. Well, look, we have absolute democratic legitimacy, and, as I told you, our Government has no moral or political debt with frankism, nor with a tremendously black period of our history. You can be perfectly quiet and sure that we will continue to comply with the law, and our obligation is obviously this. In this particular case, there are open delicacy, information is being requested, as is the procedure, so that it is not declared null. If we did the axe, so to speak in a very graphic and very vulgar way, we would be favouring the offender precisely. We're doing it the way it should be, there's no premeditated delay or much less, it's just a procedure that needs to be followed so that the files can be impeccable and be effective. And in this sense, you are calm that in no case, in case you prove that there is a failure, this family, like any other family, will be unpunished in the action of the Administration, because I insist that, regardless of surnames, here is a legal framework that must be complied with and that must be respected. And as far as you're concerned, I would like to remind you, Your Honor, that this government was what, with this commission of experts, opened a door, because precisely other doors that were being proposed led nowhere, as it was also proposed. It was precisely the technical, solvent, serious and well-orientated work of the commission driven by the Council of Galicia that enabled us to open a line of hope so that this peace could be integrated into the public heritage, and never return, because it was never. I think we have a very good news today, of which I am sure we all rejoice, and this good news is that both the Sada Town Council and the Galician Council are legitimized to be a helpful party - as is said in legal language - in this price. We all hope that there will be one result, and that the only result will be that the palace of Meirás will become part of the public heritage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u454	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Mr. Paula Vázquez Verao, G.P. Mixed, on the Galician board's assessment of Sergas staff's working conditions
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u455	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u456	Yes, thank you. We therefore hope not to undermine the House's decorum too much with these demanding t-shirts, which are the ones that couldn't look at the potential nurses who are in the rostrum today. These are the examples of those thousands of people who work in our public health system and must be on the phone for 24 hours. Many don't know where they're going to work or how much time, or whether they're going to work that day when they get up in the morning, because they're posted on the recruitment lists and penalise them — in many cases excessively — not taking jobs or taking the phone. If any staff, in fact, have no right to reconciliation, they have no right -- to redundancy -- to the most fundamental labour rights -- no vacations, no full maternity leave, no work leave -- because, if they fully exercise their rights, they are excessively penalized. We want, once again today, to give a voice to this group of potential nurses in the struggle, who came up to show — and I quote textually — that the Administration believes that they are so, enslaved and without rights, that they can take a hand at any time of the day or night, so they can pick up their phone, because if they don't, they don't eat." The first thing we want is to ask you, Counselor, about the real data of temporality in Sergas, because here what has been exposed during these months was the lies, both of Feijóo and of Sergas' manager, who talked about that precariousness "is not a normal situation." One said 85% of Sergas' staff have stable ties and the other said 88%, they didn't even agree on the dimensions of the lie! These dimensions of the lie are given by the Board of Auditors, when it says temporality is still very high, 40% specialized, and 28.1% primary. So if this isn't the data, you have the opportunity to make transparency. But the reality we've found is that it doesn't interest transparency, because those 10,787 nurses and nurses enrolled in these replacement lists are continually concaterating these contracts months, weeks, days... and they suffer this situation for years. There was a survey of the Association of Sociosanitary Nursing in the Coruña that talked about how an average of 8.14 years could be recorded on these lists. That average situation of 24 contracts per year is tremendous. They've been concaterating contracts for years, working lives that look like the old telephone guide. So one of the most harmful aspects we want to point out is the lack of conciliation. How can the Joint Government itself then boast of having this draft law of demographic impulse, when most of the staff of the collected Greek Nursing — are data from the INE — are about five thousand people under the age of 35, most women who are at reproductive age? By what right can you say that the question of the Greek demographic crisis is — as you said once here —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u457	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u458	...that women didn't want to have children?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u459	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez Verao
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u460	With what right can you say that when there is no real possibility of reconciliation?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u461	Thank you very much. Your time is up. The health counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u462	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Parliamentary, Mrs Vázquez Verao, the truth is that, as always, data are provided without contrast, simply based on surveys. We have made it clear that the most important planning document of the Health Council is the Strategy of Sergas 2020, which I present here, which is a fundamental guide for us, and on axis 2 it speaks of professionals committed and cared for by the organization. And how are we taking care of our staff? Well, logically, with a lot of different actions, one of them is improving stability, public job offers. Galicia is the only community that has continuously maintained annual calls for public job offers since 2012, exhausting the maximum rate of replacement of personnel authorized by basic legislation, and which will allow, after the execution of the corresponding selective processes, the incorporation of about 6,000 professionals with a fixed bond to health institutions in the period 2012-2019. Of course, an economic crisis — indeed, during the period of progressive governments in Spain — has led to a very economically complicated situation which has made these limitations very difficult. On 25 April 2017, the Employment Stability Plan and the provision of statutory staff squares were published, a plan negotiated with the trade union organizations represented in the Health Sectoral Bureau, and, among other things, temporary staff stabilization and staffing measures of 438 vacancies in the staff framework of the health institutions of the Galego Health Service, and the dispatch of so many other interim appointments. In order to follow this plan, a commission is constituted which forms part of the trade union organisations that sign this agreement. Besides, we have continuity contracts. This bet is a commitment to employment stability. One of the first communities that we've brought forward, in principle, for primary care doctors and pediatricians; but now they're also in the nursing category, by the agreement of the Health Sectoral Table of last July 3. Professionals who accept this appointment have guaranteed the rest, permits and holidays regime set by the application regulations; therefore, we continue to move forward. The third paragraph — which is also very important — is the creation of new squares. Even so, after negotiation at the sectoral table with trade unions such as CEM, UXT, CSIF and SATSE, the allocation of 308 new primary care squares in the period 2019 and 2020 in the Primary Care Plan was recently agreed; and so on, 45 new HADO Plan squares in the period 2019-2021. We're growing up in new squares. And it's also a very important point for us, reconciling family and work life. The measures we are taking, as well as initiatives, are of course the first communities to take them: the open and permanent transfer contest, the establishment of additional specific scores...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u463	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u464	...in selective processes or the possibility of opting for area changes in the provision of services...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u465	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u466	...or the reservation of long-term links to registered aspirants...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u467	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u468	...on the temporary selection lists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u469	Thank you very much. For the replica shift, you have the floor to Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u470	Thank you. I understand that because of this data demagogy, he's accusing the Board of Accounts, which places temporality at 40% in specialized care. As for those measures that have been put on the table, the squares are not enough. We're talking more than 10,000 people in this situation. We're talking about the need to stabilize the squares that are structurally covered with possible but which are necessary for the maintenance of services. We're talking about the fact that contracts cannot be abused because of the accumulation of tasks, which is done this way because we don't want to declare a vacancy. We're talking about not reaching the markets offered after years of cuts and that replacement rate you referred to, that when they were ruling in the state they couldn't eliminate. We're also talking about that stability contract, yes, but what you didn't say was that it was rejected by the vast majority of pediatricians and doctors and doctors. And in addition to this contract, for the data that Sergas transfers, for now he'll only receive a hundred professionals; we're talking about thousands and he only welcomes 100. We're talking that this contract refers to accumulations and to covering reinforcements, you won't know the whole cartel before; therefore, you won't have that reconciliation either. There are also doubts about the minimum hours to be held, at last, and also about rest. In the end, it's something that doesn't work out, it's another patch. As for conciliation, one of the aspects they also had to deal with is whether this contract is being concluded, which needs to be updated. Because, for example, what reconciliation can happen when you are penalized because they call you, and those calls, instead of respecting time between them, are followed up to run the list? And defaults are usual. Or when they tell you that you have to go to a place the previous hour, because you had to start working at 3:00 and it turns out they call you at 4:00. Conciliation is not the system in which Sergas is currently put to thousands of people. I was saying a 29-year-old nurse who had waited at the hospital door to give her baby to her partner so she could work.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u471	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u472	Of course, if they call you from one hour to another, it's impossible to reconcile.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u473	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u474	It's impossible even to take the children home.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u475	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez Verao. For the Government's replica shift, the Health Counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuína, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u476	For the truth is that I am glad, Madam, because what you are saying is when we talk about the measures we have taken; then, in this second intervention, it says: but now we have to do them. Logically, we do, because we're a serious institution that we have agreements with the unions and that we're continually reviewing the negotiating tables. As I say, in order to achieve these purposes, we take those measures because, logically, we mark with a strategy of the Government of Galician Union that there is more stability and more reconciliation for public service workers. And we also do it with intense negotiation — as I say — with trade union centres, reaching agreements and, logically, reviewing these agreements. And also with complaints to the Government of the nation. Galicia has repeatedly requested — as you well know — the elimination of replacement rates. And the Government of the nation—which is not the People's Party—is currently a progressive Government—is unable to do so today. I also want to remind you that this very government of the nation does not release 700 million for the Galician Union in order to give greater coverage to social services. And I also have to say that, despite that, since Galicia meets its objectives, it can have a restorative rate of 108%. By the way, in the last OPE, Health had 108% of the restorative rate — above all autonomous communities — and also 8% of the Public Service, 8% of the education, which gave him to increase the stability rates on his staff. I therefore believe that we are moving forward, and moving forward — as I say — with all the measures we have at our disposal. And I'm also asking the Central Government to create records for health professionals. As for the category of nurse and nurse, of course, within all the general I've talked about before, we have very important OPEs that are currently being processed, a selective process that is now close to finishing that will allow the incorporation of 830 new professionals in this category, with fixed ties, to the public health system, of which 775 will enter by the turn of free access. He also knows that in the public service the only form of access is through opposition. And besides, as is reflected in the Stability Plan, by the execution of the temporary staff stabilization measures envisaged in this finalization of the approved selective processes, the percentage that the staff has fixed over time will be increased, and we want to place the eventuality at 5%, when at the national level the previous Government had set an overall target of 8%. At present, Sergas has 700 more nursing professionals in the staff category than he did in 2008. Of course, we will continue with the implementation of nurses specialists in the Greek health system — we are also pioneers — we will continue with the measures of family and labour reconciliation — as it says, evolving this type of measure — or continue with the development of professional careers as well. Of course, we are proud of our professionals, because thanks to them we have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u477	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u478	...a magnificent health system and it is worth continuing to work for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u479	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the closing of hospital beds during the summer months
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u480	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u481	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. The closing of beds during the four months of summer is a constant that, year after year, repeats itself by the determined will of the People's Party to continue cutting into public health. The Greek health system has a very poor number of hospital beds. Galicia has 3.1 beds per 1,000 inhabitants, we are at the queue of the Spanish state, only has less Andalusia and Castile-A Mancha; in the European Union, there are only four countries with a worst offer than Galicia: Sweden, Denmark, Ireland and the United Kingdom, which means that we are also at the queue of the European Union average, which is 5 per 1,000 inhabitants. And let's not mention Germany, which leads the ranking with 8.1 beds; Austria, 7.5; Bulgaria, 7.2; Hungary and Lithuania, 7. And, of course, far from the recommendations of the World Health Organization, which sets between 8 and 10 beds per 1,000 inhabitants. In the ten years of the People's Party Government more than 7% of the hospital beds, 770 beds, the fourth most lost community in the Spanish state. And despite this obvious structural deficit, again this summer they closed around 1,000 beds in public hospitals, whole units, just like surgeons and diagnostic equipment, which were inoperative or low minimum. Close beds, resources, no personal hire or renewal of those who are hired as a purely economic measure. Bed closing is a purely economic measure and does not meet the care criteria. They maintain and cut, although it means the deterioration of health care. Close beds, have under minimal surgery, diagnostic equipment and personnel is not harmless, Counsellor, have contraindications and side effects. The closure of beds has consequences in the field of work: pressure on professionals, increased unemployment; in the care system: worst care quality, difficulties in care, saturation of CAP and hospital emergency services, increased private derivation, exponential increase in waiting lists. You keep increasing complaints and complaints, on all sides, about how the waiting lists are for first consultations, for results, for surgical interventions, and a country with gross waiting lists like those we have in Galicia, like those of Sergas, can't afford the luxury of being low for at least four months, for four long months. So, what we ask you, Counselor, is how you're going to compensate for this accumulation of waiting lists; that you're going to do with already crowded waiting lists that with this four-month inaction have done nothing but increase; and if you're going to open all the closed beds at the end of this September or do what you do every year: take advantage to leave a part out of service and not reopen them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u482	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. For the Question Time by the Government, you have the floor of Mr. Health Counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuína.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u483	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Sergas, as it cannot be otherwise, plans assistance resources on the basis of citizens' demand. The adequacy of resources to care needs implies the adoption of a set of management measures that, always ensuring quality and safety in health care to users, preserves the efficiency and proper use of public services and funds, as could otherwise not be in a public health system like ours; plans depending on the seasonality and morbidity of certain pathologies and, as a result, keeps resources adapted to reality. The truth is, it's funny that you define summer as four months, I don't know if for your vacations or who I am, but usually summer doesn't mean four months, it certainly refers to a shorter period. [[Murmurs.]] This type of health management planning is not a peculiarity of our system, but it's something that's done throughout the year in all health services around the world. In planning the Galego Health Service we take into account the expected occupation of beds, both for medical income and for surgical activity derivatives. The demand over the year is floating and the resources adapt to the needs at every moment. The result of this seasonal fluctuation, during the summer period, is documented a significant decrease, both in prevalence and morbidity in numerous pathologies, and this is responsible for a smaller number of patients who are susceptible to health care. In the case of hospitalization, the estimated occupation of the months corresponding to the summer period in 2019, adds a safety margin above the actual occupation of between 10% and 12%, which ensures the correct healthcare of patients. If we analyze Sergas data corresponding to the accumulated period July-September of 2018, it is reflected that for that period, with a percentage of occupancy of 75%, the working beds were 88%. There is always a percentage above the expected schedule for that period. The data available for the summer period of 2019 indicate that the percentage of occupation is approximately the same as last year. Given that the percentage of working beds for the summer period, July-September - therefore, without closing yet - is being 88%, it is obvious that proper planning of available resources has been made. But if necessary, for exceptional reasons such as an emergency, for example, the case of Marisquin last year, we have plans of contingency, with installed and operational beds and staff recruitment, in order to respond to unplanned events. On the other hand, something as obvious as that in summer hospitals continue to operate, and in this summer period hospital activity in Galicia has increased in all areas: consultations, intervention, tests, incomes and emergencies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u484	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u485	Your Honor, I recommend that you look at the bed closing relationship in our country's hospitals, see how you start closing your beds in June and continue closing them until September, and, as I know, it's four months. Maybe you need some kind of calculation. [[Applause]] You don't believe anything you're saying, I don't know how to qualify. Before the summer, we asked him to take advantage of the scandalous waiting lists, to make full-day contracts to the optional staff who had contracts for guards, to offer him stable contracts, to hire the staff needed to reduce those waiting lists. You didn't do it at all, you gave a reply of dysplicity and pride like the one you just did now: not to listen to or answer what you were asked to do. They do not intend to change anything at all because it is the roadmap they have marked. Because just as this reserve army is needed in the workplace, because if it's not possible to impose the work measures of precariousness, without waiting lists on health and deterioration, it's not possible to fatten private health. That's right! And with the needs of the population, the normal thing would be that during the summer they took advantage to lower those waiting lists. [[Murmurs.]] And look, the population requires assistance, the ones that don't give it to them are you. He's ill, he's in the CHUS to be given an appointment for a health process that began in 2013. He had to be chained to be heeded. I suppose that's the alternative you give to the Greeks and to the Greeks. They report waiting for more than 800 days for a urology consultation in Ferrol. If the CHUS had all the devices operated, 700 surgical interventions could have been performed that had not been performed. In CHUAC's oncology, there are 450 pending oncology TACs. In Ferrol allergy, for example, a patient has to wait until February 2020 for an appointment to be held in February 2019. A patient in Salnés had to have cardiology and he was going to have nine months later. This is the reality, Mr. Almuño, that there is a real public health...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u486	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u487	...and then there's the public health of lying and propaganda...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u488	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u489	...as you systematically do...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u490	Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u491	...in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u492	Thank you. Close shift, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u493	Thank you very much. When it comes to insults, there's not much... No, there's not much argument behind it. [[Murmurs.]] Look, in the end, what we have to tell are the results, because it seems to you that they close in June and summer lasts four months. Results. Let's get the results, which is the important thing. July and August results, so there's no discussion about whether it's summer or not summer; July and August looks like summer. Look, you're waiting for surgery. The surgical wait has reached an average time of 56.4 days, the best data from all June since the record, far above the state average. In fact, Galicia, as you know, is in the fourth place as to waiting lists. In priority 1, the average waiting time is 16 days, when the target should be less than 30 days. With the latest available data, the National Health System is in 93 days. The activity. The wait is this June, but we're going to the activity in July and August. The number of interventions in July and August 2019 was 27,805; 422 more than in the same period of 2018. Ambulatory surgery increase. There were 13,912 interventions this year; 544 interventions more than last year. Consultations, activity. 604,823 has been completed. The honourable lady is saying that one person has had such a delay... that in two months there have been 604,000 consultations; 24,000 more than in 2018. The delay of consultations in June 2019 is 37.6 days. The average wait of the National Health System in 2018 was 57 days, because 2019 is not yet published. Tests. Number of tests in July and August, 524,926; 12,663 more than in 2018. Income in summer July and August, 36,606; 217 more than last year. Hospital emergencies. Number of emergencies attended, 179.219; 2.760 more than last year. So the results, with all the catastrophe that might have been in Galicia according to you, seem to be positive. It seems we're also told, and compared, that we're better than Sweden in beds. The data that are published on many occasions refer to a very important evolution that has occurred in Galicia, and is that long-stay psychiatric hospitals have been abandoned, that we all agree that they should not exist. That's why there's a decrease in beds. Ladies and gentlemen, since the Galego Health Service we planned this summer; it served to give quality and perform more activity and services...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u494	Thank you. You have the word of the counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u495	...to our citizens. And, of course, we're going to continue planning...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u496	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u497	...always to meet the needs of the population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u498	Thank you. Question by Da Marta Rodríguez Arias and eight other Members of the G.P. Most people in Galicia on the measures planned by the Galician Council to further expand the Family Hospitality Programme
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u499	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, good afternoon. Family care is the best protection resource for children and adolescents at risk or at a loss. It provides a family environment to those minors who under different circumstances cannot temporarily live with their biological family. At present, more than 500 children are within the Family Hospitality Program, which means 59 per cent of minors protected by the Galician Union. The involvement and solidarity of families is fundamental, because without them there would be no family reception, but it is also fundamental the support decided by the Galician Union for this family reception programme, increasing up to EUR 3.4 million the budget intended for it, improving the payment system for welcoming families and even conducting dissemination campaigns on the programme. Also with concrete measures to support families, such as that technical support and support throughout the process. The assumption by the board of extraordinary expenses such as speech, physiotherapy, dentistry or optical care, the total exemption from payment by access to a child's school, help for books or free school dining. We believe it is very important to continue to bet on the reception of minors who are under the protection system because it is the best resource for these children to live in a normalized environment, where they feel loved and can be fully developed. So we also believe that it is necessary to keep betting every day so that they are more families to accommodate these children. Therefore, Counsellor, today we would like to know, from your advice, what measures you have planned to take in order to continue to bet on family welcome and to improve the family reception program. For now, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u500	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Response from the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u501	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, I really appreciate you bringing to this House today a matter of such relevance here in Galicia as is the family reception; a solidarity act carried out in favour of a child who is experiencing a situation of special helplessness. They will agree with me that the protection of our children and our children is the responsibility of all: of society as a whole and of all public institutions in particular. That's why the Galician Union has among its priority actions always to preserve the rights of minors, especially those who find themselves in a situation of helplessness. That's why, in this sense, it's vital for the program that is being launched at the Cunta de Galicia, a program of family reception of the Government of Galicia in collaboration with the Red Cross. Through this program, a family that meets the personal, educational conditions and also suitable materials is temporarily responsible for the care of a child or a child when he or she is at risk. The situations and contexts of minors who are part of a foster family are very diverse. Children and children who have just been born and who will soon be received in adoption, minors who will be re-entered into their family nucleus a while ago, or even adolescents who will be in foster care until their age. In view of this variety of situations, there are adequate answers to each of them. Therefore, the Galician Union can provide family support when it finds that minors are at risk; exercise custody either by a court decision or also by a parent's request, that they cannot temporarily take care of their children and their daughters; or guardianship, when it is found that these minors are declared helpless and do not receive the proper and necessary care from their families. Ladies and gentlemen, family hospitality shows that it is an essential resource for all these little Galicians, as it allows them to reintegrate and grow into a family environment that will always provide them with security, affection, but above all stability. I mean, we give the little ones in Galicia the conditions they need to always develop in the best way possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u502	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u503	Thank you, Mr. President. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. Counsellor, in my speech, I would like to thank all those welcoming families in Galicia, because without them, in fact, many children could not be in that family environment, but they would have to be in a juvenile centre. So let us thank those families in Galicia for their solidarity and their work with these children. [[Applause]] On the other hand, let us be clear what is the philosophy of the Council of Galicia and what is that support decided by the family welcome. Specifically, the Galician Strategy for Children and Adolescents 2018-2020 says that "the Galician Union will improve the reception program for children who need cohabitative alternatives, prioritising family reception against residential care". These figures confirm this, Counselor, although often this parliament comes to twist and say that the Union is not betting on family welcome. In addition, minors are considered to be members of the family unit for the purposes of numerous family recognition; strengthening economic support for welcoming families and social awareness measures for the positive visibility of family home and the involvement of the Greek families. We want more, the minors need more and the minors deserve more, because there's nothing above their interest. So we are open to hearing new proposals from the Galician Council because they are the important ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u504	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Close this question, Social Policy Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u505	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, in 2018 the host family bank in Galicia rose to 317, and thanks to them, 281 minors in Galicia were welcomed. As you well said, I also want to thank all these families very sincerely today for their commitment and their altruism to pride all these little Galicians who need a lot of support from them all the time. This thanks can not only be made with words, but the Galician Union also supports this appreciation with facts, such as the EUR 3.4 million destined for family reception; an increase of 40% introduced in 2018 and consolidated in 2019. The amount paid to host families increased by 16% in this legislation, from EUR 240 to EUR 280 per month for children between 3 and 18 years of age. As you know, for under three years, the counts are much higher. All these advances have always found an admirable response within the whole of Galician society, and the German Government will always bet on family welcome as a priority option for all minors who find themselves in a risk situation, in a situation of disappearance, always above their integration into a residential center. Family hospitality is such a priority, because the family is the environment where we all grow and develop. It's always essential to develop our human abilities. And if family hospitality can be a priority, it's because of the extraordinary human quality that demonstrates all the Galician families who participate in this initiative. So, finally, thank you, a thousand times, all those families.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-11-DSPG127.u506	Thank you, Counselor. There's no more business. Finish the full here. Good afternoon, everyone.
