ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u1	Good morning. Let us resume the session with agenda item 6, which corresponds to questions for the oral reply of the President of the Union. In this case, we are debating in an inclusive manner the question of the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block and that of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the forecasts of the Government of Galicia for the rectification of its health policy on cuts and privatizations Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga of G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the intentions of the Government of Greece regarding the in-depth rectification of its health policy in recent years
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u2	It therefore begins by asking the question, by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u3	Thank you very much. My first words I want them to be of recognition to the professionals we have in public health, because, without their commitment, their dedication and commitment, the cuts would have been much more serious. I want to thank them with all my heart for defending the right to health of the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Applause]] Together with citizenship, they served as a barrier against you, Mr. Feijóo, to become a sort of public health terminator, committed to making health a business for your friendly companies. We just have to see what's going on with Povervisa or foundations of Romey Beccaria's environment. His reaction was to always, to incur those who denounce and proclaim themselves as a defender and valuator of the unique truth. But there has been a country that hasn't softened in the face of its lies and arrogance: 26 heads of primary care of Vigo have been dismissed, the CHUS emergencies have been on undefined strike for eleven weeks now, the CAPs are on foot in war, the urgent health transport announces a strike from February 8th, there are stops called in primary care throughout Galicia, and the streets of this country overflow every time a mobilization is convened in defense of public health. And, of course, as you saw that the lies and their pre-power were no longer working, it's now dedicated to political transvestism by taking advantage of the change in government. Now ask that there be no restorative rates in public health. I, actually, Mr. Feijóo, what do you want me to tell you? Well, welcome to the defense that there's no need for repositioning rates in public health. BNG doesn't have to convince him, we've been trying to finish those replacement rates for ten years! [[Applause]] But if you want to have the slightest credibility, start by doing your homework, call the 6,067 vacant squares in Sergas. For once stop throwing balloons out — that's what cheated players do — and govern. And we say more: it offers decent conditions for workers and workers, because what you did was to expel thousands of doctors from our country's health system to the base of precariousness. The great binomy of public health is more resourceful and more professional, so -- we insist -- summon the 6,067 vacant squares in Sergas and end with the cuts. Since the BNG we propose that an impact plan with 200 million euros be put in place to end the cuts in primary care. And it also recovers primary care management, but with management capacity and with budgets. Mr. Feijóo, what we're really asking you to do is correct, because you're only right when you're corrected. And we're talking about something as serious and as important as the health of the Greeks and the Greeks, stop playing with her and put her at risk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u5	Mr. Núñez Feijóo, welcome to the purpose of amending health policy. He's finally beginning to rectify, he finally assumes or begins to take on the diagnosis of the state of public health that we've been doing to him for the past two years; in particular, about the situation of primary care, which is the content of my question today. You were defending that we were at the best of the worlds possible until very little time ago, and they accused us of not valuing professionals enough. But now you recognize structural problems along with diagnostic and management errors. And the professionals themselves do an X-ray, or scan, of the health system that basically matches what we've done here in recent times, and I've told you roundly that you were wrong. They also say that the working conditions in which many professionals operate were a problem for the quality of the health system. And they also told him that their policies were deteriorating the health status of the system. You removed the functional autonomy of primary care in 2012 and the consequence was a weight loss of this so important segment of the health system in the whole. The solution doesn't go through a cosmetic operation, it goes through restoring the primary care agency, it comes back with functional autonomy to primary care. You argued there were no cuts and now we know that primary care is 1,250 and so many professionals less than in 2008. We already know that in terms compared to the Spanish average we're under. And if we compare ourselves to autonomous communities similar to ours — Castle-Leon, Asturias, Aragon or Extremadura — we are at a sidereal distance in the number of doctors per inhabitant. You know well that needs depend not only on the population but also on the increase in chronicity, they depend on pluripathology, they depend on the degree of aging, which is one of the most characteristic problems of our health system. And the cuts cause insufficient attention times, coverage difficulties — for example in the CAP — that produce episodes like the Road, that we all regret and that you are reluctant to explain. You also said until very little time ago that there was no excessive precariousness. Today we know -- because professionals say it -- that we're about 25% or 30% of precarious staff in some areas of the system. And this is much more than reasonable. They offer one-year contracts. All right, it's better than a day's or an hour's contract. They're in the right direction. But they have to go further, they have to get these contracts to be a bridge to a stable quality offer, which is a transition. We cannot chronicle the precariousness, they have to get these contracts to have the consequent freedom of guards, which substantially reduces the scope of geographic coverage and that there is flexibility, which is progressively reduced as the staff is in the health system. We need you to be brave. You have to rectify your diagnosis for real, but above all you have to take away the budgetary, regulatory and management consequences of your diagnosis. It has to change the diagnosis and, therefore, the policies — and therefore also the one who wants to take those policies forward. Be brave, recover the best of Emilio Pérez Touriño's health policy. And I'm sure you're right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u6	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u7	Thank you very much. Mr. Leicega, I take note of your last sentence. Ladies and gentlemen, after requesting a commission of inquiry on public health — if they do not agree — after not attending the presence of the Health Counsellor, after not attending the presence of the Councillor of Fairy and after not attending the presence of the President of Galicia — all to talk about public health — his questions today about public health are round the parliamentary ridiculous they have been making for weeks. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, if I were like you, I would simply refer them to what the Health Counsellor, the Fanda Counsellor and I, and all the others present, said on that health commission. But unlike you, I respect this Parliament. I respect this Parliament because this Parliament is the representation of the citizens of Galicia. And also regarding Galician public health, because I'm proud of her. Galician public health is infinitely better valued than the opposition, without any doubt. Greek public health is good — it's also better — and the opposition in Galicia is bad, and, in my view, it has no solution. Ladies and gentlemen, you weren't in the commission, and everyone knows why. Because they realized that, in addition to their lies, you would have to listen to arguments; in addition to their press rounds, you would have to listen to specific data, assumptions and activity. You were upset that the councillors wanted to come in and that the president of the board himself wanted to come in from the beginning. Did they think we were going to hide to talk about public health? Have they not yet realized that we are proud of the Welsh public health and all its professionals? That's why you ran away from the investigation commission, because the goal is to denigrate public health, denigrate public health in press rounds, where there are no questions from professionals or replicas from health care managers. It's denigrating public health whenever they have occasion. But the truth and truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that we went there to say that we are proud of the public health of Galicia. Why? Because it's much better than we find when we get to the government and because it's better than most regions of the European Union. If they came to debate with me, you'd know what I said. But as I have regard to this Parliament, I have no objection to remembering it. Ladies and gentlemen, the public health of 2018, and public health of 2019, is the public health with more budgets in the history of the autonomous community: 4,000 million euros. It's public health where they work more professional than ever, public health with more activity than ever, and with less waiting list than ever. It is public health that was able to achieve, during the economic crisis, that 70% of the Greeks we live in a health area have a new health center or a new or renewed hospital; a public health that made history's greatest investment in health technology. It's a public health, ladies and gentlemen, where there are many more rights for citizens, who are the owners of public health. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, 10% more budget than when you were ruling, having now less budget — EUR 1 billion — than when ruling the Bipartite. [[Applause]] There are a few percentages of the budget of five more points — as a percentage — than when the Bipartite ruled. Like there's fewer professionals? There are 2,353 more workers in public health, 6.5% more. Family doctors and pediatricians, 5.5 % more. Nursing staff, 778 plus, 8% more nursing staff. What about your surgery? About 37% more surgery, 72 more surgery. What's that supposed to mean? He assumes 34,000 surgical operations more a year than when he ruled the Bipartite. Ladies and gentlemen, we are proud. But not the Government, but the Greek society. Why, when the Central Government polls do the health barometers this year, last year and previous years were the best years of our history? Why? But not only in general matters, not, not, but specifically in primary care and emergencies. In primary care, when you ruled, the level of satisfaction was 84%, now 88.5%. When you ruled, the level of emergency satisfaction was 78%, now 84.7%. Ladies and gentlemen, exactly what are we accused of improving public health? I accept the accusation. That we have to keep improving public health. I have no problem accepting it, of course. First, to see if it's true that there's a state solution for public health. An extraordinary call from MIR is what we propose, and now I have to listen to the opposition that public job offers have to be called. Is this a joke or is it just a contradiction in terms? Ladies and gentlemen, we are proposing the elimination of the replacement rates, and I am listening to the opposition that must increase the replacement rates. Look, I'm not making it up. Newspaper The country of five days ago: "Public health has a deficit of 4,000 doctors". But, Mr. Leicega, do you devote yourself to something the Socialist Ministry of Health? Yeah, I'm sure in the replica you'll explain to me what. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Ladies and gentlemen, during the Bipartite years four health centers in Galicia have been killed in four years! We have built 54 health centers and 25 health centers are running. Ladies and gentlemen, we've improved professional salaries, increased professional careers, extended retirement, made the state's widest public job offers. [[Applause]] And when you tell me about establishing a contract in better conditions for family doctors, I agree, absolutely, Mr. Leicega. And that's why we made a three-year contract.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u9	And you say it needs to be improved. Do you mean that when the medical unions, the CSIF, the UXT, the SATSE, and the professional schools give their visa and please this contract, is it a precarious contract, Mr. Leicega?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u11	By the way, can you tell me any socialist community that has a contract for family doctors and pediatricians of primary care like this one? Mr. Leicega, don't worry, I answered you. None. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u12	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pontón's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here again we have an example of prepotence, lies and a president who, when he has no arguments, the only thing left is insult, ladies and gentlemen, insult. This is Mr. Feijóo's portrait. [[Applause]] Because, look, if we weren't, because we're talking about something as important as health care, we could say that the only ridiculous thing is you coming to Parliament, after you resign 26 primary care heads, that you're on strike in Santiago's emergency ward eleven weeks, that there are also stops called throughout Galicia in primary care, that you strike in the emergency transport service, the CAP on the way to war and the people in the streets protesting their cuts, to tell us that public health has never been so good. Why are all the professionals and the people of this country protesting then, Mr. Feijóo? Let's see if he can explain it to us, because of course it would be very, very important. [[Applause]] And, look, who denigrates public health is you, who is becoming a terminator that all you want to do is privatize and destroy the public health system. And that's all because he's defending private interests in the health of this country. Whoever denigrates public health is who cuts EUR 2 billion in primary care, Mr Feijóo. Because in your budgets today, at the base of entry of the health system, which is primary care, you have 188 million euros less. And, look, sometimes it would be nice if you told us where to get the figures from the staff in Sergas, because the memories that come to this Parliament and that accompany the budgets, what they tell us is that, since you rule, there are 1,429 workers and workers less in Sergas. And you know what's more serious? That, after cutting down all these personal years, those same memories that we're told is a 505 square stroke for the year 2019. Mr. Feijóo, stop fooling people, that's what our country's budgets contain. [[Applause]] And, look, don't be a sneaker. Extraordinary MIR? Go ahead. Tell us how much personal he's qualified, how many squares he'll call. How many pediatricians are there in primary care qualified for MIR training? Tell us, because that doesn't depend on the Ministry, it's up to you and I think maybe you haven't. Select replacement rates? We've already told him that we've been asking for him for ten years. Welcome! Maybe the one who has to convince is the People's Party, who applied them and imposed them from the state invading Galician powers. [[Applause]] And finally, Your Honor, stop avoiding your responsibilities, because you can't come here laughing at all in Parliament with interventions like what you just did. Are you going to call, if or not, those 6,067 vacant squares in Sergas? And secondly, will you, yes or no, put in place a plan for improving primary care with 200 million euros that leaves the cuts behind? Because with less, Mr. Feijó, it gets less. And of course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u14	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u15	...I suppose it's a joke — and I'm finished, Mr. President — to tell us that the great solution to precariousness is a contract that allows you to impose on workers and health workers a 31-hour day's work. How do you think a person can work 31 hours in a row?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u17	Or how can you think that's good health care?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u19	The majority unions did not approve this model. You know why? Nor do professionals want it, because it's precariousness, precariousness and more precariousness.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u21	Stop destroying the public health system, Mr Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u22	Thank you. Mr. Fernández Leicega's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u23	You know perfectly well that the problem in the commission was that you didn't want those who had something to say about public health, professionals that we wanted them to come. You said no, introducing unacceptable censorship. Absolutely, absolutely! [[Applause]] They know very well. But I don't want to focus on that, what I want to know is what your attitude is about the necessary changes in public health. You think everything's okay and there's nothing to change or you're willing to change things? What is the depth of your commitment to the necessary change in public health? Look, I'd be very happy here if you tell me that you're going to guarantee primary care doctors that they're going to have the necessary time to care; if you're going to commit that there are complete equipment in the CAPs depending on the demand that avoids problems of neglect with the consequences that we all regret; if you tell me that the stability contract that you're proposing is going to extend to other specialities where there are structural needs, such as anesthesia or trauma; if you tell me that you're going to push OPEs with sufficient dimensions to reduce the precariousness of the levels that the advisor promised yesterday and that there's going to be a monumental effort of stability; if you tell me that this stable and flexible contract — like the Basque Country, which is the model — is going to have the custody guaranteed, you'll have a radio of action that will allow doctors to have a reasonable life and there will be a progressive reduction of discretion; if you tell me thatyou 're going to restore primary careagencies. That's what I'm asking you to do, everything else is floral games, and it seems to me very well, you have to try to divert attention, but this is the important thing, it's your responsibility. And in relation to the MIR theme, look, can you tell me something? When do you ask for the MIR extension? In the year one of his government, in the year three, in the year five, in the year seven or a few months ago? And by the way, you know perfectly well that the last Minister of Health, the Government Rajoy, who said that no more professionals are needed — the medical gaceta of last year — had in his office, let's say in his ministry, five hundred and I peak applications for accreditation of teaching squares that have been stopped for a long time, which is what the Ministry has devoted to this time. [[Applause]] And you also know that in the MIR next year there will be an extension guaranteed by the minister if Galicia does its duties, that is, if it presents the documentation that allows, with accredited squares, these teaching units to increase. This is the Ministry's commitment, that's what they answered to your counselor when he went to Madrid — by the way, without reply from him because he couldn't give it to her. You rectify, change health policy, change the health policy of truth, in depth, and I believe that the citizens of Galicia and the health system professionals will thank you for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u24	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Close these questions by Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Pontón, I didn't give him a single insult. You, on the contrary, yes, always call me affectionately. He says I'm the terminator of health. You believe it's an excellent filmmaking taste, Mrs. Pontón, but the truth is, I'm not going to go into these disqualifications, which you already have the patent for. How can it be said that you cut health money when you have about 10% more money than you had when you were in government? How can you say we cut the staff if we have 1,500 more people working on health than when you were in government? How can it be said that we don't invest in public health if when you ruled four years ago you did four health centers and we take 54 plus 25, Your Honor? How can you say so many jokes in a constant and continuous way? [[Applause]] How can you say we have interests in private health and then propose to increase the budget to the entire private health of ambulances? Mrs. Pontón, do you agree to increase private health spending, that is, in the ambulance service? Obviously, the whole Parliament has just listened to it, and if we increased it, it would come here saying that we have increased spending on ambulances, that is, in private health. How can it be said that spending on private health increases if when you rule you have increased 44% of concerts, concerts with private clinics? Today, he just re-edited this question -- I don't know whether it's interested or not -- the Bipartite. BNG and PSOE claim public health together. That's right. Not a single reference to what the Bipartite made except for my friend Leicega's timid phrase about what the previous president did, about which one. Do you know why you don't talk about Bipartite data? Is it because the Bipartite waiting lists were the biggest in history? Is it because the number of interventions in tomorrow's hours in public health surgeries was falling? Yes, Your Honor, why didn't they invest in technology? Will it be, Your Honor, because instead of making new hospitals we had in Vigo a building in the center of Vigo I don't know how many plants where there was no room for anything? Will it be, ladies and gentlemen, because they didn't invest in hospitals or make plans for reform or enlargement? Is it because Ferrol wasn't interested in them and Pontevedra wasn't interested, neither did Ourense, because in Vigo there wasn't a single square meter to make the public hospital? It will, Your Honor, simply because today public health is much better than when the Bipartite managed it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's the conclusion, Mrs. Pontón and Mr. Leicega. Yes, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u26	Mr. Losada, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u27	Mr. Leicega, why do you want to dynamize the union agreement on the stability contract for residents? Why? Why, since most unions agree, do you come here to dynamite it? Do you have any particular interest? Look, ladies and gentlemen, here always, for ten years we've been in Parliament, ten years we've been in government, there's always two theses. During the summer it's the forest fires; and during the year, the sanitary fires. These are the two opposition proposals, you don't make any opposition to this government, they just oppose the country's forest fires and the issue of health, exclusively. They're not interested in anything, ladies and gentlemen, they're not interested in being serious about anything. [[Applause]] And what is surprising is that, for the first time in the history of a parliament, I suppose from a European parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u28	Mr. Losada, I call you by order. You have a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u29	...the opposition proposes committees of inquiry and opposition do not appear in the committees of inquiry. And if this had been little lack of respect for democracy, little lack of respect for Parliament, little lack of respect for the Greeks and the Greeks, you aggravate that lack of respect by constituting a Bolivarian commission. Yes, Your Honor, a Bolivarian commission trying to use the seat of the Greek Parliament simply to mock the Greek Parliament. [[Strong murmurers.]] That's it, ladies and gentlemen, your proposal. [[Applause]] I'm sorry to tell you, Mr. Leicega. First, because the truth is, I was surprised that you were subject to that party discipline, I'm telling you the truth. Because, look, the ones who command here are the Greeks, he's no leader of the Socialist Party in Vigo. We send the Greeks to Parliament, Your Honor. And Parliament is for something. If you want to close it, tell him. Of course, the Government will continue to come here and this parliamentary group will continue to appear. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I know, Your Honor, that you have no respect for Parliament. [[Strong murmurers.]] The Spanish Socialist Workers' Party of Galicia has nothing to do with the German Parliament during this legislation, none at all, absolutely, Your Honor. There you are! [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Leicega, if you were to pay attention to what we are doing — which is obviously not — you would know that we are creating a primary health care management in each area. And we're working on the budget of primary and specialized to make it clear exactly the division of expenditure in primary and specialized. We're trying to realize the new roles of primary care, doctors', nursing's, general service staff. We are intensifying the relationship between primary care and specialized care. We're reviewing the emergency model in primary care. Do you remember those documents they left in the Government that said the CAP number was excessive? Do you remember the planning of the Government's continuing two-party focus points, the fact that the CAP number in Galicia is excessive, are ineffective, are inoperative and needs to be reduced? It's the proposal of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and the BNG for public health, and that's what's called "PAC in war." Tell Mrs. Pontón to look at the Socialist Party document. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, we're taking precedence over permanence in difficult-covered squares, we're considering the competitions for transfer contests in squares that are being handled by nursing specialists. We're weighing the coupons, and how the coupons are paid. It is not the same for a thousand patients with 20% of those patients over 75 years of age than for 5% of those patients over 75 years of age. Just like the pediatric coupons. Ladies and gentlemen, we are sitting with scientific societies, with all those who want to work for public health. The only one who is, unfortunately, again criticizing mercilessly, with lies and with falsehoods the public health is the opposition.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u30	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u31	Look, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to improve public health for citizens — with more benefits — and for professionals — with more wages, with more careers and with more squares. He says we take all the squares. But if the Budget Act prevents all squares in a single year! And now I just heard that the MIR policy of the Ministry of Health is perfect. Mr. Leicega just said it. I suppose the debate will come to an end, then. If what the Ministry of Health does about accreditation and the number of MIR squares...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u32	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u33	...it's right, then, ladies and gentlemen, the problem in public health in the country is over. In any case, Mr. Leicega, since you ask me questions from the investigation committees you don't give, I suppose the next question will be something about the Marishin.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u34	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u35	I suppose, Mr. Leicega. I understand, Mr. Leicega, that for you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u36	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u37	... lately the spokesperson of the group is a no-effect appointment. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u38	Thank you, your time is up. Thank you. [[Mr. Fernández Leiceaga asks for the floor.]] What do you want the word for, Mr. Leicega?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u39	It is clear that in order to ask Mr Feijóo to withdraw his words on the relationship between the Socialist Party and Parliament. I could tell him that he at the investigation commission acted like Maduro, preventing opponents from his politics from being able to express themselves. But I'm not telling him.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u40	Thank you. Next question. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please! Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Villares Naveira, G.P. of Terrestrial, about the cuttings in the rights of citizenship
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u41	Mr. Villares has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Mr. Núñez, we have come here today to bring a complaint, once again, about the cutting-off of rights to the whole of citizenship in our country. And I'm going to focus on two aspects that are related to each other. The first of them, which has to do with cutting rights in the field of health, is related to the questions of previous speakers, but it has a differential shade. I would like to begin by saying that between his previous appearance here in Parliament and that he mediated two mass demonstrations in Vigo that drew more than 80,000 people on the street, a mass demonstration in Compostela that drew more than 10,000, and countless concentrations in front of primary care and emergency services throughout the country claiming the dignity of essential public services for the maintenance of the health of our country, our people. The People's Party took years and years to react, and now I fake a reaction, I fake a rectification, which is not really being so because you're not responding to the demands of professionals and patients themselves. In this sense, we are living in a situation of real health abuse caused by the Galician Union not only to professionals but to the whole of citizenship; a deliberate health abuse, it is not a clumsy management of public resources. There is a deliberate act to do two things with public health: firstly, to cut public resources available to the public administration to restore people's health, thereby deteriorating public health and forcing people to march to private health; secondly, by diverting the few and few existing resources into public health to private health, so that what they had to serve to meet people's health needs is serving for the benefit of a few private companies. This turns the situation into a situation of real health abuse that it offers, which dispenses, the Galician Union to the country as a whole. Insufficient resources to resolve waiting lists, to solve emergency crashes. Equality between women and men is mistreated when the perspective of gender in health policies is not applied, when one is diagnosed late for being a woman, when one is under or overinterposed for gender bias, or when resources are cut into specific care for women's health. There are unsustainable burdens on professionals, lack of pediatricians, lack of adequate care for older people, excluded people, etc. But, in addition, there is a second question related to all this health exclusion that you are causing, which is also the cut-off of rights to freedom of expression related to health in two areas, in parliamentarians and in the civic exercise of citizens' rights. In the parliamentary field you complained that the opposition does not appeal to Parliament to that committee that we have asked for and we are not going. And we're not going for a reason: because you guys maliciously controlled the appearance of people who were essential to know what was going on with public health. You have vetoed the victims of their cuts, you have seen the relatives of the deceased person from the road CAP; a situation of ill-treatment and malicious denial of assistance that does not occur, for example, in other research committees, such as that of Alvia. Why are you here? Explain it, Mr. President. The policy makers who caused suffering in the case of hepatitis C were also vetoed, in the case of administrative and political officials who are currently being prosecuted for administrative prevarication and reckless homicide. You can say it's not because they're processed. But they allowed and encouraged them to attend people who are also being prosecuted in the Marine Commission. In that case they appeared with your consent and with your request. You also saw in this professional commission that they had a lot to say about the CAP on the foot of war, that they could give faith of what was going on in the emergencies and on the points of continued attention. By the way, some of them informed the Prosecutor's Office of the outraged death of people in the corridors of a completely saturated emergency room. In case this was little, it's also a policy of cutting public freedoms to which you are dispensed in relation to the strike of the health professionals themselves. And so if the convictions for their evil attitude happen...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u43	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u44	...in 061, at 061, at the emergency staff in Ourense. This behavior we understand is what justifies the People's Party's being comfortable by blessing a malicious trident who at this time stands out by Andalusia and who is eguilling public freedoms, women's rights and even questioning Galicia's self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u45	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u46	Mr. President. We just heard a third question together with two others. Look, I don't know exactly what I have to answer, because, research committee, tide incomprehensibility, PSOE and BNG question that I just answered in its entirety... You insist on clippings, on cuttings of rights to citizenship. And I wonder, what do you mean, Mr. Villares? Do you refer to the cuts in the rights of representation and electoral rights that all citizens have? Are you referring to the cuts in the right that the citizen has to be in a political party? Do you refer to the right of a citizen, when he is in a political party, to exercise his vote freely? You mean that, perhaps? Are you referring to the clippings in Galicia? Well, Mr. Villares, I'm not going to enter the internal fights of the Weirlands, but you'll know that the rights that are cut are in your organization, Mr. Villares. Because in Galician Union, far from cutting rights, we expanded them. I could say here that the mayor of Santiago cuts the social income and the aid to women because he does not execute the budget. You could say here that the rights of all citizens to free competition, advertising and competition are being curtailed in the Coruña, because most contracts are being awarded.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u47	Mr. Lago, I'll call you in order, too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u48	And you could say that in Ferrol we cut citizens' rights because we've been three and a half years and in Ferrol the investment of the Town Hall is 3.9 million euros in four years. I could talk about all those cuts. Do you know what's going on, Mr. Villares? I'm not going to get into the trap, I'm not going to get into the trap of talking about how your party and your political enemies are inside your party. You just have to look at the seats around him. The one around him wants to go with Bildu and the BNG to the Europeans, the one next seat doesn't want to know anything about the tides, and the Mareas mayors don't want to know anything about you. On health, disrespect is constant and continuous from the Tides, which do not even have the right to ask for health, for it is again full of lies. We just heard he was diagnosed late for being a woman. And confirm it, indeed, very well. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, the Euro MP of En Marea, whose greatest approach to public health was to question the vaccines, indeed, convened a conference the other day. At that conference it was a person who was self-denominated as president of the Galician Public Health Defense Platform — by the way, a city's Tide Coordinator — and said — Leo — "The early detection programs of breast cancer were done for the interests of insurers, were excessive and could even be dangerous." [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, is this the Mares health policy? Not vaccines, not breast cancer screenings or cervix screenings. Is this the Mareas proposal? The tide proposals are just nonsense, a health nonsense, so you should be disabled to talk about public health for a while. But you again insist on another lie, that people die in the corridors in the emergency wards of Santiago Hospital. And besides, not only you, but all of the opposition. You're asked to attend here. Look, Your Honor, why do you lie so much, unlimited, without any kind of complex? They lie, using the pain of people, even using a death to try to extract a political legacy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u49	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u50	One of the patients died in an ICU and one of the patients died in a perfectly attended emergency box. Ladies and gentlemen, I am deeply sorry for what is being said here. Let me, Mr President, just read a paragraph of what the Spanish Emergency Society says: "What we find unacceptable is that patients die in our service without being cared for or because they are not cared for. It's a serious offense to professionals." Mr. Villares...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u51	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u52	...I believe that public health works much better than the Red Seas of Podemos. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u53	Thank you. Mr. Villares' reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez, it doesn't reveal anything new to us that you would like to disabling us as opposition so that we can't denounce your troops. It's nothing new. [[Applause]] But, look, here, the only ones disabled for politics were those convicted of their government in operation "Campion", the director and deputy director of the Igape, and his colleagues also from this bench in the Greek Parliament, precisely by prevarication, by trafficking in influence and by embezzlement of public leaders during their government, Mr. Núñez. They're the only ones disabled for politics by a court. [[Murmurs.]] Look, when you asked about the clippings, you had a little respect for the question and you told it, because it was quite clear. In the cuts in health rights there are two clear examples that were the ones that motivated that investigation commission. Or does it not seem to you like a cut that a person reaches the emergency room on the road, at a point of continuous attention, in an emergency service, and dies after an hour and a quarter without being cared for by a doctor, because there was no doctor? By the way, by violating the own legal regulations of the Health Council, which required two medical equipment. Is that a cut or isn't that? [[Applause]] We think so. You don't seem like it to us either, but we think so. Is it or is it not a cut that half a dozen people of hepatitis C died when there were medicines available to them in the pharmacies and were not released for accounting reasons and not for medical reasons? Is that a cut or isn't that? It wasn't a problem of the state of the technique, it wasn't a problem of the state of medicine, it was an economic problem for you to be able to count. And you, in exchange for the numbers, let people pass. For us that's a cut. It's not for you anyway. Look, a third example of cuts, in this case of freedoms, and it's seen that it's caused a certain blaring of the subject that we said about women's health care, because you care for women rather little. For that reason, yes, for that reason, ladies and gentlemen, when the feminist strike of March 8 was convened last year, Junta set up absolutely abusive minimum services... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u55	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u56	...which gave rise to a judgement by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia which says the following, among other things: "The imposition of the costs of the requested administration and without fixing a quantitative limit"—i.e., out of fear, which is what the law says is of this type of conviction— "is justified not only because the estimate of the appeal reaches most of the contested arguments expressed in the submissions, but also because of the reasons set out in the judgment" and I continue to read literally the judgment: "In this judgment a strong rejection of the malpractice of the administration is expressed, acting with unjustified delay in publishing the decree to fix minimum services, and also malicious behavior in setting minimum services in some areas of administrative activity." This is what women's rights care about, a malicious conduct to prevent them from exercising their rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u57	Mrs. Prado, Mrs. Prado! Call her in order, call her in order! I called her in order, Mrs. Prado. [[Strong murmurers.]] Close this question by Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u58	Mr. Villares, it gives me the feeling that your nervousness simply prevents you from listening to and understanding what you're saying. If I have no interest in disabling you! The problem is, everyone around him wants to disable it. No, you didn't understand the proposal, you didn't understand it. [[Murmurs.]] I know that when you have a problem, you won't let him vote. Or, when you have a problem and you're losing, you suspend the vote. [[Laughter]] That's a perfectly understandable technique in his ideology, but unfortunately it's also going to be incomprehensible in his biography. Again, the technique of lying and contempt: "Exemplify in a particular case, however grave its consequences are, the policy of cutting is not fair or reasonable from the point of view of scientific knowledge, to which we owe ourselves the doctors" — president of the College of Physicians of Galicia in the investigation commission you did not attend. [[Murmurs.]] That weekend you're talking about, the road, the doctors, the CAP staff in Galicia, served 14,000 emergencies; hospitals, 5,354 hospital emergencies; 150 surgical interventions and 4,500 diagnostic tests. And you're talking about a cut on the road. You are a Member who has not yet realized his responsibility. Your Honor, in the case of hepatitis C, 130 million euros invested in hepatitis C. We managed to treat 7,800 affected by hepatitis C. We are the second autonomous community with more investment in hepatitis C, and with more patients treated. And you're here again slandering hepatitis C. It's been believed that no one's left without paying attention to hepatitis C. If you don't even know what a pharmacy is! If the hepatitis C medicines don't show up in the pharmacies! But if what you have to do is at least document yourself, document yourself at least, Mr. Villares! [[Laughter]] Because, if not, it says barbarities like the ones we've just heard, that that pediatricians in primary care distinguish whether it's a child or a child, and that if it's a child, they care worse; that family doctors in primary care distinguish whether it's a woman or a man, and, if it's a woman, they care worse; that gynecologists don't know why we have them, because women don't take care of them; and that radiologists, if they have to do a magnetic nuclear resonance to a woman, they serve as a second category. But keep going, keep going, keep going! Do you have no limit to this proposal, ladies and gentlemen? Look, it's good to put things in context. His health spokesperson appeared in this gallery, in the center, with a T-shirt, and I read, "Chávez I swear to you, I vote for Maduro." How can you defend public health in Galicia and simultaneously defend the chavista regime, Mr Villares! And as someone who defends the chavista regime says, at the same time, there are cuts in social services in Galicia and in public health! The only social right in Venezuela is the right to misery, gentlemen. That is why we will never share their health policies, because their Bolivarian health policies have nothing to do with the policies of a free and democratic people who vote, who respect Parliament and who respect the government of the autonomous community. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, fortunately Galicia doesn't even work like the Venezuelan chavista regime or the Podemos tides, I can assure you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u59	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u60	If Galicia were ruled as the cities of the Podemos Seas are being ruled, there would be no social policy, because social policy is simply a mere speech. Not here, Your Honor, social policy is our first commitment. And I can assure you that if I feel proud of something and feel proud of the Government and this parliamentary group, it is that during the worst economic crisis we have had more social benefits than ever. And that, unfortunately, to the chavista regime disturbs him; and, of course, to his allies. Ladies and gentlemen, a little respect for the women of Galicia, a little respect for all women, who are the majority of those who provide health care in the Galician Health Service. A little respect, ladies and gentlemen, for the professional women of public health. [[Applause]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u61	Thank you, President. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Sorry, Mr. Leicega, I'm going to read an institutional statement, I think you've been warned. Institutional declaration on the memory of the Holocaust
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u62	Let's read an institutional statement that all the groups agreed on. And I really commend you for reaching this agreement. The statement I'm going to read is a statement about the Holocaust, and it says this: "On November 1, 2005, the United Nations General Assembly, at its forty-second plenary meeting, reaffirmed that the Holocaust, which resulted in one third of the Jewish people and countless members of other minorities being killed, will always be a warning to the world of the dangers of hatred, fanaticism, racism and prejudice. He also decided to designate January 27 as an international day of annual commemoration in memory of the victims of the Holocaust, all victims of Nazism, among whom are also Greek and Greek. The Holocaust is the result of a program of persecution, imprisonment and extermination, carried out by Nazism, which killed more than six million people. It was its origin in the attempt to eliminate political and ideological dissidents and resulted in a genocide, which was related to the collaboration of the Frankish dictatorship and which pursued thousands of men and women who fled the Spanish state after the defeat of the Republic in 1939 and after the establishment of a fascist regime. In particular, this Parliament would like to remind the more than ten thousand Spanish Republicans who ended up being deported to the Nazi camps by the collaboration of dictator Francisco Franco with German Nazism and Italian fascism. According to some historical sources, about two hundred of them were released, but they could never return because the Franco-Channel dictatorship, which had previously withdrawn their nationality, denied them the right to return to their countries of origin. For all this, the Galician Parliament echoes the statement by the General Assembly of the United Nations, in which all denial, whether partial or total, of the Holocaust as a historical fact, has been refused, and condemned without reservation — it condemns this Parliament as well — all manifestations of religious intolerance, incitement, harassment or violence against people or communities based on ethnic origin or religious beliefs, take place wherever they take place. The Galician Parliament notes, with the United Nations General Assembly, that the ignorance and disregard of human rights give rise to acts of abhorrent barbarism for human consciousness. The Galician Parliament, one more year, and in accordance with the letter and spirit of the declaration of 1 November 2005 of the forty-second plenary meeting of the United Nations General Assembly, calls upon the United Nations to work everywhere against possible outbreaks of racism, xenophobia, anti-Semitism or other discrimination based on ethnic origin or religious beliefs, and citizens and their organizations to remain vigilant so that no longer any regime like the Holocaust has produced can settle between us or anywhere in the world. Santiago de Compostela, January 30, 2019." Thank you all very much. [[Applause]] Now we continue with the agenda, with point 4 of non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the allocation by the Government of Greek human resources and necessary materials of the Emergency Service of the University Hospital Complex of Santiago de Compostela
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u63	There is a self-amendment of the group itself, and there are also amendments to the Socialists' Parliamentary Group and the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u64	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u65	Good day to all and all. First of all, I wanted to greet the professionals and the CHUS emergency service professional who accompany us from the rostrum, and who I suppose will be a little surprised, after the debate they have just heard, in which, apart from hearing how the president of the board disqualified the professionals who are denouncing the public health situation, because they would hear how health in Galicia is good and the opposition is bad. But the Greeks and the Greeks, and the professionals, what they are mobilising against the health policies of the People's Party. They're not currently mobilising against the opposition. That's what we're seeing. [[Applause]] I also think they could see that when the wise man marks the moon, the fool looks at the finger. And the Greeks and the Greeks, and the professionals, are pointing to the dramatic situation in which public health is. The CHUS professionals have been reporting for not days or months, but for years, what is the situation of the CHUS Emergency Service and asking for solutions. And we see how the president of the Union is about all those efforts to vilipend his finger. He wants to cut off the finger that points to the problem, instead of solving the situation, instead of looking at the moon, which is the problem. No, put your efforts to cut off your finger, which is what's pointing to the problem. They've been here representatives of workers and workers on several occasions. And I'm going to refer to the month of April, in which — I say — years after denouncing the situation, asking for solutions, they found that theoretically they were taken note by the management of the centre, by the agency. But, after taking note, of saying yes, that there was a problem, the solutions never came. Having had enough of this situation, they made contact with the parliamentary groups represented in this Parliament so that we could echo the situation in favour of it being resolved. We have already brought your demands to this Parliament, and we have echoed their situation. We moved here the initiatives, came to this Parliament and found that they were not heard either. And they were found with the absolute dispelment by the Members and Members of the People's Party, who voted against the initiatives that called for solutions to their problems, in view of those initiatives that showed the lack of resources, the lack of personnel, the lack of means, and that they demanded a solution to that situation; and with the absolute dispelment by the Counsellor, who, besides making an account of what the emergency situation was, of how many professionals there were, of the ratios, what he later said is that the assistance demand requires a reinforcement according to the specific needs — i.e., that, at most, if he had done some reinforcement from time to time — and that, in the following days, they would continue to value, that there is a manager in the hospital who has frequent meetings with the workers, with the union representatives, who would continue to assess the needs — as I say — not only a month a day, week, and week, with what they would consider at every time needed in this and at any other hospitals. I mean, no answer to the problems that workers and workers posed. Because in the face of this situation, in the face of the despair of being in an emergency service where the situation was no longer worrying but that it was becoming dramatic, where at that time, months ago, we denounced the situation of permanent beatings, where we had already reported that there were complaints in the Prosecutor's Office about the situation of patients who were deteriorating in the emergency services, and that, fruit of this deterioration, then, in fact, they did not actually die in the corridors but died in the cubicles fruit of the deterioration that they suffered in the corridors without paying attention. We denounce all that situation, which has not been heard by the Government of Greece, by the Members and Members of the People's Party. And they decided to take one more step and go to the strike. This week they're on their twelfth week off. On November 12, a strike broke out. And I have to denounce here that professionals are forced to come to limited situations for solutions; that they have been creating gristling between staff for months, and that they have not wanted to meet their demands for lack of staff, lack of resources and lack of professionals. He didn't hear his demands for the management, he didn't listen to the demands here in Parliament. The parliamentary groups, the BNG, echoed their demands. And they didn't want them to be able to explain their situation in the official commission of investigation, because it was the vetoes, which the People's Party didn't want them to be part of those people who had come to attend the commission of investigation. But the opposition groups do listen here at parliamentary headquarters, in the royal commission, where the real problems of Galicia's public health are heard. And if representatives of the CHUS emergency services came here to talk in this Parliament about what the real health situation was. We were told that the CHUS emergencies were a warehouse of patients, where nothing should wait, but everything ends up waiting because they don't solve; where there are no beds, there's a stay of patients up to 48 hours, where there's a personal shortage, where there's massification, and where there's collapses, where they can't take the exceptional rhythm permanently, where there's 20% of sick leave and 19% of assistants. We have been told that there is an increase in risk of making mistakes, which makes it difficult for the relationships between workers and workers, which causes the climate of continued hypertension to grow among them, that they have to go over issues as basic as the intimacy of the patients; that the slogan continues to be prioritized and prompt continuously; that they have to do clinical interviews in the corridors; that they do not always ask for informed consent, for that continuing trouble in what they do work; that risk prevention is science fiction at most times; that the rights as workers are trampled systematically; that complaints and suggestions are not listened to by their superiors, when they have to be so; that there is a demand for service is obvious because 46 percent of the staff category has no fixed convenience; that there are structural and medium problems; that the CHUS emergency dimension has never been increased and has not been dimensioned accordingly; that there is obsolete material; that there is a demand and demand demand is used more frequently; that there are preferred means, that the bureaucracy has no fixedness; that there is a solution. And they reported here at parliamentary headquarters — it is recorded — that there are patients who deteriorate in corridors because of lack of assistance, because they cannot pass them to cubicles where they can be explored and can determine what kind of care they have to receive, and that, as a result of this deterioration, they die. That's recorded, that's reported in the prosecutor's office. And in the face of that situation, instead of listening, instead of heeding, instead of answering the demands, instead of giving solutions, here it is intended to vilipendi and not listen to the one who denounces the situation, it is intended that the situation is not known. But the bad thing is that you don't know what's going on, the bad thing is that it's happening. The grave thing is not known, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the grave thing is that it is happening, that is the grave thing. [[Applause]] And how do you call knowing what's going on, knowing what's going on, not acting; knowing that people's health and lives are at stake and not acting, and trying to hide what's going on? Of course, at least it's neglect; at least it's irresponsibility. And at least in front of that, knowing what's going on and not listening to the workers, they call themselves accomplices. And the workers and workers have been telling them for a long time now that they won't remain silent and silent, because silence makes us complicit and they're not ready to continue to be complicit with their silence. That's why the BNG brought initiatives here. It brings here today an initiative that is, not least, its demanding table, that they listen to and accept the demanding table, which is the development of a functional plan; the creation of working groups; the staffing of the number of professionals in each category with the necessary number, not for a patch, not for reinforcements, but to go to solve the problem...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u66	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u67	...in a permanent way, not when they're with water up their neck but in a permanent way that allows them to work with a minimum of normal conditions and meet with a little dignity the patients who arrive; and material replacement, with 100 percent replacement. Because the proof, Mr President, that they are working on minimum conditions is that, in a situation of strike, the minimum is 100 percent of the staff. I mean, that's proof that it's more than enough for the staff you're working on. I hope that the People's Party will be able to rectify and vote today in favour of the initiative presented by the BNG, which is nothing other than the staff table for the Emergency Service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u69	Thank you, President. First of all, I want to greet the workers who are here today and who have to observe Mr. President talking ridiculously. How did it go, Bolivarian commission, you said? Yes, I understood that there was a certain problem with the designation of some meetings that are made: "illegal commission", "Bolivarian commission"... same as the PP actually preferred it was that we called it "B commission". But then they would fill the room and they would all come to ask. [[Applause]] Of course, that would be better. [[Applause]] If the problem is the name, it wouldn't be the problem either. This is ridiculous. Since we're talking about the state of the CHUS emergencies, by setting a target, the day that there were professionals reporting in the prosecutor's office that patients died in CHUS — probably because of some saturation, that the professionals met as much as possible but that sometimes felt overwhelmed by the ineffectiveness of the managers in providing resources — the same day that this was denounced in the prosecutor's office, the counselor spoke, in that PP commission, of vaccines. The same day that there were strikes in the CAP, I was talking about a child's vaccination program — which is very good, but maybe it was more urgent to talk about something else. When you spoke here in this Parliament about what happened in the road CAP, the doors were locked — the first time that has happened in a very long time —. It's true that someone did the ridiculous thing, but it's pretty likely that whoever did the ridiculous thing is the same thing that you want to hide and don't show up, that says that professionals are stupid. By the way, they're calling the professionals fools, with those words, "boyfriends." So when they talk ridiculously, remember -- if they want to defend public health -- that when public health in this country has been promoted -- what is done with the laws -- you voted against; that when professionals go out to the street, you tell them to go out to the street because they wear sandwiches and buses. [[Applause]] When you say there's ridicule in public health, you remember that there are professionals worrying about how patients are treated, and you come up here to give data that contradicts your own data, but fill your mouth with the words that guilt is always someone else's fault. [[Applause]] When they talk ridiculous they look a little bit in the mirror, which is much easier to find out who's making the ridiculous. There's a situation where... you see, people don't strike for sport, they don't get up in the morning and they want to strike. The CHUS emergency professionals have been on a strike for weeks, and all they're getting is losing rights, because they're giving up rights, not to anything of attention, which is perfectly covered up to where the human body gives -- and sometimes something else -- They're losing rights only for claiming what they deserve. And you, when you look at a collective losing rights on their own, you call them fools, you insult them. And did you then defend public health, which you're constantly insulting? What happened here recently in this health system, with what happens in the CHUS emergencies and the complaints that have been made, was truly regrettable. I had never — indeed — seen a government, when there is an accusation, a doubt or such a serious problem, go out furiously against the professionals who denounce it. Because the ridiculous thing is to think that it's much better to solve the media problems and get out well on the photos than to solve the problem that happens in the health situation. And, I'm telling you one thing, if you're worried about pictures, watch out for who leads them. Because your leader has a historical problem with the photos. You have a historical problem with the photos! [[Applause]] Be careful with the photos! [[Applause]] Moreover — and I will be allowed the chascarrillo — to come to this commission of the People's Party to come and take a look at it and take everyone away so that it would appear in the middle, in the middle, not on the side. [[Applause]] It must be because they didn't even want to put the picture next to it. He failed to show up for plasma. Don't tell me anything ridiculous! That he's a little bit of a joke that he's been changed to his chair where he had to... because he's the president, of course! They failed to take their petals off when they came in. But, finally, this is the model that you have: professionals dignifying your profession, defending your profession, renouncing your rights for defending your work, asking for very sensible proposals to improve your services, and you insult them and come here to defend that this model is very good because the rankings say it. And by the way, I remind you that the first country in the world in the rankings you like is Cameroon. We don't want Cameroon's health model, no. We don't even want the President of Cameroon, who is 85 years old. That gentleman thought it was much better than he had been passing on to other people. It's likely that Feijóo likes Cameroon's health models, or Hong Kong. We want an efficient health model such as what has been promoted by public health laws — but you voted against — and what the professionals — who you insult — promote. By the way, they listen to professionals because I'm afraid that in Santiago you're paying attention to someone who has enough to hide and very little to solve. And that doesn't solve anything in public health. Stop looking for the photos and solve some problems.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u70	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u71	Listen to the professionals, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u72	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u73	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. I also greet the CHUS emergency teammates. I want to begin my intervention by making a reflection. Opposition gentlemen, it's not all good. We cannot come here to Parliament with accusations, missing the truth, alarming and constantly insulting. The Greeks and the Greeks don't deserve this show. They chose us to represent them in the House and try to solve problems, reach agreements, solve situations. Questioning and criticizing, yes, of course, yes, of course; but constructively, not putting firewood, which is what seems to occur on too many occasions. I appeal to the responsibility of all political groups. We are faced with a worrisome problem that we all wait and hope that it will be resolved as soon as possible: a strike that has been held for too many weeks now, we are in the twelfth, in the Emergency Service of the CHUS, a service of a reference hospital for many generations of Greeks that keeps a high degree of prestige and that receives prizes every year for its efficiency -- does not say the People's Party, say it to the press, receives lots of prizes every year. Let us not lose the perspective — it is important — that we have excellent health, with universal coverage, from which all Greeks must be proud. At least that's how I feel. We know that a number of proposals have been made by your agency to reach agreement with the workers in order to improve the working conditions of the professionals, increase the staff picture and provide a solution adapted to the different demands of care for patients. I'm not going to read them because it's been debated here as well as in the committee. Yesterday we heard and read the news that the last proposal made by Sergas was positively appreciated by the workers, and it seems that today they are holding a meeting. We hope and hope that today will come to this so-called agreement between the Power and the workers, because this will benefit them all. Agreements, negotiations and will by the Council of Galicia and Sergas are not missing. There are some historians, such as the agreement with all trade unions represented at the trade union table to put in place the wage increases of the professional career, which since this very month of January are already on the payrolls of all professionals. And besides, this agreement will allow for the first time that the interiors also have access to this recognition. The agreement signed a few days ago between the Health Council and trade union representatives at the sectoral table on the stable contract for primary and paediatric physicians is more of Sergas' negotiating attitude. It has been said on other occasions — and this has been discussed a lot — that emergency services do not have programmed activity and that they have a great variability of workload at different times of the year. By saying a note — and I'm not going to give any more information on the number of professionals per turn, the structure or equipment, and we all heard a few minutes ago the president of the board, who answered the question clearly and forcefully this morning about Welsh health -- only I'm going to say that 154,763 patients were treated in 2017 in the CHUS emergencies. But there's data that's interested in making clear and important. If the demand for care is very high, it is reinforced with more staff, according to needs. It's also important to say that professional staff have an adequate dimension to meet demand. And I repeat — because it is important to know and bear in mind — that whenever the demand for care is very high, it reinforces itself with more staff, according to needs. We have to tell the whole truth. Media wait matches perfectly the standards set by Manchester's selection system according to the assigned emergency level. Cannot be alarmed. In this and other health-related processes, many ink rivers are seen with inaccuracies, without criteria, which question and question the health we have. And this is a lack of responsibility on the part of those who make these kinds of statements. This is how this same week at Semes, the Spanish Emergency and Emergency Society, took out a communiqué that I invite everyone to read. The president has already said something, but I will read another text: "Our services also have operating criteria prioritising patients with more urgent diseases about banals. Not everything's worth in the media war. We want to convey a message of calm to the population. We ask our patients to use and use resources properly and to give priority to assistance. Be sure that they will be treated according to their priority, and immediately if they can condition their lives. That is our work and our duty in emergency and emergency services." We are aware that, even though we have one of the best health in the world, we must opt for excellence, and be alert to correct deficiencies and possible errors, that in services as dimensional as the Galician Health Service denies them would be a necessity. We bring a replacement amendment and we hope that they will accept it: "The Parliament urges the Galician Council to continue and speed up, as far as possible, the negotiation process with the Emergency Service workers to enable them to reach an agreement soon." We present this amendment because, if something has proven this group and this council...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u74	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u75	...is that with whom you want to build and improve our public health we will always be willing to talk, negotiate and reach agreements. We did it with the unions, with the professional career and with the new stability contract. We do this in the working groups created by Sergas to reform primary...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u76	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u77	...and we hope to be able to do it with the CHUS strike committee. We hope that opposition groups too will show this layout to the constructive dialogue, even if they have not shown it until now. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u78	Thank you. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u79	Thank you, President. I also greet the workers and the workers. And the truth is there's one thing I agree with, Mrs. Friend, although certainly for different reasons. Actually, it's not all right. And this morning we hear here a sack of disqualifications and lies transferred by the President of the Union who is ashamed to give you as President of the Council of Galicia. But we're used to it. That's precisely why In Marea didn't ask for attendance in the investigation commission, because, for what we have to hear, the truth is that, frankly, it is better to listen to professionals. And that's exactly why you've seen the professionals in the committee appearances, because they didn't want to hear the truth. And I'll remind you of one thing. There's a Supreme Court ruling that indicates the obligation to pay professional careers to the acting staff. And it's not a gift or something that the Galician Council had negotiated, it's a recent judgment and therefore you should take into account when assuming certain agreements. We will then have the opportunity, at the interpellation, to hear Mr Health Counsellor speaking of the complex that is the problem, at this point in the situation, of the different emergencies, of the continuing points of attention, of the country's emergencies, of the deterioration and lack of planning for fifteen years and cuts — yes, cuts — for ten years. Because the budget has been down for ten years, and then we'll talk about this. And that's the reality. We'll listen to him later through the health counsellor. But today, in fact, we are once again talking about the CHUS, because unfortunately — and I am sure that the parliamentary groups are committed to bringing this circumstance here every time it takes, Mrs. Friend — professionals have been on strike for two and a half months, an absolutely exemplary strike. I here today not only want animals and greet the strike, but move that we feel very proud and proud of a strike, that they support a strike, of two and a half months all professional categories of a service, a strike that is not to claim higher wages, that is not to claim better individual conditions, but to improve the situation of the service; therefore, a strike to defend the right to health of all Galicians and Greeks — in this case in the Compostela area—. [[Applause]] What Mr. President doesn't do, workers do when they're on strike to defend our rights. That's the reality. And so I'm proud and I'm also reflected in that sign, which... something is meant by the honourable Member of the People's Party, but it's seen that she doesn't have enough room in her group. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Internal fights are what they have. [[Pause.]] Watch out for the bull's and the berth's. [[Strong murmurers.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u80	Quiet, quiet! Quiet, please. We're talking about health, which is a serious matter. [[Murmurs.]] The other one's a joke, so let's go seriously, which is health. [[Murmurs.]] And there are guests.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u81	Actually, little joke about this. And the manager, who works as a public health censor, had in recent days withdrawn a sign in which we felt very identified, saying that the workers and the workers who are not the patients in the corridors because there is a strike, but they are on strike because the patients are in the corridors. The dignity of these benches is lacking, and the workers of the University Hospital Complex of Santiago de Compostela. [[Applause]] Strikes if they do, and even if you don't like them, because there are protests, because there are strikes, they have to stand. That's what he has to exercise the power to rule. And you have to make the means available. Because what can't be, when a professional comes out and complains that people die in a service without attention, without attention!, the entire media channel of the People's Party was loaded against this professional, charging against this professional. That's the reality, because they don't want to listen to professionals who denounce this kind of shortage, and not to attack public health, but to defend public health, to force you to be mediated to put more means; that today, by the way, they are insufficient, because it's not only useful to put some reinforcements, not only to fix the two professionals who have hired months a month, but rather to put more means, more professionals to prevent that from happening, to prevent someone from dying again who has not been cared for in due time. And, Mrs. Friend, you plough what you want in your chairs. The person who died, one of the people who died, died because it was not attended in time, because it was qualified as serious and because it had to be resuscitated, after getting worse, in a corridor, Mrs. Friend — and exceeding the time it has to be treated as serious — a qualified patient. That is the situation that is reported in the Prosecutor's Office. Because you keep looking elsewhere and saying that nothing is going to improve the situation, not only a lack of dignity for workers and public health workers, but also a lack of dignity in which many people are cared for. They're on strike, they're on strike to defend precisely those rights of ours. So, less regret and less talk about excellence. At least talk about dignity for staff at work.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u83	I want to begin by thanking the support expressed by En Marea and the Socialist Party for this initiative. We accept the amendment tabled by the Socialist Party. And I, in fact, Mrs. Friend, Member of the People's Party, regret that you persist in the speech. It seemed, at first, that I was going to rectify, saying that well, that we are all here for a solution. But then they try again to impose the story. He says he's about to build, to improve our public health, to those who are willing to negotiate... No, you're only willing with those who say amenable to your story, uniquely and exclusively. Because if the CHUS Emergency Service professionals are now with a proposal from the Power on the table that is approaching, which is approaching, to their demands, it is not for the negotiator's good will of Georgia or Sergas -- I have given him a little extract from the counsellor's reply here almost a year ago -- but because they've been on strike for twelve weeks, because they're not willing to accept patches and because they're willing to fight for what it takes for public health in condition and to give decent assistance to patients entering the door. And they're not willing to accept the health that you're offering them -- yes, yes -- because of that situation. Because after they had brought it up to suggest that it was insufficient, that it was unworthy, that they couldn't be giving the treatment they were giving, on their backs, on the back of the professionals, Mrs. Friend, you can't support health care. They are currently studying a proposal, but it is not yet the proposal that workers and workers are demanding, because, indeed, if they are about to reach an agreement, why can the People's Party not vote in favour of Sergas accepting the People's Party's proposals? Look, it seems to us a joke that the People's Party, after months on strike and years in demand, can "continue to speed up as much as possible the negotiation process." Keep agitating. But how dare they put these things? In any case, if you really wanted to get on the side of the workers and workers for once, you could say, "Agile negotiations so that a deal can be reached and the demands of the workers and workers are met." How much do you like to say that the demands of workers and workers are met because they're fair? I mean, are they capable of saying that? Let the demands of the workers and workers of the CHUS Emergency Service be met because they are fair, because they allow them to provide decent health care. [[Applause]] Aren't they able to say fair demands of workers and workers? Well, it's as simple as that. So, if they're able to do that, then we'll come to an agreement, a transaction...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u84	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u85	...to meet demands that are fair. It seems so simple to us. And of course, I don't know how many times they come here and they're not able to listen on their side, from the People's Party bench, to say, let's stand by your side. That's exactly what you claim. You can't be in this situation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u86	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u87	Corrigendum. Rectification is of wise men, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, rectification is of wise men. And if you're in that situation right now, it's because you've got, thanks to your efforts, to outsource the situation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u89	...that there is a public alarm that is in the media and that the population knows what's going on. And you're losing your battle because nobody's believing nothing's going on in public health, everybody knows what the patient situation is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u90	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Thank you very much. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Paula Prado del Río and eight other Members, on the performances to be carried out by the Galician Union in order to facilitate the clarification of the accident that took place at the festival The Marisquiño in the city of Vigo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u91	This motion for a non-legislative amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u92	To defend the non-law proposition, Mr Pazos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, when I decided a few years ago, not too many, to devote myself to politics, to public affairs, I suppose, like everyone else, I would have a series of motivations. I still remember them today: a certain respect for citizens and their needs; a certain respect also for the institutions that represent us; and also because I have a certain respect for the truth. Today we bring an initiative here because I honestly believe that citizens are not being respected, I sincerely believe that institutions are not being respected, in particular this Parliament, and I believe that the truth is not being respected in relation to the Committee on Research on the Marishin accident. Because, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think that citizens are respected, affected, when, during an event that should have a municipal license, the floor sinks under the feet of 467 people, the minimum that can be offered to those people and the whole of citizenship is an explanation. And when you miss a basic obligation like this, I think you're missing out on citizens and, in a very special way, on those affected. The Vigo Council has refused to set up an investigation commission on this sinister. He did, by the way, arguing that there is already a judicial investigation, which is curious, because, at the same time, he had no impediment to requesting an investigation commission in this house despite the fact that there had opened judicial proceedings on the same issue as they posed in that commission. But it seems that for some committees it's impediment and for others it's not. The judicial investigation, which we respect, of course, will determine whether or not there are criminal responsibilities. I don't know what the judge is going to say. I don't know if he's going to say there's criminal responsibilities or no criminal responsibilities, but I do know what he's not going to say. What you're not going to say is that it's normal the sinking of a public street during a public spectacle, that's not going to be normal. And if the judge determines that there are no criminal responsibilities, we're not going to accept as normal what for anyone is obvious that is deeply abnormal. Nor will the judge make contributions towards the future about how to improve legislation or the functioning of administrations to prevent things like this from happening again. That's why, after the Vigo Council's refusal, this parliament determined the creation of a research commission on Marisquiño, by the fact, driven by the BNG and En Marea groups and created in support of the reports of the legal services of this House. From that moment on — and that is why I say that it is lacking in this Parliament — the administrations governed by the Socialists are continually boycotting the normal functioning of this parliament and seriously lacking in this institution; and what I think is even more serious, all of this with the convolence of the Socialist Group Members, of this House. I believe that there is a lack of respect for Parliament when it is denied legitimacy to investigate the enforcement of a law passed by Parliament itself. It turns out that, according to the socialists, Parliament can promote and approve the Law of Public Shows of Galicia and lay down obligations for the municipalities; we can legislate the creation of a metropolitan area in Vigo and that these municipalities meet together; we can legislate the Law of Local Administration of Galicia; we can even ask, interested ourselves, push municipal mergers... but we have no right to verify that the legislation is complied with, because they say that we have to defend ourselves in local autonomy. Home!, if you fear that we here are going to determine the cessation of the mayor of Vigo, you don't have to have that fear, we already know we don't have that capacity. But I believe that if we have the ability to investigate whether a corporation is complying with an approved law — by the way, without any vote against — in this Parliament. I believe that Parliament is not respected when access to documentation is denied, which should be universally accessible to any citizen, in the name of a law, transparency, that you invoke very much and practice little. I believe that Parliament is not respected when questions are raised about the capacity of the House of Wales to apply for appearances. Why are you questioning only the capacity of the Welsh House, gentlemen? Now we were aware that Minister Batet has requested a report from the Council of State to determine whether there is a requirement on the part of municipal representatives to attend a committee of Parliament, the Parliament of Galicia, because it seems that this is not an obvious thing for municipal officials to appear in other parliaments. Let me give you a brief and recent report. Year 2017, Madrid Assembly, Commission for Research on Political Corruption of PP in the Community. They compared six mayors and a vice mayor; four of these mayors came at the request of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party. Parliament of Navarra 2017, Commission for Research on the Biomethane Plant of the Ulzama Town Hall. Two former mayors, three ex-counselers, the mayor of Ulzama, the mayor of Odieta and two municipal officials of Ulzama, total nine, at the request of the Socialist Group. Corts Valencian, 2016, Municipal Aquifer Pollution Research Commission of the Ribera region. They compared 34 mayors and mayors at the request of the Socialist Group. You could follow: Asturias General Board, Murcia Assembly... Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, why is the Galician Parliament of a worse condition? Why have you ever considered asking for a report to clarify all these issues? Why do they practice cynicism with this slip. Parliament of Galicia, Research Commission on the alleged payment of travel to PSOE electoral agents with funds from the General Secretariat of Emigration and the employment of these agents with funds from the Labour Council, in 2008. They compare the mayor of Boqueixón, the mayor of Carballo and the mayor of Muxía on a proposal from the Socialist Group. The Committee on Research on the alleged cuts, of which there is so much talk about Greek health, on a proposal from the Socialist Group. I remind you that this commission is cohesive with the Marshal. The Socialist Group calls for the mayor of Burela, the mayor of Monforte, the mayor of the Barco de Valdeorras and the mayor of Vilagarcía de Arousa. But what's the matter, that they can only show up and have an obligation to attend the socialist mayors to put together the Board and not to give explanations about the manganades that are going on in Galicia's largest council? [[Applause]] I know what to ask for respect in Vigo is complicated. How will you respect this camera from Vigo City Hall if your mayor is unable to respect your plenary session? Even today, the municipal group rose from the plenary because in three and a half years, the mayor, who has the obligation to preside over the plenary, has heard a single minute of the opposition's interventions. But with that regard to plenary, how are we going to ask Parliament to do so? Even today it is such a boycott that we have been aware that the Galician Government Delegation does not transfer the citations of this parliament to people who do want to appear voluntarily in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is lacking in this respect when it is intended to question the autonomy of the House of Wales by twisting in a spurious, partisan and unprecedented way the Minister's ability to request a ruling from the Council of State. Why this ad hoc report? Why not ask yourself about the obligation of local administrators to attend the General Courts? Don't wonder. Or, why don't you ask yourself about the autonomous administration's obligation to attend the general cameras? Don't ask, don't ask. Why? Because this isn't a report, this is Operation "Save the Knight Soldier." It's no more, it's no more. [[Applause]] And one begins to wonder what has to happen to make a socialist appear to give explanations in Galicia. We saw him last week, in the case of Mrs. Silva's sister-in-law. But what's the matter? For a socialist to explain, do you have to come to the trial or to the Chamber escorted by the police? Are you unable to practice that transparency that is so exacting to others? It's embarrassing! And so embarrassing is that now the last one is that a PSOE government is asking an institution chaired by an ex-president of the PSOE to make an ad hoc report to save his face to a PSOE mayor. Sorry! I tell you honestly, I believe that any Member who goes through this House's dwindling should immediately resign. I'm totally serious. They don't respect the truth; this is the worst, you're not respecting the truth. Because to justify the boycott in Parliament if you are lying to the citizens of Vigo: mind the safety councilman, mind the mayor and lie when they say they have complied with the law or when they say they have made the documentation available to the Popular Municipal Group. Look, something we've already achieved in the progress of this committee. Company statement, company representative: we have license. You can check the file with your signed license. Let's see who's signed. A statement in the reply, after we told him I wasn't; we have her for administrative silence. Statement by the concierge Font en Vigo: you cannot have a license because there is no global license to support this activity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u94	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u95	I'm done. The company: we have and we present a liability insurance. Council: there is no civil liability insurance. Company: I assure you that we present the mount certificates for each installation. Town Hall: There is not a single installation mount certificate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u96	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u97	Company: I assure you we present certificates of connection to the Electric Network. Town Hall: no certificate of connection to the Electric Network. Assures the entrepreneur that he has a limited society.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u98	Thank you, you have another shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u99	Vigo Town Hall: Treats authorization as a popular verbena. I honestly think there are too many questions that are running out of answers. I ask you to reflect, to support the powers of the House which represents all the Greeks and to defend this House from the abuses of a government which has no regard for it. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u100	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u101	Good morning. I'd like to ask you a question, Mr. Paz, it's out of curiosity. You rehearse in the mornings in front of the mirror, don't you? Because... of course! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u102	I did, I did. I did.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u103	I say it because I learn, because it really demonstrates a disposition like this here... as an actor. Beyond the joke, I'd really like to give them advice, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Murmurs.]] Get out of the blade where they're messing with this thing! [[Laughter]] Get out of the tin of opportunism and the carnage you're messing with! They're giving a painful and lamentable show in the People's Party. [[Protests.]] They're using a tragedy, they're using the pain of the victims, who are asking for other things, for confrontation and for the party attack. They bring here a non-law-defended proposition, resense, against what they have always defended you. They say: there is no debate — and they veto the debate — on matters which are subject to investigation committees or judicial committees. Do you remember Alvia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? Do you remember Alvia? Of course! Coherence doesn't go with you, we know. At this point, we're already tired of knowing. It is logical to allow the Committee of Inquiry to move forward, and, in any case, as we have done in our amendment, that the Presidency of Parliament should demand all that is appropriate in the light of Article 44.2. I understand the nervousness, the despair, of the People's Party with which you are falling. With the number of streams of water that are open, with the holes that begin to exist in the grower chin, I understand nervousness and despair. Yes, yes, in Ourense for example, and in more places; in Pontevedra province, for example. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Behind all of this is the deep concern because he doesn't get his head off. He's out of water all over, applications everywhere, and they don't get their accounts. They worry a lot, for example, about the Deputy of Pontevedra, who sees her more and more in the distance, in infinity. I also understand the inconvenience of the People's Party in the tunda which it gave to you in last week's appearances, in the Research Committee, for example, the Festival Association, the Marisquiño organization, the Shows Producers Association, which, for example, spoke of the legal tide of more than seventy standards that govern everything that has to do with the processing of a festival. They said that the catalogue of shows — this is a big problem for this issue — is not updated, they talked about the complexity and difficulty of the contradictions of legislation, for example, as regards the Entrepreneurship Act and the Act of Shows. Look at what the Association of Festivals, Mr. Pazos said: In the poor drafting of the Entrepreneurship Act, which introduced the Act of Shows — the Association of Celebrations, the BNG does not say it — the types of events that must enter into a procedure or elsewhere are not sufficiently clarified: license or responsible declaration." To set an example. They also showed, by the way, the lack of participation in the processing of the law -- and they told him in the face -- that they didn't call us, they didn't consult us, they vetted the appearances requested by opposition groups. Look, at this point we have some clear things. The first is the lack of rigor and credibility of the People's Party, and its obsession, absolutely pathological and ill, with the municipal government of Vigo. They don't realize they're giving him ammo every time they talk about it; and they look elsewhere, curiously, when it comes to the responsibilities of other administrations, because you don't mention the Junta or the Port of Vigo for nothing. You're acting because of fanaticism and sectarianism. They don't say a word about the possible responsibilities of Mr. López Veiga, who has many, as it also came out in committee appearances. The difference between you, the BNG criticizes the Socialist Party's position, its refusal to participate in the commission; it also criticizes the Vigo Government's action; but it criticizes it in the same way, with the same force or more forcefully, the action of the Harbour Authority and the Administration of Galician Union. You have passed the brakes, both the Vigo People's Party and your spokesperson, who has been here in this Parliament, like you, and as you personally, when, for example, they accuse in an absolutely irresponsible and unfounded way that there is no insurance of civil responsibility. You've already made it clear to them the organizer of the festival. He told them that he was severely harmed by these unfounded accusations. They're irresponsible, for you they're all worth it. What you're doing, ultimately, is a manual on opportunism and demagogy, on the use of victims to try to win a vote, which I've already told you they won't make it. What they're doing, to us it's a shame, an indecency, and an immorality. And, I repeat, they laugh at the tin of opportunism and carnage! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u104	Thank you, Mr Bará. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Paisos Couñago, first of all, we also want to express a little bit of our perplexity with his exposure, but on the negative side and on the positive side as well. In particular, I discovered in you — in the presence of the spokesman of En Marea de Vigo, Mr Rubén Pérez — that there was a Member who was able to debate politically. That is one of the great contributions, of the few that we have, of the Committee on the Marines. In fact, today I was commenting with my colleague, Antonio Sánchez García, who has more experience than me in research committees, that many of the things you have moved here with regard to the transfer of documentation, to having regard to this Parliament, to having regard to the legislation, citizens and obligations of the public representatives, and that if it was not better to resign, we even said that we agreed with Mr Peace in something, and we don't know whether to worry or applaud what you're saying. But that speech that you have, it has to apply to all cases, not just to this case of the Marishkiño, which interests you partisanly, and which is not applicable to the other investigation committees. And look, I'm particularly interested in this case, so we're also critical of the fact that the documentation is not being submitted. We criticise, or rather regret, the fact that it is not the Socialist Party to be able to speak politically about these issues here, in Parliament, in relation to the responsibility of the Galician Council — which for that is this commission of inquiry — the responsibility of the Greek Government and, in particular, of the Harbour Authority, and its direct linkage to the liability of the accident, as it has been shown to you in the presence of last week's commission, and that I as a vigue, and as affected in a certain way by being asiduous to the Marishin, I am interested in resolving, because there are a number of causes and a number of measures for the future that we believe are fundamental to be held by the responsibilities of the Union and, of course, of course, the Council. What we don't like is that we want to use the Research Commission for use by the People's Party to try not to take on the responsibilities of the Harbour Authority, Mr López Veiga, and the Galician Union, and that we want to channel ourselves into an unbalanced attack and interested in the Vigo Council. Now, let's go to the fundamental part of the matter and our amendment, which we believe is important, because it seems that for the People's Party there are first commissions, second commissions, and victims of first and second victims. There is a rod to measure for the Committee on the Marines, but there is a very different rod to measure, for example, for the Committee on the cuts and the situation of the Greek health, which we regret deeply, because this takes away from you absolutely all the legitimacy for the argument it gave here in an unbalanced way. That's why we clearly say, in our amendment, the following, and I'm going to argue why we make this amendment: "The Greek Parliament urges the Galician Parliament to deliver all pending documentation to the various parliamentary committees of inquiry, as well as that pending response information derived from written questions or formulations of Article 9, in addition to demanding the delivery of the documentation requested to the various administrations in the course of the corresponding investigative committees." And I tell you, Mr Sánchez García, among many other Members and Members, that you will be very grateful that the Council of Galicia fulfils its responsibilities with this Parliament and with opposition groups which exercise their political rights in this House under the law. Because, of course, then we see the information from these digital newspapers that Mr. Feijóo doesn't like anything, and they say, "The board has not given the opposition half of the documents he has asked for in what is about legislature." I mean, from this legislation, although we're going to take a look at the previous ones. The Board did not give the opposition half of the documents it asked for in the matter of legislation, and this is already a German newspaper. 2013: "The Board retains 63% of the papers it has asked for the opposition in which it is legislated." Year 2015: "The Board has without handing over 95% of the roles that the opposition has asked of it since the end of summer." 95%! Europe Press, a means that pleases Mr. Feijóo the most: "In Tide resorts to Mr. Santalices" — we must always resort to Mr. Santalices — "to require the Board to deliver the letter of order on the merger of the boxes to KMPG" That's why I'm telling you to speak to Mr. Anton Sánchez, who will agree with you very much. That is, with what moral authority and with what little shame they come here to make this story, when they are the first affected to put themselves on the pillars, fulfill their responsibilities and dignify Parliament? I'm going to give you the list of part of the documentation that the Galician Board owes to our group in this legislation and that it has not been delivered. Copy of the environmental pact signed between the Board and the 11th of 2016. Sergas non-structural waiting lists on 12th 2016. On health checks conducted by the Board at the Ourense slaughterhouse. Copy of the draft cooperation agreement between Sergas and the Social Policy Council for its assessment of disability. Copies of the transcription of the contents of the calls received in 112 during the fires of 14 and 15 October 2017. About the agreements between Sergas and Medtronic. About the agreement between Sergas and the Vifor Pharma lab. About the hemodialysis concerts with Sergas. On the contract of the study service of technical solutions for improvement of the debugging process and debug station of Praceres. On the letter of order from the Galician Board KPMG for the elaboration of the accelerated diagnosis on the merger of the boxes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u106	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u107	I'm done. Information about the board of directors agreement allowing the merging of the boxes. About the copy of the documentation reached by the Galician Union to the Central Government that served to determine the supplements applied in relation to the fees for access to electricity. About the agreement between Sergas and Ronald Mcdonald Foundation. On the technical reports relating to the risk of overrun of the river Fntacova in Viveiro. Inspection records referred to the Valle-Inclán residence in Vilanova. There are 125 pending requests for referral and are you here to make this show? Really? I agree with you that all administrations have an obligation to forward the documentation... please! As a vicar, do your work at the autonomous level and stop putting your finger on the wound of those we're affected by the Marisquiño. They clarify the causes and responsibilities of the Union, of López Veiga, and stop using something so grave here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u109	Indeed, the show begins, Mrs. Prado. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u110	She didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u111	Don't you? Well, then excuse me, Mrs. Prado. Sorry, Mrs. Prado. [[Murmurs.]] The truth is, yesterday, when you spoke... I'm sorry, Mrs. Prado, they're explicitly requested. I don't have silicon, but I can squeeze a couple of knots if you need them. [[Laughter]] Yesterday the Vice President of the Union surprised us all by saying that Andalusia didn't matter, after ten months hearing about Andalusia even when we were discussing the width of the Cantabria! And, of course, this is moving forward. [[Laughter]] The truth is, in the People's Party, at last, the limits are remote. Look, Mr Pazos, when you did that reflection — without going into politics or not — a very respectable reflection, by the way, I imagine that we all are doing it here — you know how much better it is for citizens, not taking their money home. That's how much better it is for citizens to take them! [[Applause]] How best to respect citizens is not taking their money home. [[Applause]] And to Private Knight, do you know who saved him? Save 17 concelers of 27, the citizen vote of Vigo! [[Applause]] He likes you or not. [[Applause]] And only another precision. No street fell. I understand this absolutely Goebbels mechanism — and I will not withdraw it, I warn you, — used initially by President Feijóo and now for you. No street was sunk in Vigo!, a spring which is from the port of Vigo, Mr. Pazos. They don't lie, they don't insult Vigo's citizens; and, above all, they don't use the victims in a miserable way. That's what they have to do! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And now I'm getting into it. Look, Mrs. Elena Muñoz said practically the next day of the unfortunate accident: "the mayor did everything he could to make this accident happen" —textual. And, of course, the inclust mayor of Vilanova de Arousa — that of the chacha for everything, which I understand could be perfectly VOX or an advanced student of Mrs. Díaz Ayuso — said: "that dictator, the boss who almost kills four hundred people." They keep campaigning for the mayor of Vigo; I really appreciate it. Look, the proof of including on the agenda — in a legitimate way — an initiative registered on 20 August last year — that is, immediately after the accident — demonstrates how this investigation commission, and the entire political strategy of the People's Party in relation to the Marishin accident, is a failed instrument. In addition to an absolutely entrepreneurial theatre work and a masked politics, it's an absolutely failed instrument. It's a commission that's in the intensive surveillance unit and you need to react to it desperately every day, practically. I will quote some headlines: "The PP will act as a particular charge in O Marisquiño" — go!—, "The PP warns the Knight that he may be disabled if he does not appear in the Marisquiño" — go!—. Something like, "If you hide information about the festival, they'll go to trial," - go! And let's not say that question about Goebbels doing or trying to make anonymous billboards, because they didn't have a People's Party, then political misery comes! to divide by Vigo saying things... well, at last, I suppose you saw them. I think you can almost look... I'm sure you know her, Mr. Paz. I think it proves perfectly where they are, where they are. They're in seven concelers and they're going to stay in some less — I'm sure — because Vigo's citizens and citizens are not fools.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u112	Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u113	No, no, I'll stay a minute.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u114	Ah! I thought it was over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u115	No, no, I'm not done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u116	I thought it was over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u117	Indeed, there is a request to the Council of State to defend municipal autonomy, and the mayor of Vigo, legitimately, requests this opinion from the Council of State. I just wish I couldn't! Ah! [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I just wish I couldn't! Well, but the government can do it, right? [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Ah! [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Okay. That's right. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] And what is the problem that the Government is asking for a report from the State Council? I don't know exactly where the problem is. I do know where the problem is where you write and sign; and, of course, in this case signed by the President of Parliament. The officials of the Vigo Council requested approval in their presence just until the Council of State pronounced itself. And one of the reasons why you're denied -- I insist, I'm not defending the constables here, which I think they have to come or not, is their decision; I'm talking about local government officials -- says, "the welcome of their appearance sine die would dilate the work that this parliamentary body has commissioned, thus delaying the elaboration of its dictatorship. I'm sure you understand that you think in the box committee, that there were no applause here. It's true there were a lot of people who didn't appear, legitimately or not legitimately, but, well, they didn't. And, of course, this Member could say that he did not like them not to show up. But this constant threat of going to a trial day after day, means of communication after media... Mr. Pazos, look, regarding the information requested, first, is public. To us, the few times we are answered to articles 9, we are told to pass through the Council of Galicia, through the councils, to consult them; therefore, it is public. Second. There's a report from the Secretary-General of the Town Hall -- who, by the way, was the general secretary of a councillor of the Government of the Faijónius; to see if it turns out that when he was the secretary general of a councillor, he was cojoned, and now he's a conspirator against what he didn't know -- I'm sorry, he was great. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u118	It doesn't matter much either. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u119	So -- I insist -- there's a report from the Secretary of the Town Hall that says you don't have to send the documentation, and that's what you have to get to the Mayor of Vigo, to the Secretary's report, to the Secretary of your Town Hall.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u120	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u121	You'd only have to listen to him, Mr. Paz Couñago!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u122	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u123	And, yes, the socialists are not going to leave this plenary because the president of the board is only coming to the full to vote and answer his questions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u124	Thank you. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u125	Thank you. At the end of the day, Mr. Losada, I don't know any President of Government who presides over a House, nor do I know any mayor who refuses to preside over the Full Council, except his own. None! That's the difference. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Look, let's go in order, which I think we have to answer. Mr. Bará, I would like to reply! I don't try in front of the mirror in the morning, but, seeing your intervention, I recommend you do so. [[Murmurs.]] And I remind you that this Commission's lameira, in any case, was created by its own and En Marea, which seems to have forgotten it. [[Murmurs.]] By the way — to clarify it for sure — no one has given me any time, except the pitches I have to endure from the Bara check. That's a tunda indeed! [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Look, I don't know if you've become Mrs. Silva's submarine now, because they've just claimed all kinds of clarity to the mayor of Vigo, and now it turns out they don't care anymore! It's a wonderful thing! You're telling me about the deputation, what's the matter, did Mrs. Silva take it out of her ears? What's the matter? What's the matter, that some Members' concern is now uncomfortable because Mrs. Silva is telling her not to repeat, or something? Man, let's be a little serious! Believe me, we don't have any pathology with Vigo, but that's all you have with the PP. But, of course, you can't always attack the same ones, Mr. Bará. Of course I don't ask for anything from the port of Vigo, is that the port of Vigo is collaborating and tomorrow comes here. Come in tomorrow! Not the socialists. And I want to explain something to you, too. Well, we'll be right there. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u126	Quiet. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, Mr. Losada. It was in the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u127	I see a little changed to Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u128	Mr. Losada, quiet. Quiet, everybody. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u129	Well, I must recognize your temple, Mr. Losada. You're very temperate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u130	It's in the debate. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] It's in the debate. Quiet, everybody.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u131	I want to clarify something. I didn't say the organization didn't have RC; I say, I support and I keep that it's not in the license file, and that's a very serious mistake and with very serious consequences for the organization, for the Town Hall and we'll see if it's for the victims! I appreciate Mrs. Santos finding out that I am able to debate something politically, I appreciate it. As soon as possible, give him back the compliment. [[Laughter]] I'm telling you really, you have to have a lot of faces to say here that I don't have legitimacy in argumentation because you're asking for documentation from all the committees. Look, the Galician Union must not have any documents — not one! — of an investigation commission, except an autopsy whose report has not yet been carried out. You can check it out. Article 9 addresses requests, more than 400 requests for documents are answered, and you have been answered in this legislation — I speak only of this legislation — more than 8,000 written questions. And I'm done, if you'll excuse me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u132	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u133	...with Mr. Losada. Mr. Losada tells us to respect citizens is not to take the money home. I suppose you'll say so for 128,000 euros of Vigo's public era that she received Mrs. Silva's very great-grandfather. No, no, no, sorry... I don't expect the sentence because that's already believed. [[Protests.]] [[Murmurs.]] What's not believed is who plugged it in. [[Applause]] What's not believed is still the one who plugged it in. [[Applause]] And by the way, give me a reminder to Vigo's staff. Remember that the manganades make them some and then who's going to appear in court are the officials. Because to put us all in, it seems, but to give the officials a face.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u134	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u135	That's too sorry! I'll clear up one last thing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u136	The amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u137	Yes. I'll clear up one last thing. First of all, Mr. Prince himself made it clear that it was what sank. The signer of that agreement said that the maintenance of that act was yours. It was yours! Yeah, it was a street, it's called Avenue Pass, you know? [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] The secretary's report will allow me to question him, because a municipal secretary...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u138	Finish. It's been a minute and a minute.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u139	...report on the obligation he has to appear himself in this House...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u140	Quiet. Time is provided... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u141	...man, I don't know you, I get a certain...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u142	Finish it, Mr. Pazos. Amendments, amendments!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u143	I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u144	Amendments!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u145	I'd love to meet Mr Bará's amendment, we can discuss it. Just ask me to notify the superior of this is the superior of Caballero?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u146	Well, argue with her. In Marea's?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u147	Mrs. Santos's. I've made it clear. And I'm done. Parliament of La Rioja, Research Commission on the Town Hall of Villanueva [...]...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u148	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u149	... Mayors and secretary.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u150	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u151	Request from two workers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u152	Time's up, Mr. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u153	...municipal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u154	Time's up!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u155	...to be away...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u156	Time's up! That's it!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u157	Denied by the president of the Bureau, socialist like you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u158	Please! Time's up! Mr. Paz, time's up. Please! [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Time's up! [[Applause]] Please! We'll have trouble eating. They already know me! When we eat we'll have trouble! [[Murmurs.]] I don't say anything. [[Murmurs.]] I'm not saying anything! [[Murmurs.]] I'm not saying anything! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm not saying anything! [[Murmurs.]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de In Marea, at the initiative of Mr David Rodríguez Estévez and two other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece regarding the request for approval of the timely modification of urban planning in the parish of Tameiga, in the municipality of Mos, for the execution of a sporting and commercial project
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u159	No amendments have been made to this non-law proposal. Mr Sánchez has the floor for the defence of the proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u160	Everything that comes from the People's Party is selective. With regard to institutions it is selective, with respect to the times of interventions it also seems selective. In Marea he called for the investigation commission for the Marisquin accident because it was a very serious accident and it could be worse, and above all, for it not to happen again or for it to try not to happen again and put all the tools into place so that this does not happen. For the same reason, we called for a commission of inquiry, both here and in the Congress of Members, to investigate an accident in which 80 people died, 80 fatalities, the Angrois accident, and the People's Party systematically, here and in Madrid, refused, that's the selective respect you have for people and institutions. Have a little shame! [[Applause]] We did the same in both cases. [[Applause]] You do what's right for them to get electoral receipts, and that's where your real takeover is demonstrated. One of the many heritages that left frankism in this country was the culture of pelotazo, of speculation, as a promotion of economic activity, not as a creation of wealth, but as a mere extraction of that wealth. Unfortunately, we never broke up in the Spanish State with that inherited culture. Unfortunately, with this culture of ballast, neither. He said in the article "Speculation and caciquism" José Manuel Naredo, a doctor in economic and statistical sciences, National Economic Award in 2017, one of the people who most and most and best wrote about this model of speculation, of caciquism, of the culture of ballatization that led us, among other things, to a crisis that caused suffering to thousands and thousands of people: "There can be no change in the prevailing economic model without correcting the marked speculative and caciquil dimension that came characterizing the Spanish economy. Why don't we significantly improve the quality of life of the population when the Spanish economy came enjoying unusually cheap and abundant funding? What was the fate of that funding? Much of the cheap financing of the time came feeding the real estate-financial bubble and the constellation of megaprojects and infrastructures generally associated with it. Once the gains of land reclamation and/or the benefits of the construction phase have been achieved, the economic fiasco and the senseless of these mega-projects, now underlined by the economic crisis. I was talking about this in 2011. "Num many exponents of this procedure came to disrupt the territory by the dictates of the political and business oligarchies that were seeded everywhere — with the support of the public money — thematic parks, new cities and infrastructures, not counting on the needs of the population or the vocations of the territory. Has anyone asked the citizen what his priorities are before embarking on a program like this? It doesn't seem that way. And without changing the rules of the game, new investments will continue to fuel the speculative and speculative dimension of the Spanish economy that has led us to this plight." I think it comes very well to talk about the sport city project and the commercial macrocenter that aims to execute the People's Party in Mos and that also wants to execute the People's Party in Galicia. It is not in this case of producing wealth, but of extracting it, to stay with the wealth a few using public administrations for the purpose of private profit. The important thing is the ballast itself, what matters less is people's priorities, rationality and sustainability. They are the institutions at the service of speculation and should not be allowed, because — among other things — one must never bet on returning to that model which has caused the effects it has caused in this country. This project is intended to amend the Municipal Management Plan of Mos, which was finally adopted and presented to us by Mr Feijóo and Mrs Nidia Arevalo in early 2017. In early 2017, a general plan for municipal management was adopted with many years of treatment, with a working group, with a hired company, with citizen participation, and less than a year later, which was when it started with this idea, it was intended to redeploy nothing more and nothing less than 869,000 square meters, most of this forest protection soil. Half of these 869,000 square meters are neighbors in common with management instruments approved, by the way, in a country where this fact of having approved forest management instruments is minority. And one of the objectives of the Forest Commission's conclusions is that all mountains have management instruments. Well, when you're changing the laws so that you can declare the neighboring mountains in common state of abandonment in a more diligent way because there are many communities that don't work for desertification and the aging of rurals also caused by their policies or aggravated by their policies, you also want to end these mountain communities where they work, as is the community of the mountains of Tameiga in the case of the municipality of Mos. This is not about promoting sport, this is about business, because, in addition to sports facilities, it provides 142,000 square metres of shopping center, 120,000 square metres of commercial area on the floor, according to the promoters, "to ensure the economic viability of the sports budget area". Don't hide! In other words, the lands expropriated to one of the working communities, maintaining a sustainable activity, according to the ideologists of this operation must serve — previously reclassified by the Council and the Council of Galicia — to pay the business to Mr. Mouriño. This is a round business! How will the choice of expropriation be justified as a way of obtaining land when the end is the economic viability of a private business? How is the general interest justified or the public utility of this operation justified when the end is the economic viability of a private business? This operation would seriously affect landscape, environmental, mobility, water supply or small trade. A condition to the landscape that has already been warned by the Institute of Territory Studies; on the environmental level, because there would be a huge surface, forestry that contributes to the maintenance of the soil, to the maintenance of a breathing atmosphere; and a project that would lead, according to the study of the promoters, to between 8,000 and 12,000 vehicles per day in the area — an area already with hyperdense traffic that is already a serious problem in this municipality — from which only 5% would be motivated by the sports zone, 95% of those between 8,000 and 12,000 vehicles that would arrive would be motivated by that trade macrocentre. Finally, it wouldn't be serious if the 142,000 square metres of commercial surface were implanted without a study that was much wider than just the condition of the municipality of Mos. And from doing this rigorous study, it would lead to the conclusion that it is a disatiny to do it, because what normally happens with these operations is that they end up being a real fiasco, because, as I said before, what matters is not the commercial activity that develops there afterwards, the important thing is the surpluses for recalibration. And they intend to do all this against the opinion of the Community of Montes de Tameiga and against the water communities in the area, managers responsible for the territory and water for so many years. They, civil society, were responsible for maintaining activity in the mountains and supplying water to hundreds of people by themselves, and you want to go over your opinions. This project is not justified from the point of view of general interest, nor from the rationality. nor from sustainability, it is necessary to give a folder to that model of the ballast. It is only justified from the point of view of favouring a private business, where public institutions favor these private businesses. And here the Greek Government taught the suffering woman also in the Accompanying Law, trying to lock through the back door a mechanism of expropriation that allowed the private promoter himself, that is, Mr. Mouriño himself, to manage the expropriatory process. Article 117a. They went back because they got caught in the potatoes, but they taught the skate, and we're still waiting for an explanation why the German Government introduced that amendment to the Law of the Land. We're waiting for an explanation: why, what was the motivation? I guess these proposals aren't random, I want to believe that. We have therefore come today to propose that the Galician Parliament issue a political declaration, a political declaration! It's not our job as officials, we don't force anyone to commit illegalities, we issued a political statement that for us this cannot be allowed. That is why we ask you not to approve the timely modification of the planning of the Council of Mos with which you intend to facilitate the implementation of this mega-project sport and commercial. May the small and medium-sized trade and its conservation and expansion become potent. Keeping the land forested and leisurely. Which is functionally part of Vigo's green lung, Mos and its metropolitan area. To approve and publish the Strategy for the execution of Galician green infrastructure and, by the way, to approve those landscape guidelines which, according to Mr Feijóo, would be approved in 2017. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. You have the floor by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará Torres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u162	Good day again. BNG, logically, will support this initiative because it coincides with the fundamentals that our group has already presented in this plenary last December and which was, by the way, rejected by the People's Party. We're talking about a book-based urban ballast. We're talking about a conspiracy, a conspiracy between the People's Party, the Celtic Anonymous Society and a multinational investor of what we don't know yet. By the way, an operation sponsored and cared for by Mr. Núñez Feijóo and Mrs. Nidia Arevalo, as it was revealed in this picture. After this photograph, all the administrative and political machinery was put in place to make this ad come true. First of all, the beginning of the general plan to reclassify 864,000 square meters of rustic land, most forest protection, to convert them into a sports city, a shopping center and also a leisure park, which is little of the leisure park, which is free of private ownership. And then what happened happened, that they tried through the back door to modify the Law of the Land, what happens is that we caught them in fragant and had to go back, because they wanted to modify the Law of the Land nothing more and nothing but to give the Celta, or that multinational investor, the prerogatives of the Administration to make the expropriation. And besides with a true barbarity how to go over the Mountain Law, which says the communal mountains are indivisible, inalienable and unimpededable goods. You were trying to declare public utility and this is not a institute, it's not a residence, it's not a hospital, it's a private business, it's a speculative piracy business, and it's not a public utility and interest. This project, we've already told you, is a waste, it's a waste of purpose, it's a waste of money, and we're up to what the reports of the Galician Board's own documentation report, the scope document for environmental assessment. There are more than thirty reasons to put the change down, to put this project down. The Instituto de Estudos do Territorial talks about visual and landscape impact and the need to look for alternatives. The Territory's Directorate General of Ordination speaks of the need to properly justify the choice of expropriation as a system of action. Other reports speak of the need for water supply from Vigo Town Hall, of water resources affection, of the impact on the road system. By the way, with a connection since A-55 which is absolutely collapsed, with a forecast of more than 8,000 vehicles/day, most of them to the mall. From the impact also on the heritage, destroying a Roman estate. The occupation of land uses, of important movements of land with significant landscape effects. And also the impact this project will have on the trade of Mos and the whole area, which is neither studied nor justified. BNG, of course, is radically against this project. You will use all your strengths, all your energies and all your votes to prevent it from taking place. It will also support all mobilizations, all social and neighbouring initiatives in defence of the mountain, in defense of the landscape, in defence of resources and also in defense of local trade, which is seriously threatened by this project. And just as it happened in Baredo, which they had to march back, in Baiona, with a golf course, here they won't get any more remedy than going back because they have the entire parish of Tameiga against them. There was a vote that you don't seem to want to hear, and of 253 people who voted, 247 told him not to this project. BNG, of course, does, too, tells them not to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u163	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. You have the floor, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Fermín Losada Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u164	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was talking about Mr Rueda's political cynicism and Andalusia. Today we have had another one that is at least equally surprising, that it was President Feijó's reproach of the use by the opposition of fires as a political tool—conveniently remembered, absolutely spooky photograph of the hose and the nautical—but, above all—that is nothing but a lamentable stage—especially the dead on this atrium. The dead on top of this atrium that in 2006 we heard as the opposition to that government put them on top of President Touriño and counsellor Suárez Canal. So, well, finally, political cynicism but in this case I was going to say vomiting. I don't know if it's allowed, but something looks at least. And we continue with the political cynicism of the institutional positions of the People's Party. Mrs. Nidia Arévalo said on Monday, in a plenary session of her council, "Basically because there is no project, but all she has done is start a process." It is amazing to start a process without any project type. "We're at the zero point of a document." In the photograph that I too have here — but, for the sake of not boring them... — which Mr Bará taught, it can be seen that they went to a tea party when Mrs Arévalo was joined there, Mr Feijóo and Mr Mouriño, because, of course, if there was no project or anything, I don't know, there are huge posters with Popular Party etc. I'd like to know exactly what that was for. The aim of this is quite obvious, ladies and gentlemen. I often say here that the Galician Union with the city of Vigo has an amazing mechanism of performance, which is that the Union invites and Vigo pays. In this case there is some change: invite the Board and the Council of Mos, or the President of the Board and the Mayor of Mos; the neighbors of Tameiga and the Council of Vigo pay; and the next scale — and I keep it because I am absolutely convinced that it is so — Mr Mouriño charges. That's the point of the matter: someone's invited, someone's paid and someone's charged. And the absolutely political, electoral alliance of the President of Celta with the President of the Union against Vigo and the Mayor of Vigo is being expressed in a meridian manner in this project. Because it's a lie that Vigo Celta couldn't build its sports town in Vigo Town Hall, which is true, that he couldn't build a mall. That's the point! By the way, he tried it in the mountains of Vigo, even tried it under the Home College on Madrid Avenue, in full entrance to the city of Vigo, 100 meters from Spain square. Whoever knows that, he knows there's a big talisman under the school. There, under the Abanca property school, he tried to build that same mall. So we're talking about it, we're not talking about sport, about Celt, about nothing like it. We're talking about politics of the People's Party and Mr. Mouriño's business. That's the point. We can decorate it, we can make projects or not projects, power point, whatever we want, but that's what you're talking about. In fact, within this strategy, we understand that in the recovery of especially protected rustic soil for private commercial equipment, which will also be expropriated to give someone without a contest, is that the ballast and the scandal achieve absolutely levels... I don't know how to call him! I insist that you change the planning of a particularly protected rustic soil floor, expose yourself by the Administration, and give it, to a private person, so that he can come up with a commercial center of more than 120,000 square meters. And this is what the People's Party is defending. By the way, we socialists took a similar initiative to the committee in October 2018 and there they voted against. Then they voted against the Block initiative. I don't know what they're going to do today, perhaps Mr. Sánchez García is luckier, because of his capacity for historical conviction. The truth is that the "trapcheos" — among other things — of planning the People's Party with shopping centers in Vigo have a history. I would like to remember how the Gran Via shopping centre — a ballatz in all the rules — underwent an alliance by the People's Party to be able to build it and put out of the mayor's office of Pérez Mariño, mayor of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u165	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u166	It's over, Mr. President. That's what we're talking about. We are talking, by the way, about that project that Mrs. Arevalo says does not exist, but exists, it is, surprisingly, signed by a land management company -- we imagine it paid by Mr. Mouriño -- and by the municipal architect himself of the Town Hall of Mos. Not to exist, it's not bad.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u167	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u168	It is absolutely illegal to predetermine the beneficiary of an expropriation without prior tender. And then only the two who pay.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u169	Finish it, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u170	On the one hand, Tameiga in environmental terms, and on the other, of course, the Vigo Town Hall...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u171	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u172	...in terms of supply of water and transport networks. So we know who gets it and who invites it, too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada. You have the floor on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos Couñago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u174	Then some will complain that we link them to maturity. It's the usual summary, it's its milkmotive. Everything we don't like is forbidden; everything we like is mandatory. Here's the summary of everything you say. Because, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this initiative they present today is understood only from the point of view that they do not know the law. Or they don't know the law, I don't think they don't know Moses either -- I tell them the truth -- and I have many doubts that they know what ethics is, I tell them the truth. Look, they don't know the law because, if they know it, it seems tremendous to me that today they are presenting an initiative that would suggest that you urge Junta to make an administrative prevarication. Because you know that planning competition is a municipal urban competition. By the way, we are pleased to discuss this after the previous debate, thank you! Autonomic competition is limited to verification, integrity of documentation, compliance with planning, coherence with the territorial management guidelines and impact on autonomic and supramunicipal articulation policies. And as you know, urban acts are regulated acts, with which this is very simple: if all legal obligations are met, the sports city of Celta will be, and if legal obligations are not met, the sports city of Celta in Mos will not be. Look how easy it is to understand! You don't want to. What happens is that I believe -- I tell you the truth -- that Mos, like many other municipalities in the Vigo metropolitan area, is a little tired of some relegating it to the category of Vigo's poor brother. Look, Mos wanted, he wanted and will want, like the other municipalities in the area, to grow up with Vigo, with Vigo!, so he tried to consensualize a metropolitan transport, so he tried to consensualize a law of the metropolitan area, so we unanimously approved it in Parliament and that is why he unanimously approved the fourteen municipalities that formed it. And who broke that consensus? Vigo. What do you ask now? Because in that law of the metropolitan area it was given to the metropolitan area the possibility of territorial cohesion, it was given the competence of territorial coordination and cohesion, of urban cooperation. And now the same ones who broke that consensus aim to protect the development of a council that itself has remained in the consensus at all times. Mos has the right to grow up, they like you or not, and he was able to offer the Celta de Vigo what the city of Vigo was unable to offer. Why? Because of his mayor's incompetence. He's been shot down with a municipal management plan! They always forget to tell this! He was legally shot. And of course, then you hear things here... really, it hurts! Mr. Losada, that you equip the shopping center with urban ballast is tremendous, it is tremendous!, while your mayor announces that Vialia's, Valadares', Recaré's, is pending the one of Porto Cabral and has just announced Ikea's. Hey, you guys have a concern about Vigo's little business... man! Better! Could not connect with command [[Applause]] Look, we're going to focus on the issue, because if you really had a minimal ethical sense, you wouldn't be alarming, lying and deceiving the neighbors of Mos. Look, they're lying about the water-trafficking conditions. Of the six betrayed, only one is affected, Pereiras, by a capture. He's the only one who's affected in his captures. Curiously, he has reached an agreement with Celta de Vigo to cover himself in the event that — unlikely, as they say — he is affected. And another one in the driving pipes, which is Monte Baxiña, which tells you that it affects or serves two thousand housings, even though the Mino-Sil Hydrographic Confederation says it's seventy-six. Two thousand to seventy-six, I think there's a certain interest in alarming. They lie and cheat when they say the mountain is destroyed and they don't tell that, for every meter of the mountain used, two meters of reforested mountain with native species are offered. Manipulate when they say they're defending the little trade so I just explained it to you, Mr. Losada. We need to have some consistency. And they claim to defend neighboring groups. I have here a bureaufax of a neighbouring group asking the president of his assembly, specifically a community of water users in Tameiga, to assemble. 60% ask them to call together because they want to know about the project; they want the Celt to explain what you want to do; they want to know what the conditions for this project is offered to them. And the president, curiously close to the proposed group, doesn't call. 60% of the applicants per bureaufax and don't call. I'll finish now, if you'll excuse me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u175	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u176	I just don't know what I have, really, I don't know that we have Mr Bará and me with this picture. He taught me a very nice picture and I want to show him a picture of the same day. Besides, Mr. Sánchez was saying...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u177	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u178	...did you consult your neighbors before? I ask you, have you consulted? Because look, that day is this picture. Look, this one here is the voicer of the BNG; this one here the voicer of the Winner of En Marea; this one here the socialist. Man, but if you were in the photo with Celta, what happened to them?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u179	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u180	And yesterday they voted against in the plenary. [[Applause]] Look, do you know the difference between these two photos...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u181	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u182	...vote in favor, vote against? The only difference is municipal elections, there's no other.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u183	Thank you, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u184	Have a little shame and think more about Mos and a little less about you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u185	Thank you. Mr Sánchez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u186	Good morning to all of you. The spokesperson of the People's Party preferred to dodge the middle of the debate and go through the branches because he has no arguments. He questions our ethics and accuses us of wanting to prejudge. You prefer to pre-sale public promotion apartments to vacuum funds, as Mrs. Ana Botella did, and have to pay 26 million euros. You prefer that kind of prevarication. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u187	Silence! Silence! Quiet, please! Silence! Listen to who's using the word. Please continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u188	That our supporters see the democraticadapt of the People's Party when they have to hear the truth. Yes, sir, Frankish heritage is something more than the culture of the ballast, it is the democratic culture of deficit in the Spanish state. Good. You were talking about that virtually here the Union had nothing to do with it. Look, Mr Pazos, you can't at all know, but you know that the final approval of the timely amendment, if there is, or if not approved, corresponding to the Council of Galicia, you understand, you understand! It has so little to do, that approval of this depends on what the German Government says.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u189	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u190	The poor brother. You were talking about how we want to restrict Mos from being a poor brother, and you put as counterpoint to the growth of Mos this kind of project. I mean, you're still considering that the model of speculation and ballage is what's going to make Mos grow. Look at Barriers, look at Sanxexo and look at Mine, see if that ball model makes it grow or it's a ruin for most people. It grows a few, it would raise Mr. Mouriño and surely Mrs. Arevalo or some neighbor, but it doesn't make most people grow. What Mos needs are not urban ballasts, but sustainable and rational development. And you, in addition, say that here, for every meter of sports or commercial surface, there will be two native trees. You've already decided for the mountain community. The mountain community doesn't decide what you plant and what you don't plant, you give Mr. Mouriño the possibility of... Don't get nervous, Mr Pazos. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u191	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u192	...defense the theft of the armed hand that it means. This is difficult, but calm down, calm down. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u193	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u194	I mean, autostatement. They reduce the surface by 33%, because they can't anymore, because there's still a Law of the soil here, at least that limits something; otherwise we'll see. What you do is expropriate, want to expropriate the mountain community, the neighbors and neighbors of Mos, declaring publicly useful a space that is being managed sustainably, with an approved management instrument, which is minority in this country, to deliver those square meters to an entrepreneur to ensure economic viability. That's called ballazing! And what we want to do here is a political statement that this Parliament will not allow ballasts like that, ballasts like you historically come here in Galicia and in the Spanish state. It's a political statement by this Parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u195	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u196	...and it will not go forth, with the votes against those who have always practiced the ball, those who have always used the institutions to favor private businesses, those who have looted this country and who believe that the institutions are theirs to do business, of Mrs Arévalo and Mr Feijóo, and of the Members and Members of the People's Party, who support these plazas. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] He was commanded to silence everyone, just as on all previous occasions, Mr. Sánchez, as at all times. Quiet, quiet. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, Mr. Paz, quiet! [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I should be a little ashamed of everyone's behavior. Mr. Sánchez, you're not in the use of the word, silence; no, you're not, really. If you want to be called to order, I understand that's not the case. We greet the students of 1st and 2nd Bacharelate of Irimia's IES Pedregal, Meira's Lugo. We move on to the next point, to the next PNL, which is a cumulative debate on the 4.4th and 4.6th of the agenda published. For the purposes of discussion, the scope of Article 162.2 of the Rules of Procedure is attached to the same subject. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Flora Maria Miranda Pena and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to dignify primary health care and its professionals G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the design and implementation by the Junta de Galicia of an extraordinary human resources plan for primary care 2019-2020 in the public Greek health system
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u198	Two amendments were tabled to these non-legislative proposals of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u199	To formulate non-law proposals, you have the floor, first, Mrs. Flora Miranda Pena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u200	Thank you, President. A greeting to the students at the Pedregal Institute of Irimia. I think you have an exhalation here. Ladies and gentlemen, I do respect this Parliament and the people of this country. I know the saturation you're working with in primary school, I know the feeling of closing the consultation after you've been attending over sixty people, I can assure you it's demolition. I'd ask them to do the exercise of sitting in the chairs of those who make direct decisions about the lives of people, the reason of fifty people a day. I can assure you to take your breath away and also take your sleep out. I'm convinced of the firm defense of the primary as a health tool to improve the health of the population. I know your power to change people's lives, but I also know the need for a decent gift. No resources, no health, neither for people, nor for professionals. I want to demand a woman today, Barbara Starfield. She defined primary as accessible, people-oriented, resolute to more than 90% of people's health problems and above all installed around the environment, and this is tremendously valuable in our rural, dispersed and aging. When my family MIR began in 2000, we were set on fire the principles of equity, justice, prevention and health promotion. It was a progressive conception of health, based on the principles of Alma Ata, that Russian city in which health was spoken to all in the year 2000; a political will that never, ever came to be consolidated. Health is the cause and consequence of inequality. That's why primary must be in the center, because it has more capacity than any other to fight it. Health is a right, it's not a good of consumption. In spite of this, the health system walks towards hospitalocentrism and overintervention. They forget people's attention and they've directed us towards health as a business, as my fellow members of the Galician Public Health Association wrote in their book, which I claim despite what President Feijóo says. They forget people and work for multinationals, pharmaceuticals, technology and private and concerted centers. We know that this privatization is intended, and whoever executes it will cut off from the turning doors; look, if not, the Mosque Rock. They exclude people from health, as the World Doctors remind us in every annual report, and today we're talking about human rights. The Greek primary has serious problems, professional management is one of them, but not only. We lived in a very aging country; it was known by the protesters and protesters this Sunday in Curtis, who were asking for resources for a population that reached 40% in over 65 years. We spend more, because we live longer, we grow older, and we also use more of the health system for discomfort, even for those who could be solved outside the health system. Christine Lagarde said, rather than claiming it, that we live above our possibilities; a round phobia, comparable only to that song by Los Sirex of "Let the ugly die", but, as we aspire to something more than to develop xerontophobic and exclusive policies, we will have to seek the solution to our assistance problems. Give life to the years, and years to life, and years to life, and that we will only achieve it with regard to bioethics, with equity and distributive justice; by derogating the Health Law; by combating vulnerability; by coordinating us with social services; by strengthening home care, that which is so proper of primary, so valuable and so dignified, we will only achieve it with respect to bioethics, with equity and distributive justice; by derogating from the Health Law; by rejecting the health law; by combating vulnerability; by coordinating us with social services; by strengthening our home care; by strengthening home care; by strengthening home care, which belongs to the primary, so valuable and so dignified, so valuable and so dignified; by defending accessibility for people here and for what they come from here and for what they come from, by defending those human rights, by means of human rights, by means of human rights, by defending people and by virtue of the health system of the health system; by defending all kinds of the world, by means of all kinds, by means of all kinds, by means, by means, by using them, by means, by means, by means, by means of others, by means, by means, by means of others, by means, by means, by means, by means, by means, by using, by means, by means, by means, by means by means, by means, by means, by means, by means, by means by means by means by means by means by means by means by means by means by means by means by means by means by means by means by means by means by means by means, by means, by means, by means, by means, by means, by means, by means, by means, by means, by means, by means, by means, by means, by means, by means, by means, by means, by means, by means by means by means, by means, by means, by means, by means, by means, by means, by means, by means by means, by means, by means, by means, by means by means by means by means by means, by means by means by means by means, by means, by means, by means, by means, by means, by means, by means, by means, by means, by means by means by means by means by means, by means, by means, by But this is not viable without money. Do you know how much experts estimate a decent budget for primary care? Not 25%. Do you know how much our country is? Not 12.6%. Do you know how long Vigo's area is, what's the most deprived? Little more than 11%. How do you want people not to go out in the street? Ask the people of Vigo what their shortcomings are. Look out the street, gentlemen; they're talking to you. The primary also protects from the consequences of labour exploitation — there also exists — and accompanies those who suffer because of it. The management of casualties is another of the intrinsic values of primary care and it takes time to solve it, as is home care, that preserves the dignity of people, the protection of therapeutic obstination, respects their autonomy, robs families, manages palliatives and accompanies in dignified death, which is a difficult, valuable and libertarian task. During these years the PP has forgotten about investing in primary and its professionals. Now they're stuck in their faces. We have the CAP on our way to war; Vigo's chiefs of service maintain their resignation attitude; there are concentrations in health centers at 12am and 6pm. I could show you pictures of Santiago centers last Friday, for example, of Ourense and Ferrol on Monday, or Lugo yesterday. Only in this area of Santiago was Teo, Santiago, The Milladoiro, Bertamirans, Rianxo, The Poor, Otes, Kings, Dodro, Vedra, The Road, Lalin, Silleda, Flag, Oroso, The Bath, Black, Santa Comba... In the other areas, Sarria, Fingoi, Serantes, Ribadavia, The Miracle, Xinzo, Pontedeva, Allariz, The Bridge, Leiro. In many places they're protesting in primary care centers. We focus on the debate in which doctors and doctors are missing. We're not worth it. When you're sick of a PSX, it's not replaced either, and they're indispensable for managing the demand. There's no PSX deficiencies, it'll be an alibi. When there are no nurses, essential for care, they're not replaced either. If a midwife is on vacation, the controls will be postponed. From the TCAE we no longer speak, because their squares have been amortized from many centers, whoever manages their material! Primary pediatrics would almost deserve a monograph, because they don't have professionals, they don't have plans, and they keep promising what they can't and will not be able to take, and they pay our daughters and our children. Mental health already seems an unaffordable issue, which could be resolved in primary in this field! Without time, you don't approach people's discomfort, ladies. Precautionary doctors stand firm, resigning from signing a contract. Do you know what they call them? I hire garbage, Sergas garbage. They defend a primary that allows them to follow up, rest for the safety of their patients, they want a decent contract, they want to have vacations, they want to contribute weekends, they want squares in opposition and they want all the squares to be called, six thousand. They want decent work, and we want them. Unfortunately, this collective and the CAPs standing in war have normalized their precariousness.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u201	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u202	There's no lack of doctors, there's no opportunity to exercise labour rights. It's a bad day, it's a day off, it's a day off, it's a day off, it's a day away, it's a day away, it's a day away, it's a day away, it's a day away, it's a day away, it's a day away, it's a day away, it's a day away. CAPs do valuable work, which also makes up primary waiting lists, because in primary there are also waiting lists. They don't count either, because they don't care about women's health; we see it today. On nurses turn the chronicity; they should have greater resolution capacity. We use resources well, because they're very valuable. We take care of TCAEs, PSXs, physiotherapists, dentists, hygienicians, social workers. And what do the patients think? Well, they're going out the street. In December, massively; in January, massively; February 10 will also come out massively. Their associations complain of waiting, cutting and absence of dialogue, especially in this agency, with Nuñez Feijóo's cousin. Not to mention the absence of local health councils.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u203	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u204	— Already finished.— Let us optimize primary with resources, with professionals, with own management structure and with sufficient budgets. There's no health, no justice, no dignity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u205	Thank you, Mrs. Miranda. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u206	Thank you, Mr. President. We have carried out many plenary discussions on the number of professionals in the system all the time. The truth is, there's contradictory data. I think it's best to appeal that we finally received the Board's report on the volume of Sergas staff: 36,000 professionals — two sheets, uh!, it wasn't so much the report either. But, in order to be more objective, I — agree, President — if I am not mistaken, Rule 77.2 of the Rules of Procedure allows me to request the reading of a document. If you're so kind, I'll pass the table that Sergas delivers to us. You can tell me: How many professionals are there for each EOXI in the 2018 table, please? [[Mr. Torrado Quintela hand over a document to Mr. President.]] [[The President said words that were not understood.]] No, now, please, because... If you don't mind doing it now, there's no problem. [[The President said words that were not understood.]] [[The President said words that were not understood.]] No, 77.2; it is to facilitate the debate. If you can read me the data that Sergas passed to us on the table...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u207	Yeah, I'm telling you if it's as good as...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u208	No, no, please, if possible, please do it now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u209	Well, yes. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. It is covered by the Regulation. You can read it too, but I can read it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u210	You'll see how I can't read it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u211	Well, it's hard to read.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u212	It's hard.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u213	But it's a problem...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u214	But read me the 2017s, if you like.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u215	No, no, it's that the optional specialists show up here, they come with some data, but I can't interpret this very well either, because I'm not in this subject right now, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u216	Any data on the table. Call me any number.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u217	Well, any data says, "At once. Directorate-General for Human Resources."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u218	No, no, the table data.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u219	And "Health Council of Galician Union."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u220	Okay, I appreciate your reading of the document, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u221	Well, that's it. Perfect. All right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u222	Well, I'll show you because it's much easier. Do you know what's going on with the table? That's black, blurry. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela shows a document.]] There's no problem in other places, there are other tables that are perfect.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u223	It could be a photocopy error.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u224	But Sergas's staff table, blurred. And, besides, one can say: the impression went wrong, it could be! And since we're at the digital age, you have to print it again. You know what's going on? That they give us reports sometimes—sometimes, when they give us digitally, and this one gave us paper, just this one. So this, Mr President, has left it again so that you can understand it, this is an insult from the Government to Parliament; and you are President of Parliament, I hope that you will act accordingly. [[Applause]] And now we can see if you are at the service of Parliament — which I believe — or is at the service of the Government. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] You should fall in shame, eh!, you should fall in shame. Finally, on the particular debate on primary care that we bring to the motion, we thank — as our spokesman Fernández Leicega said this morning — the attempt or the hidden correction of the Government; I hide, because for now what should be a starting point seems to be consecrating it as a final point, and it should not be. And we say a rectification because we're starting to hear that something is recovered now called primary care addresses. I remind you that there were primary care agencies that you eliminated in 2012, that were implemented by the Government Tourin. They are now talking about a replacement contract, a continuity contract — I think they call it — defending the Basque model, which was that stable and flexible contract that had already begun in the Tourin Government and that you have paralyzed. It gives the feeling that Mr. Feijóo, after so much pride, understood that to do better management should look a little like Touriño, but it doesn't arrive — there are still classes, eh!, there are still classes. The truth is, it's all quite insufficient. But look, we have also heard these days — and that is why we have a proposal that we consider broad and negotiable — that the problem is with the Government of Madrid — as it could not be otherwise — that we have to ask for more MIR. How are we going to ask for more professional? Of course, November 2017, Minister Dolores Montserrat, if no one tells me otherwise, today very important in the direction of the People's Party: "there is no real shortage of professionals in the health system." You've been defending that there was no shortage of professionals. Now don't say that there's a lack of professionals and that the problem is from Madrid. They ruled until four days ago, and his minister said — Medical Gaceta of the week of November 13, 2017 — that there was no shortage of professionals. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela shows a document.]] We now have the problem of their blindness, and that's the problem: that you don't think they needed more professionals in the health system and those who had thrown them out, because they treated them in misery and because they gave them garbage contracts, and they threw them out and said there wasn't. But it's more -- I've told you another, that this is very funny. We're asking for an exceptional route to increase MIR squares. Call of the Technical Commission delegated to human resources of the National Health System of 11 July — which is where exceptional recruitment must be requested. You know what Galicia said at that meeting? Nothing, nothing. Can you bring here some writing that asks -- where to do it -- the call for more MIR squares? No, because it's a lie. You never asked for MIR squares again. Now, to clean up the problem, they say the problem is the Ministry. Hey, what if they want to give them more MIR squares, who believed the teaching units? Who believed the tutors? No one. You know why? Because he has to ask the Galician Board and he didn't. You're hiding your head in front of Rajoy's government all these years, destroying the system, and you know it. And now it's almost right for you to rule Pedro Sanchez, because they already have someone to blame. But you know what's going on? That to have more MIR squares you have to believe places, teaching units, tutors. Did you do it? No, no, no, no. And now they want an exceptional route, which basically means, "Stop calling, let's believe it, and then we'll have more MIR; stop calling." What you're saying in the papers -- not where to say it -- is that the summons should be stopped. If anyone had listened to them, we wouldn't even have the squares this year. Too bad you guys didn't say anything at the time! Because, yes, to despot the opposition, very much, but to demand the rule of Rajoy, shut up, eh! [[Applause]] Do you know the worst? That these letters have counseling. What did you answer to the Ministry, who told you there was no request? Shut up. Did you officially request more MIR squares? No, no, no, no. Did I make any request for the exceptional route to the Human Resources Commission in the Ministry? No, no, no, no. Therefore, you must recognize that you are consistent: they do not believe that there is a need for more doctors — we believe all the others: all political groups, all trade unions, user groups, professionals, medical schools; all of them, the PP didn't -- and they didn't ask for them. And you to the Minister of Health, who said two and a half years ago, that there was no need for more doctors in the system, now put it next to Pablo Casado — which, in fact, when I hear them talking to both of us, I don't know which one is worse, I also tell them. You're promoting the people who built this problem. You are the problem of the health system, because it's very difficult to defend a system that you don't believe in. What do we propose? We propose the possibility of agreeing on something still in time to solve a part of the problem. And we make a broad proposal. It means that, in addition to dealing with a number of issues, it is obviously possible to agree and negotiate. And we've been thinking about a number of things. First, of course, we want to ask the Ministry to enable more MIR squares. And what we propose to you is in the proposal, that the Board do its duty, and will have our support, of course, to demand all the MIR squares that we need and that we be able to cover with our means, of course. All those who are able to cover and that the Greek system is able to form will have our support to ask them, but they will have to believe that we are capable! Or are they going to ask for MIR and then we leave them at the hospital door because, uh, we don't have tutors? You have to be a little serious, you have to be a little serious! What do we propose? We propose that we do a real job to improve the eventuality, which is not the data the Council says. And you know it, and you recognize it in every place but here, which says we have an eventuality of 8%, or 9% -- every day that comes up, they say a different number. There's an eventuality in the system of more than 25%, one in four -- like little -- of healthcare professionals has a possible contract, and many of them have been working systematically every day for years. What do we propose? Those who work every day, even if it's a lot of continuous contracts, what do you mean? That place is necessary! Let's set it up. Do you know what it takes for that too, among other things?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u225	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u226	'Yes, I'll stay a minute, I'll finish, Mr President, in time.' Remove the refresh rate. And now you're talking about removing the replenishment rate. Welcome! Do you know what's going on with the replenishment rate? That our group proposed three times that this Parliament should vote in favour of asking Madrid to eliminate it. Other groups proposed more, but we three times. Do you know what happened three times with the People's Party? That they voted against. But it's much easier. Look, they choose a criterion, one, they define a position, one, in that position we discuss. But it's impossible for you to be able to debate when you say one thing today, tomorrow another thing, they do one thing, then they don't say it, and now they say they ask for something they haven't done. It's just that you can get up here saying "Long live the Republic" and tomorrow applaud the king! They're able to do anything, because when you don't think they're worth anything. And it's impossible to work with those who have no criteria. They use one, they choose the criterion. What we stand for is what we've been doing for a long time: the system has a problem especially with the lack of staff — there are others, but above all with the lack of staff. We need real calls, which is not just the reinstatement of retirements, which incorporate new professionals, that there are more new squares. We're willing to agree to that, to ask for more MIR, to work and to ask that the replacement rate be removed. That's all we've been proposing for a while. Now that the government has changed in Madrid, we continue to do the same, defending the same. If you're really willing to do this work together right now, here you have this proposal, you'll vote for it and you'll have to make that demand.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u227	Finish, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u228	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u229	Thank you. Mr. Torado, you, of course, sent me to read a document. Of course, in some things, so I can't get in soon. But once I get into the document, the document says a lot more. I'm not in the health area now, but data is obtained from the document. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, no, sorry. But you can't tell me to read just one thing. You, if you pass me a document, you have to do an analysis of everything, of all things. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] That's a bit of a trap. [[Murmurs.]] Important data is obtained: from 2008 to today there are 2,353 more professionals. Only in specialized care, 508 plus; 137 more emergency doctors; and in specialized nursing, 690 and peak. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, this is the document that happened to me. You have to read it all. Of course! [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] You can't do that to me! That's it! Well, that's part of the debate. Now... but it's just that you got me into a debate that maybe wasn't going on. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Núñez takes the floor now. Thank you. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] That's it, man, please! You gave me this, of course, but it's not. Mr. Núñez Centeno, it's up to you now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u230	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. Dolores Montserrat, Gaceta Médica: "There is no real shortage of professionals, but there is an inequality in distribution in some specialties such as family medicine and pediatrics." No more comments. I have to start by saying that our group is absolutely in line with the first sentence of both initiatives. "The current situation of primary care in Galicia faces a scenario of exceptionality and difficulties," said the Socialist Group. "Prime care is the essential foundation of any health system that aspires to be efficient, accessible, resolute and comprehensive," says En Marea's proposal. Mrs. Miranda, we also agree that primary care is very resolute — you and I know it: more than 90% — and it has worked and worked obviously in the prevention and promotion of health through very well-trained professionals. From that point on, we disagree with the solutions that are difficult to comply with the existing regulations and the current situation of professional deficits. What years ago could be an economic problem even now has become progressively becoming a problem of scarcity essentially — as we said — of family doctors and pediatricians. And with the Government of Galicia is acting within its capabilities, increasing 1,544 workers and workers to Sergas compared to the year 2008, with the annual OPE, with the increase of the primary markets, but always, of course, in compliance with the rest rate; with the invitation of transfers open and permanent; with the increase of MIR squares within the legal and accreditation possibilities of training units; with the pioneering recruitment in Spain of nurses and nurses through the family and pediatric EIR, but always, of course, but always, of course, by fulfilling the replenishment rate; with the invitation to the replenishment rate; with the invitation to open and permanent transfer contest; with the increase of MIR squares within the legal and accreditation units of training units; with the pioneering recruitment in Spain of nurses and nurses through the family and pediatric EIR, but always, of course, of course, but always, of course, of course, to comply with the replenishment rate of primary care for children and children of young working groups; with the progressive nature of working groups and working groups, with different categories of the job groups of the job groups proposed by the Santy of the Santy of the Santy Ministry of Sanity Ministry of Sanity Ministry of the Ministry of Sanity Ministry of the Year of Santy Service of the Year of Sanity Secretariat of Santy Service of Health Secretariat of Health Secretariat of the World Secretariat of the key Office of the key Office of the key Office Office of the key Office of the key Office of the World of the tasks of the tasks of the tasks of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Health Office of the Secretariat of the Health of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the World of the World of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Health of Health of Health of the Secretariat of the tasks of the tasks of the tasks of the tasks of the tasks of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the tasks of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the tasks of the tasks of the tasks of the tasks of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the tasks of the tasks of the tasks of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the Secretariat of the I believe, of course, that any professional in the medicine of previous promotions would have long appreciated the existence of this contract, right, Mrs Miranda? Isn't it true that he would have thanked you in his time? I think so, maybe he's forgotten already. And in the face of these actions, the Ministry responds to counsel's demands in what way? Proposing to propose the transfer to the Basque Country of the approval of non-Community foreign physicians from the package offered in the package to achieve the approval of budgets; rejecting the extraordinary MIR for family physicians proposed by the Government of the Basque Basque Basque Country from the approval of non-Community foreign physicians in the package offered to achieve the approval of budgets; rejecting the extraordinary MIR for family physicians proposed by the Government of the Italian Government, to hold subsequently after what is going to be done this weekend, and which would allow to complete the voluntary measure for the voluntary increase of retirement age increases to 70 years in the package offered to achieve the approval of budgets; promising, without much conviction or commitments, the amendment of the legislation to encourage difficult-covered squares in Spain, the Royal Decree 1146/2006; not allowing the increase of six MIR of paediatric MIR squares requested by Galicia requested by Galicia at 70 years; and that it would allow it to be possible to complete the voluntary increase in this year of the MIR of family MIR squares until seven years; promising MIR squares, the seventh, the seventh – the Ministry of Vázquez Almuquququququququez Almuña, the year, the amendment, the year, the year for the year, the year for the year to increase to increase in order the year to increase in order the year to increase of this year in Spain to increase of this year to increase of this year to increase in Spain to increase in Spain to increase in order to increase in order to increase in order to increase in Spain's the place to increase in order to reduce the place of the place of the place of the re standard of the re standard of the re standard of the re for the re for the re double the re for the re double the re or double standard of the re double standard of the re double for the re double for the re double or double or double for the re double or double or double or double for the re double or double double double or double double double double double or double or double or double or double or the rate rate rate rate of the rate to reduce the resorts for the resorts for the resorts for the re or double or double or the rate rate rate rate rate rate rate rate rate rate rate rate rate rate of the re or the re or the rate or the rate rate rate rate rate rate rate rate rate rate rate rate rate of either the rate or the rate rate or the rate or the Ladies and gentlemen, socialist and popular ex-ministers have just applied for a great national agreement on health, a state pact on health. And in this sense, we present our amendment, urging the Government of the Union to continue with collaborative activity and consensus with all the collectives to define a new model of primary care with the minimums that appear in the texts of our amendment. You, Mr. Torrado, who is the real influence of the health policy of the Health Council, as you have stated in this Chamber, can try to convince Minister Carcedo to listen to and value the proposals of the Council. The Group of En Marea, Mrs Miranda, has also supported Mr Sánchez and can contribute to the Central Government taking all legal measures that favour the incorporation of family medicine professionals and pediatricians into the public health system. We expect support for our amendment. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u231	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u232	Good afternoon again. BNG will support these two initiatives, which it presents both in Marea and in the Socialist Party, not because we agree on the whole of the points they present, that if there are issues in which we have a certain discrepancy, but if we believe that the important thing is that they put primary attention at the focus of the debate, and that is where we find ourselves and we believe that this is the relevant one and that is why we are going to support it. And not because we took a blow in our head or fell off the horse on the way to Damascus, as it seems to be happening to the People's Party, which suddenly realized that primary care is transcendent and relevant. And I'm saying this because, of course, it turns out that we've been not days or months realizing it, we've been bringing initiatives here alerting about what was happening, because it was very obvious, alerting us because we were being moved by professionals and because we were alerted to the population that I was seeing as they were delaying appointments in primary care, as it was not being resolved. And, as a result of that, we brought here initiatives asking that the primary care improvement plan, which had been negotiated in 2008, be removed from the drawer, had negotiated, agreed, worked together with the professionals and that you put in the drawer. We brought it over and over again. Fruit of this, in the budgets of the Galician Board we insistently amended so that you would provide primary care budgets, because from 2009 to 2019 they deducted 2,000 million euros from primary care. Because year after year in budgets, while in recent years we have been recovering budget, when we have time we discussed where they were putting that increase in budget, but of course not in primary care, and this year, 188 million euros less, ten years later, 188 million euros less in primary care than ten years ago. I can keep telling you. A year ago, the BNG brought to this House, a year ago, a law to act in primary care, a law where we said where resources could be withdrawn for 2018 to urgently allocate 200 million euros for primary care, because it was urgent to act. We said where and we said what the situation was. We said that there was a need for professionals, we said that there was a need for resources, we said that primary care was necessary, we said that primary care professionals needed to be allowed access to diagnostic tests, we said it was urgent to do so. What did the People's Party do? To vote against and say that we were alarmists, that nothing happened... Oh, but suddenly -- I mean, I don't know if they took a hit on their head -- something happened to them. What happened to them? There's a tsunami out there. That as much as you try to build a bubble, you try to live in an alternative matrix, the people of Greece don't want to live in their Matrix and don't live in their Matrix. The Greek people are aware of the reality in which you want to put public health and believe nothing anymore, they are aware of what is going on, and they are rebelling against the Greek people and professionals, who said "we have arrived here" and they have rebelled; the heads of service, they have rebelled professionally against the CAP, the people have rebelled, they are going out of the street saying that they no longer accept them withdrawing, that there are no pediatricians, that there are no professionals. And that's the reality, that they no longer believe their story, and because they no longer believe their story, and they can no longer with propaganda mountains cover reality, so now suddenly, it turns out that there are some working groups where they're analyzing to give solutions proposals. I am a little stranger to the amendment you tabled, Mr People's Party Members, first because one of the points is to demand from the Ministry the elimination of the replacement rate of primary care specialists. There is nothing, in November, in this Parliament, in the Commission 5th, adopted in a committee, approved, we approved the Ministry's request for the elimination of the overall replacement rate. And it turns out that you approve — we unanimously approve an initiative put forward by the BNG — to demand that the replacement rate be abolished in general, and it turns out that they come today with the reductions. Now we're just asking for the family medical specialists. Oh, no, no, of course, because today we came here with the discounts, today only the family doctors. Let's go. I thought if we asked for the removal of the spare rate now, not when the People's Party was ruling — because I told you, of course, the Socialist Party was set up, but you kept it, and until you were released from the Government in Madrid, they didn't remember that it had to be eliminated — well, we agreed here to ask the Ministry, the Government of Madrid for the removal of the replacement rate, and today they come with the discounts: we're going to ask for the removal only of the replacement rate for the specialists in family doctors. I think it's an unnecessary discount. Then, indeed, the issue of the MIR squares. How many times have we brought to this Parliament, at least the BNG — I can tell, but quite often — the request for the extension of the MIR squares? They always told us it wasn't necessary, that it wasn't necessary, and now it turns out that it is. In the alternative health research committee, which we had to set up opposition groups because you didn't want to bring here the reality of public health, because two pediatricians who came here know something they told us? That, for example, there is not a single square in primary...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u233	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u234	...accredited for the training of primary pediatricians. What's wrong? Then, when the pediatricians leave, they just think about the hospital. Why? Because there's not a single one accredited. Whose fault is that? From the People's Party, who didn't bother to have a single place. Now remember certain issues. With which rectification is wise, it is good for them to correct, but if it really is, if it is true, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. It is clear that the fundamental problem of public health in Galicia begins in primary care, which requires a great deal of correction, but essentially resources and professions are needed, but really. There's a part of it that's up to the Spanish Government -- and there they're going to find the Galego Nationalist Block demanding that correction -- but there's a very important part that belongs to him...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u235	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u236	...to make the German Government. And then I hope that the People's Party will also be able to look at the embigo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u237	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Miranda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u238	Thank you again, Mr. President. First of all, we thank the PSdeG initiative, even if we make it nuances, we thank the support of the BNG and we're not surprised at the hypocrisy of the People's Party; whatever the election may say. We dignify the primary, ladies, we treat people well, we take care of their professionals; they depend partly on the well-being of people. We prioritize it in budgets and management structures. Their chronic stress in ordinary consultations and CAPs is neither sustainable nor even medium-term. Primary improves health with greater equity and lower cost. That's why it must be the axis of the system. They'll handle it badly. The use of more specialists for problems that could be solved in primary care generates more expenses, more tests and more side effects, not to mention the waiting lists and what is spent on private resources. Maybe it's intentional. The primary is less interested because there's less business in it, so the managers look at the hospital. This LNP calls for 25% of the public health budget for the central link and to meet the demands of those who know: patients and professionals. Asks time, staff, oppositions, dignified conditions, management autonomy, fighting waiting lists, avoiding saturation and dignity. We can't admit your amendment, Mr. Centeno. Inquisitions to patients — they know — are trendy, nescent and methodologically incorrect; they know. They're telling them loud and clear about the mobilizations that they want. Listen. And you enable mechanisms where only half-truth interests. With regard to professionals, the working groups that Sergas created are disenchanted, they do not represent the workers, because they were not chosen by them, were chosen by St. Lazarus's finger. Vigo's resignations don't participate, forget the people of the CAP and now hurry to negotiate with them — the municipalities come. They do not participate in the precariousness and have forgotten other groups such as matrons, dentists, hygienists, physiotherapists, TCAEs or PSXs. That's why we don't accept the PP amendment, and that's why we don't want a primary management subordinate to the hospital either. We want everything: an agency of our own...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u239	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u240	...autonomy of management. What's next? Let the doctors and the family doctors exercise without expertise, how are they proposing next door? Would they let a cardiologist exercise without expertise? You know what happened when primary care agencies disappeared? Well, the money, the bosses, autonomy, decision and resources were left in the hospital. And in primary there's intelligent life, ladies, and smart people don't like submission. We live times of crisis, take the opportunity, dignify the primary. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u241	Thank you, Mrs. Miranda. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u242	Thank you. Mr. President, I am very sorry about the intervention you did after my intervention, because, besides, you know, you have the document ahead, but don't worry, you'll see everyone else, who's lying. There's a table you can't read, which is the one I asked you to read. And if not, we'll make it easy. At any time of my intervention you can interrupt me, if you know how to give me the data of the EOXI of the Coruña in 2012, that of Vigo in 2008, that of Ourense in 2017 or that of Santiago in 2016, I don't care, I can choose other years... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please, if you don't mind, I'm talking.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u243	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u244	Or if you can read the table, I thank you too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u245	But I guarantee you, I didn't lie.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u246	You know what I asked you to do and you didn't. It took me a long time to prove that you are a PP militant in the presidency of the Galician Parliament. I had another authority in Parliament's presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u247	That didn't run in a hurry. Well, let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u248	And if you wanted to be a health spokesman...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u249	It's been many years, and it's big...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u250	...the Health Counsellor knows that he has our support. We're not going to the worst.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u251	I certainly didn't want it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u252	We're not going to the worst. And of course, they put another one on us, and it was better if you were a counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u253	Let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u254	Let's get to the point. I say it because it was Minister Dolors Montserrat who said, "I'm glad you recognize me." "There is no real deficit of professionals"—thanks for reading—but "there is no real deficit of professionals" means "professional lack fans." There's no real shortage of professionals, and that means they need a lot of them. You have a problem, Mrs. Montserrat, with linguistics. The other day at Congress, he lost his papers a little bit. There's no real shortage of professionals, but that means there is. Anyway, I don't know if I'm influencing or not. Youtubers don't, because they already have them. You have hats, you have trolls and influencers, you have everything, you even know that they measure every success of Feijóo. What was it like? In selfies. I told you once: be careful with the photos of Feijóo, it won't be; be careful with the photos of Feijóo, it won't be. [[Applause]] On MIR's proposal, we'll be delighted to accompany the proposals when they do, but they didn't. Meeting of the Ministry's Human Resources Committee, what did the Council do? Shut up. What have you done in the last seven years? Shut up. Why? Because you know the Councillor and the advisor, who was there, who, if you make a proposal, what you're going to say to him is: first, believe and do your duties. And then the counselor finally shuts up, because he knows he has more to shut up and has very little to say. And that's what happens. What happens is that after you want to sell that they do a lot of things and they do work groups, and sell a lot of pictures. They have a problem with the photos — I tell them — But they didn't ask for anything, because they can't, because you have to do the job of believing first and they didn't. By the way, do it now, they haven't started yet. What are they voting against? They're voting against you to convene new squares, they're voting against increasing professional training, they're voting against providing greater stability for professionals and they're voting for a contract that can lead a system worker to work two thousand hours a year or to work thirty-one hours in a row. That's what you want to vote for, and that's not what we propose, that we have more stability, more recruitment and professionals who have all the capacity to develop them. That's what we're proposing. What is more, we're proposing whether they want to eliminate the replenishment rates; we're proposing, as in that agreement we propose today...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u255	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u256	...a deal to demand more MIR squares. They're voting against that. Why? Because you talk to them, but when you run, they know they don't want, they can't or they don't know, and that's what happens to you. By the way,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u257	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u258	...lords of the People's Party, do the job of asking for these squares, but do them well, that your health problem we pay the rest.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u259	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members, on the measures necessary to safeguard the Galego Centre in Buenos Aires
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u260	An amendment was tabled by the Parlia­mentary Group on the Environment, an amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and another by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u261	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u262	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are again talking about the Galego Center in Bos Aires, this centenary entity built with great effort, I am also very excited and dedicated, by the Welsh emigration of Buenos Aires. This is undoubtedly one of the emblematic centers of emigration, but at the moment it's going through a critical situation, I almost dare say a limited situation, and of course, in this situation, in the BNG we believe it is urgent to act and assume the responsibilities of the Greek Government as well. And we say this because we have very clear that the loss of the Galician Centre would be an irreparable loss, but it may also constitute the beginning of the dismantling of all the heritage that have built the Greeks and Greeks in emigration, and that we have an obligation that is moral but also a political obligation, and it is a legal obligation to act to prevent our heritage being lost or that thousands of Greeks and Greeks who currently have health care through this center may be neglected. There's obviously a lot at stake, because a cultural heritage is at stake, a legacy is also at stake, which is a legacy from a part of the Welsh exile to whom he expelled the franchise that hosted the Galego Center itself and which has an important symbolism, because, in addition, that's where Castelao died, in a room that has a symbolic value. There's a library with 20,000 copies and it's also the whole legacy of what this editorial Galician Editions was and has some paintings that are artistically relevant, by authors as important to our country as Castelao, Maside or Colmeiro. Obviously, we know that this center has been dragging problems for decades, that it has been very affected by the economic crisis that has been going through Argentina and that it has at first had an answer that at least alleviated and allowed the operation of the Centre, and it was the option by which it was chosen at the beginning of this twenty-first century, because there was a Galician Health Foundation that had managed what was the mutual hospital, with an agreement that would allow that center to continue to function, and that it was an agreement that remained until 2011, that we all maintained until the year 2011. And this is an important moment, because in 2011 the Greek Government makes a decision, and it is the decision to liquidate the Galician Health Foundation and to asphyxiate the Centre economically, preventing the Centre's viability, endangering the heritage, and therefore there is a clear responsibility on the part of the People's Party. Obviously, not only does this decision influence the situation of the Centre. We'll never say that. There is a responsibility for the Centre's directives, there are also responsibilities of the Argentine Government, because someone has to explain to us how an intervener can multiply the debt and leave a hospital almost scalable, which today is causing many people to have difficulties in accessing their right to health. But of course, next to that responsibility, there is also a responsibility of the Galician Union and the People's Party, because it has made decisions that clearly touch the future of this center. And I — I don't know — don't believe in chance. I don't believe in them, and I don't think it's just a coincidence that just after losing the candidate who supported Alberto Núñez Feijóo to preside over the Galician Center, right after that, it's when he starts disengagement with the Galician Center and the expulsion from Spain. And I say, besides, he was Feijóo's candidate because the campaign he did that candidate was a picture of him with Feijóo next door; so I imagine he was the candidate of the People's Party. And after he lost that candidate, he danced a series of facts that were key and that determined the situation in which the Galician Center is today. The first — as we have said — dissolve the Galicia Health Foundation. The second was the expulsion of the Galician Centre of Ospaña in a process which, of course, we think needs to be clarified. We have requested a lot of documentation, which the Galician Council has not yet referred to this Parliament. But there's one thing that's clear, and that's that in the situation of expulsion from the Galician Centre in Ospaña there are three actors: Alejandro López Dobarro, who was deputy to the Board in Argentina; Santiago Camba, who, among other positions, was secretary general of Emigration and also deputy to the Board in Argentina; and the current secretary general of Emigration, Antonio Rodríguez Miranda. A dark process, which has still opened its judicial route, where the Galician Centre of Ospaña is suddenly expelled and integrates in its place a mutual which was created precisely for that. That mutual one who presides is the one who presides over the centre of Ospaña itself. And in addition, there is a change in the statutes that — if done — allow the Union and the Government of the State to lose capacity for action and decision-making in Spain to shield themselves from changes that may occur in the Greek and State governments, the people who are currently in control of Spain. And the serious thing that someone has to explain to us is how it could be that the Central Government and the Union, at that time in the hands of the People's Party, had pressured officials to accept these changes. How could the Board act against their interests in that place? Of course, this requires a lot of transparency. After all, what is left of us is a Galego Center in a critical situation, with serious internal problems, with a hospital that is being dismantled, indebted, and that puts at risk the survival of all the cultural heritage that the Greeks and the Greeks have in emigration. And I mean, of course, that we respect the decisions that the partners and the partners of the centers have to make. But our duty is to denounce the process that is taking place in the center of Galicia and also the blackmail that is being subjected to when it goes ahead with that sale process. And in addition, we make this proposal on the basis of the laws that we have in Parliament, which I don't know whether or not they have been repealed, but we have a Cultural Heritage Act, which obliges us to act to safeguard the heritage of emigration. But we also have a Law of Galeguity, which was passed in 2013, which obliges Junta to act to guarantee the benefits of the health system in emigration and which obliges Junta to act in order to safeguard all that heritage. The truth is that the Union has failed to fulfil its legal obligation and what it has done so far is to make decisions that all they have taken is to sink this Galician centre. And we have a very clear, very clear process of dismantling the Center to try to sell it. There seems to be interest in companies that have their base in the Spanish state with links in privatization processes with the People's Party in Valencia. I don't know if that's what the People's Party answers to. What doesn't seem normal to us is that there was a Galician center that actually had problems but that had a debt, which was assumed, in 2012, of 60 million pesos, which, after the intervention of the Argentine state in the hands of the Macri Government, was to shoot that debt in an absolutely brutal way. It has been said that since Macri appoints the last intervener, the debts of the Galician Center have been fired at more than 1,700 million pesos. And these are data to be taken with caution, because we don't know exactly what the situation is, and these are the estimates that have been transferred to us by the representatives who have the organizations that make up the Galician Center. Clearly, there is a process programmed so that I don't know what other interests, which are not those of the Galician community, and where the Government of Macri doesn't appoint an intervener, what it appoints is a liquidator, which only wants to sell the Galego Center in Buenos Aires. That's why we are taking an initiative today that wants to safeguard the future of the Centre and of course to curb the dismantling of the legacy that Greek emigration has built in Argentina, that we put transparency where there is darkness and that we hold hands with it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u263	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u264	We believe that we must paralyze the sale of the hospital and seek a solution for the future that includes a plan of viability, which takes the necessary measures, as established by law, to preserve the heritage. And, ladies and gentlemen, finally, we support the statement that will be taken forward from the historic site of the room of the Galego Centre in Buenos Aires, which is the debate precisely in the city of Buenos Aires, because it is good that the painting from Castelao to Galicia comes, but it is much better, of course, that we preserve the legacy that Castelao has left and that we preserve such a symbolic place for our country. I hope we can reach a unanimous agreement today, but I say that for that there must be will and no declarations of intent come, because at this moment what is required are clear ideas, clear positions, and do not continue to dwindle the partridge so that nothing will change. Let's hope there's good news for the center of Galicia today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u265	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u266	Yes, President, thank you. Good morning, ladies. Good morning to the assistants. We have already spent more than a year, a long year, a year and three months, with different debates, both in plenary and committee discussions, about the problem — obviously problematic that you are already having more than worrying — of the survival of the Galego Center in Bos Aires, with all that it means, on the one hand, for what is the health system of the almost five thousand Greek and Greek partners who are still linked there and, on the other hand, for the preservation of, obviously, of a fundamental value for Galicia as is all the cultural and bibliographical heritage from a historical perspective of outer Galicia there in Bos Aires. He said we've been for more than a year, and during these months, these fourteen or fifteen months already, since the Socialist Parliamentary Group we've also always wanted, from the very first moment, to show our utmost concern and to work, because I think you have to work together the whole House, but in a specific way, the Government of Greece, in the application, as Mrs. Pontón said, both of the law of Galician cultural heritage, in order to find ways of viability of the center of Galicia. In December 2017, we will present a series of initiatives and present some questions from which you answered in this House in full at that time the Education and Culture Counsellor in this direction. And we must not forget — even the forgetfulness when we speak — the declaration of the plenary of the Galaga Culture Council itself of January 2018, in which and, in addition — I insist — with attendance at that plenary session of the Galician Culture Council of the Galician President himself, of President Feijóo, according to article 4 of Galician Cultural Heritage Act, proposes that all necessary measures be taken to save the integrity of the legacy of those with their efforts and fixed value of Galicia a reality that transcends their borders, etc., etc., etc. We all know this statement from the Council of Culture. But there's more. We arrived at this House and at the plenary session on 21 March, among all groups, we adopted an institutional statement for the defence and for the creation of the Galego Centre in Bos Aires, and in that institutional statement I made a clear statement in the need to demand political will to preserve, on the one hand, and ensure the quality medical care of current partners and companies and the protection of the artistic, documentary, bibliographic or editorial heritage that contains the Bos Aires Centre. There have been other interventions, other initiatives, in this case by En Marea. We have also tabled a series of amendments to these initiatives in order to ensure this health care and of course to take the necessary measures to preserve that cultural heritage. And we came to the full last month of December, 19th, where we asked again questions to the Greek Government to know what actions were taken so far to try to determine to what extent the Greek Government, in application of Galicia's own laws and obviously respecting the legal framework of the Argentine Government, had acted. We then reminded the Councillor now of Culture, Mr. Román Rodríguez, who, as Mrs. Pontón pointed out, since the Government of Feijóo had decided in 2011 to liquidate the Galicia Health Foundation, the Galego Centre broke up, eventually intervened, as we all know, by Argentina Justice, and this decision — we have told the Councillor of the Government of Feijóo — whether or not, but it seems that it may have related to the circumstances, also pointed out earlier, that since 2010 it had not produced exactly the candidatures supported by the Government of Galicia to lead the Galego Centre in Bos Aires. We asked, almost rhetorically, whether we were in the face of reprisal or we were simply in the face of a total irresponsibility of the Greek Government towards the Galego Center in Bos Aires, and we told you, Mr. Tellado, too, although I understand that you cannot be too interested in this question from outside, that giving you again entry to the Galician Center in Spain might be one of the solutions to the viability of the Galego Center. The counselor's answer to that question was that I think too clarifying of that -- as he said in that intervention -- low intensity in defending this position, which more strongly defended the Councillor of Culture in his first answer to the question. Because he said, "The person responsible for this situation is not the Junta, the person responsible is the Argentine Government, it is the will of the partners themselves. There's a power vacuum and the board didn't leave the center of Wales, but it was the partners who left the center of Wales, and if there's a problem," said the counselor, "Galice will answer." But nothing answered about reconnecting the Galician Centre with Ospaña to give it an exit, which is what the partners are demanding. We insist: the Galego Center in Bos Aires is owned by partners, and we advocate because, respecting that property, if you give it this viability. We will clearly support in points 2 and 3 the initiative, the GNP presented by the Galician Nationalist Block, and we will make a — I would say — purely partial amendment to try to maintain the best possible relations in those necessary measures of cooperation with the Argentine Government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u267	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u268	In any case, what we demand from the German Government is that it clearly explains — and I hope so by the People's Group — what measures they have taken in accordance with Article 4 of the Galician Cultural Heritage Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u269	Thank you, Mr. Villoslada. We greet the students of the 1st ESO of the IES Vilar Ponte of Viveiro. Welcome to Parliament. And now if you have the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u270	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. The question of selling the building, debt and everything related to the intrinsic problem of the Galician Centre in Bos Aires is a problem — we understand — of Argentina's jurisdiction. There is little that can be done from here, because there is not — we know — a Spanish or a Greek body that has competence to intervene directly in an effective way. All the initiatives that are taking place in Galicia and Spain aimed at safeguarding, defending or preserving are proposals that contribute to the visibility of the problem, but they are not even enough; they are not even enough with institutional declarations. Another question — and the key issue for us — is the question of Spain, created in 2006. What was it created for? To promote the economic support of the Galego Centre, to provide solutions to the problems of the central crisis when the Junta had the management of the hospital. The Galician Center was the third foundational leg, and the reason for its origin, the Argentine entity needed to operate on the territory, for neither the Delegation of the Union nor the Embassy of Spain could do it on their own. The plan was simple. Ospaña, operating as a social work, could capture direct access to pensions and payrolls from its affiliates, which a mutuality couldn't do. It wasn't a bad plan on paper, but there were interference. The original plan, if it was really that one, was never fulfilled, but quite the opposite. The conclusion is that the people who drive to Spain are not interested in saving the Galician Center, but in doing their business with opacity. The subject is very, very serious, very serious. Ospaña can and should be monitored by the Spanish and Greek authorities, for being part of its board of directors of two administrations. Visit the pages of Ospaña and Mutouos. Who shows up as vice president of Ospaña? Mr. Alejandro López Dobarro. Who shows up as a mutuos voice? Mr. Alejandro López; the Dobarro does not appear there, but he is the same person. Mutouos is created as an ad hoc mutuality to move the Galego Center — this is the heart of the onion, the million of the question — after a controversial process of dubious validity, driven and promoted by officials of the Board and the Embassy itself. If not, ask Mr. Rodríguez Miranda and ask that Ambassador of Great Easter, too; they have answers. One of the central episodes of this outcome is that in 2015, with the Galego Center intervened by the Argentine State, the board of directors of Ospaña, what did you do? Carry out a change of status, but not only a change of status to exclude the Galician Center, but also a change in percentages, in internal decision-making, with which the institution loses strength and gains Mutuos. This is very important: not only was it replaced, it lost power. In practice — as the spokesperson of BNG, Ana Pontón, well said — this is a blunder in the face of future changes in government. What is missing, from our point of view, is a clarification of administrative responsibilities between Ospaña and the German and Spanish governments. The executives are officials. Do they act on a private basis or on behalf of the Union? Who's watching you? What ministry or counseling depends on? What is the procedure for which they are appointed or terminated? Do they report financial accounts to the Spanish State? This, at least, requires an explanation. The situation is quite unheard of. In Marea he also requested on 29 May and 3 October 2018 documentation on the statutes, the amendment, the composition of the board of directives and Act No 46. Looks like a black hole that needs to be clarified. We will support the BNG initiative, because we believe that the reintegration of the Centre in Spain would allow attention not only to current partners, but to the 70,000 partners in Spain, who could be cared for in that space, and guaranteed their future.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u271	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u272	It would be a good solution, but for that, the German Government and the state government must intervene. With regard to cultural heritage, we accept, if necessary, that inventory should be made, but it is also necessary to make it very clear that the owners are the Greeks in Argentina and that they must remain there in Bos Aires. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u273	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u274	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Mrs. Pontón, you have just come from Argentina, as you say, and maybe that's the motivation to bring this initiative here today. It looks good to us. What happens is, after listening to you, the truth is that you're really worried, because look, one of two: or that trip served you nothing to know what the real situation of the Galician Center in Argentina is, in Bos Aires, or deliberately you bring here a series of falsehoods with which you fill your intervention to seek I don't know that, of course, nothing good for the Greeks and the Greeks who reside in Argentina, nothing positive. The Galego Center in Bos Aires, as has already been said, is a cultural and social reference to Welsh emigration. It has also been said that it is a private entity, that it has a private cultural heritage and that it provides private health, and it is those partners who own that heritage that in 2011 — those partners — decide to disengage themselves from the Galicia Health Foundation and manage the hospital directly. Being Carlos Bello, the one who I know is his candidate, because you say you weren't the president of the meeting, which says, "Carlos Bello has reaffirmed that the best solution is that the Galician Center resumes the management of the hospital alone." Together, what did he do? He paid absolutely all the debt, 11 million euros, alone, although he had only 50% of the property, and the Galician Center took up that management alone. A year later, these same partners resort to the Argentine Government — see, from Macri now, but at that time from Mrs. Kirchner — and they are the ones who take the management of the hospital. Since then, when the debt counter was zero, because it was paid by the Government of Greece, until now, you don't know what debt is, because, in fact, no accounts have been settled since 2012, but, in any case, it exceeds $70 million. And do you intend that the German Government now go out in amparo and rescue of that debt that has generated the Argentine Government? To rescue private health in Argentina, to pay attention to the debt of the Argentine Government, which pays attention to about a thousand Greeks from the one hundred and seventy thousand who live in Argentina? That's BNG's policy, the new BNG's policy: privatization of health and paid with money from the Greeks private health, which is indebted to the Argentine Government. It's good that we know. But look, the health of the Argentines and the Argentines who live there but who are Welsh is guaranteed, because the health in Argentina is guaranteed. And if any German or Welsh has a problem for this to be so, the Spanish Government and the Greek have mechanisms to keep it from happening, so that they have absolutely guaranteed their health. And you talk here about Ospaña, too, and once again they say that it was the German Government who wanted to separate Ospaña from the Galician Center in Bos Aires. No, Mrs. Pontón, no, it was also the partners, who were the ones who had the power, who wanted to separate, and it was the partners who, if they want, would have to have those relationships again. But, look, it is that Ospaña, as it is said here, is a social work, the Galician Centre is a mutual, mutual; therefore, they cannot be merged; they may have agreements, they may have contracts, if they can do so, but it will depend on them. And, in any case, they're already taking care of them with the same quota and without any period of deficiency. So guaranteed the health of the Galicians and the Greeks who live in Argentina. I think that has to be very clear. With regard to the cultural part, to say that, indeed, fully according to you, that it is an emblem of emigration, a symbol of galeguity and that we have to protect it, of course! But look, there I fully agree with Mrs Cuña: one thing is that the Greeks consider that this belongs to us from the point of view that we feel it as our own and another thing is that we have the possession, because the possession of whom is it? It's from the Greeks and the Galicians of the Galego Center in Bos Aires, who own this. So nothing can be done without counting them. Look, just one question, Mrs. Pontón, because I wasn't quite clear how you intend to be that intervention: do you want it to be the Argentine Government, and in Argentine territory, where there's a government with very clear laws in this matter, or do you want us to expropriate it and bring it here? Because what we do have is what one of your liars thinks, Pilar García Negro, with those goods.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u275	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u276	What do you think? Because look, the support BNG wants for immigrants is often in doubt. And here it was just two months ago when you voted against having more facilities to carry out your right to vote, and it's back today when you leave nothing clear as to how you want to organize them and guarantee them that heritage that is theirs, even though — as I said — we have that feeling of belonging. And it's true that the German Government has to protect it, given that it's in the Argentine government and that it's from the owners, the partners of the Galician Center.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u277	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u278	The government has to protect him. All right. You're doing it, you're pending, you're having contacts with the president of the board himself, the councillor, the secretary general of Emigration, with the highest authorities. And you have no doubt that, if at any time you are in danger, you will not be allowed to be lost in any way.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u279	Thank you, Mrs Arias, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u280	President, just a second, please, to set out the amendment. Because the meaning of our amendment is simply a practical amendment for if we really want to protect the cultural heritage and protect the Galician Centre in Bos Aires, since we do so in view of the fact that they are private goods in Argentine territory.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u281	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u282	If you don't support her, Mrs. Pontón...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u283	Thank you. Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u284	...they won't be in favour of maintaining that heritage, because what you want here is illegal and can't be done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u285	Thank you. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u286	Thank you very much, Mr. President. To me the truth is that the People's Party never ceases to surprise. They're taking us to the nationalists that we travel so that we can be cured of nationalism all our life, and when we travel, it turns out that they bother the lords and ladies of the People's Party. Hurry up! [[Applause]] Because, of course — I leave it to you with absolute transparency here — the motivation that this initiative has is our commitment to emigration and our commitment to an action by the Galician Union to ensure the viability of that hospital and to ensure that the entire cultural heritage is not lost, is not ill-fated, does not end up ruined. That is the motivation we have, of course, to bring this initiative. And we see that at this beginning of 2019 the PP has one argument every time it denounces its incompetence or denounces its — I don't know if it calls it — corrupt them. Because I think, behind everything we're living here, in Ospaña, there's a lot to investigate. But the big argument that the People's Party now has is that everyone is lying when they report it hurts; that's the big argument that the People's Party has. Look, you've probably been misinformed. The Galician Center didn't want the Galician Health Foundation to be dissolved, no, no. Moreover, what brought about was a plan and a feasibility project that didn't even study President Feijóo. They'll know why, you'll know why. I'm surprised you say you can't have relations with the Argentine Government. But almost a year ago Macri and Feijóo had a meeting and talked about the Galician Center. What did Feijóo talk to Macri at that meeting? I think it would be very nice if we knew. Because if, of course, what you talked about was defending the interests of a private group of Spanish private health to privatize the Center, I already tell you that it doesn't contain us for that. What we propose on this initiative is, of course, an initiative for the future. And look, you're so misinformed that I imagine you're not aware of how the Galician Center was going to want to leave Ospaña when the Galician Center has gone through the decision that Ospaña was made to expel you? But please talk to a little bit of rigour and don't take our hair off all of us! [[Applause]] And I think it's important that you know what we're going to vote for. What we are going to vote on is a BNG proposal that literally says — because the manipulations that we want to remove the Greek heritage to the Greeks from emigration, no, no, we want it to be maintained — that we address ourselves to the Argentine authorities in order to paralyze the sale of the centre's hospital and seek a solution for the future, which includes the impulse of a plan of viability and the return of the centre of Galicia as an integrated entity in Ospaña, with the objective of preserving and ensuring the medical care and quality of current partners and partners and the involvement of the Argentine government in the restructuring of the Centre's debt generated by the intervention itself called the Government of Macri; that the necessary measures are taken, as laid down in the Greek legislation — because there are two laws that oblige the Union to act to preserve its heritage, that protect its artistic heritage...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u287	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u288	...—end—documental, bibliographic and editorial that owns the Galego Centre, and promotes an inventory work—which also obliges them—of all that heritage; and finally, support the declaration of the historic site of room 202 of the Galego Center of Bos Aires, where he remained incarcerated and died Alfonso Daniel Rodríguez Castelao, on January 7, 1950, and transferring to the Argentine Government the concern of Galicia for the danger of the disappearance of this emblematic space. This is what we're going to vote for.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u289	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u290	I'm telling you, because you're going to ask me later about the amendments, that we can't accept the amendment either of the Socialist Group or of the Popular Parliamentary Group; yes, that of En Marea, which is an amendment to add. And what I'm asking for here, formally, is that we vote point-by-point, point-by-point, because it's not worth excuses or profiling...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u291	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u292	...when the Greek heritage of emigration is at stake.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u293	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Patricia Otero Rodríguez and four other Members, on the impetus for the Galician Union of Initiatives to help resume the negotiation of the Fifth Framework Collective Convention of the Endesa Group
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u294	Amendments have been tabled by the Parliamentary Group on the Galician Nationalist Block and by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u295	To formulate the non-law proposition has the floor to Mrs. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u296	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. First of all, I want to greet the members of the Bridge works committee, who are with us today. The non-legislative proposal that we bring today to debate in this House is the result of the labor reform of the 2012 PP, which, apart from cutting down labour rights to the working class in our country, annihilated and fulmined something as fundamental as collective bargaining. [[Applause]] The assumption we're dealing with today is the loss of vigilance of the labor and social conditions of the collective agreement of Endesa. But this is not an isolated case: there are a lot of workers from different sectors in our autonomous community who today find themselves without a collective reference agreement, because the overdue agreement has fallen and the effects of the agreement that ended have not been extended, as if it had happened before. And you know, ladies and gentlemen, why does this happen? Because the Government of the PP, the Government of Mariano Rajoy, through this 2012 work reform, eliminated the ultraactivity of the conventions. Let's put ourselves in a position. The thermal power station of the Bridges, owned by Endesa, has about 300 active workers and about 2,000 liabilities, including retired and retired, widowed and widowed, orphans and orphans of workers and workers. This data shows how important this company is not only for The Bridges, but for the districts of Ferrolterra, Eume and Ortegal. Last December 27, the company's management broke unilaterally the negotiations of the Fifth Collective Convention of the Endesa group, after forty-eight meetings. Endesa, surprisingly, denounced the collective agreement, and I say surprisingly because, on the one hand, it is quite rare to denounce the agreements by companies and, on the other hand, did not do so for the purpose that seeks the legal figure of denouncing the agreements. To denounce an agreement means that one of the signatories, either the part of the workers or the part of the business, informs the other party of the intention to negotiate a new collective agreement. Endesa denounced the Fourth Framework Convention of the Endesa group, but without a clear negotiating will, with the sole aim of fulfilling the procedure and allowing the year to pass from its denunciation, not signing a new one, and, taking advantage of the limitation to one year of the ultraactivity of the agreements approved by the Government of the PP, to defuse the overdue agreement and thus obtain greater benefits at the cost of cutting workers' rights. [[Applause]] Endorses what you've shown throughout these months of alleged negotiation was a bad faith in negotiating, which culminated in the decision to unilaterally break down negotiations. The only thing he did was take advantage of the 2012 labour reform by taking advantage of this limitation of the ultraactivity of the conventions. Previously, from the date of the conclusion of an agreement to the signing and publication of the next agreement, the collective agreement overdue was extended and therefore the conditions contained therein. But since 2012, first, with Royal Decree No. 3/2012, which limited this ultraactivity to two years, and then, through Law No. 3/2012 of 6 July, urgent measures for labour market reform, this ultraactivity was limited to one year, while Article 86(3) of the Staff Regulations, drafted as follows: "Translapsed one year from the complaint of the collective agreement without a new agreement or an arbitral award has been reached, the latter will lose its vigency and, if necessary, apply the collective agreement of a higher scope than outside of application". Therefore, you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, have used a royal decree to cut down the rights of the working class, you who criticize President Sánchez so much that he governs the basis of decrees. But it is because they forget that President Mariano Rajoy, who, despite having an absolute majority and therefore would have no difficulty in adopting his laws in Parliament, in his first year of government passed twenty-nine decrees, but with a clear difference: while Mariano Rajoy cut workers' rights, those decrees passed by the Government of Pedro Sánchez allow them to regain rights, it is possible to increase the minimum interprofessional salary to 900 euros, to pay the salaries to officials, it is possible for the autonomous to cover temporary disability due to professional continence from the first day, to double the payment period for the cessation of activity in self-employed persons, to allow the autonomous to cover from the day following their fall in the autonomous regime that provision for cessation of activity. [[Applause]] So, Your Honor, we don't all use the decrees in the same way. Following the proposal that we are debating, as a result of that unilateral disruption of negotiations by Endesa and the fall of the Fourth Framework Convention, since January 1, 2019, what Endesa did — and that is what she was looking for from the beginning when she denounced the agreement — was to contractualize the terms of the agreement individually, with the risk that this implies to the workers, since the conditions that have been established by agreement are much more difficult to change than those laid down by a contract of employment. Let's also think about the shape of the substantial modification of working conditions, also flexible by the People's Government. In addition, the contractual conditions of a failed collective agreement apply only to workers who already enjoyed these conditions. Therefore, new incorporations are not applicable and neither are those who no longer have a contract with their own company. The Fourth Framework Convention of the Endesa group had collected a series of "social benefits", and I put social benefits among them because some of them should not be considered as such, as is the subject of the electricity tariff to be applied to the workers and passive classes of Endesa, which is really nothing but the amount of energy that workers receive as a kind payment and that when it comes to a payment in kind is paid by him. Social benefits were also collected in the Fourth Convention as aids for medical studies and insurance. All these improvements that are seen for active workers in principle seem to be respected by the contractualization of the conditions of the collective agreement. It's not the same with passive classes, because the so-called social benefits of those who came to enjoy, which they counted, and according to which they programmed their lives, have been without effect since January 1, 2019, and are not privileges, they are workers' rights. [[Applause]] Trade unions insist on the need to resume negotiations and reach agreements that benefit both parties to improve the economic conditions of workers, consistent with the excellent economic situation of the company. We understand that the administrations must put in place the necessary mechanisms and that they are within their reach in order to promote the resumption of these negotiations. We are aware that this is a collective agreement at the state level, but the Union is counting on the mechanisms that can help to resume these negotiations. The Ministry of Labour, Migration and Social Security has already sent a letter to Endesa on January 21st, through its general address, urging the Endesa group to reopen the table and resume the negotiation process, together with the recommendation to use autonomous means of settlement of conflicts to unlock the negotiation. The duty to negotiate under the principle of good faith - continues the Ministry's writing - this principle of good faith, as provided for in Article 89.1 of the Staff Regulations, prevents collective bargaining processes from being unilaterally closed in the form in which it occurred in this case. It considers the Ministry's Directorate-General for Labour that the latter clause on the end of the ultraactivity regime is not sufficient for the company to unilaterally give up collective bargaining and dissolves the negotiating commission, especially when it has not been believed that mandatory mediation or voluntary arbitration has been instituted to resolve situations of blockade, as recommended in good faith to negotiate paragraph VI of the present agreement on employment and collective bargaining. Because the Government of Spain is in favour of regaining the ultraactivity of collective agreements, so that these situations are not repeated and because of the importance that Endesa has for The Bridges and its region, that is why we present this proposal, that we hope that it will go ahead with the support of all the groups present. What we ask for in this initiative is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u297	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u298	...—endorsed, President—that the Galician Parliament urges the Council of Galicia to: 1)To take forward its own initiatives, or either through the Galego Labour Relations Council, which help to resume the negotiation of the Fifth Framework Collective Convention of the Endesa Group; and 2)To request the Government of the State to recover the ultraactivity of collective agreements. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u299	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. Mr Rivas Cruz has the floor by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u300	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. Good morning, gentlemen of the Bridge. I come here in the name of BNG to tell you the story of two loots, incardinated at each other. It's a chapter more of the continued spole of the voyeurs, of the insatiable bands of nameless capitalism that nourishes itself from the dividends that generates the working class; that liberalism that the People's Party stands up as a flag and that forces that say left-wing were supported by their cowardly silence, made idle and quiet. Because Ferroatlántica, Alcoa, Meirama and what we are dealing with today, Endesa, are the warm account of the dismantling calculated in millionaire performances of a business that has no feelings, which plays with the lives of workers with a masked coldness of negotiation where these bosses — who, speaking of the neo-democratic liberals, are the ones who generously give us work and bread — and what they want is that we are eternally grateful. Well, they take off the carauta today and show off with the real face full of rotten bladders. Because Endesa, that public company that included in its negotiations with the workers those social benefits already mentioned and which gave her that familiar character and painted for a certain humanity the relationships of work, that corporate culture from which both managers and workers were proud, that Endesa died when she became Enel. The reduced rates of electricity or the aid for studies equal to any category of worker, sometimes in the negotiations of the conventions, made it possible for them to give up wage increases in order to strengthen those who earned the least from those social benefits that they now want to steal from them. Because these new generation banduls are more dilated and want more and more, they want everything, everything; the calderella also deserves to be polished and divided. This is the first looting of what they were talking about, supported by that legality of the People's Party that they say we were getting out of the crisis but that it certainly brought us in the wage winter, because the labour reform that so many dividends have given to the hungry banduls of the looting business class has the signature of the People's Party. We do not speak of the 1,400 million euros of business gain; we speak of 900 million euros, which is the value that is given to those benefits that now want to rob the workers, protected by that damn reform; miserable, each other; for stealing and others for making the laws in which the theft is covered. These are the reasons for the first amendment, urgent measures that precede the derogation from wage reform. Is there or is there not enough courage now that he played to give wheat? There are still remains in the air of the friar of workers' mobilisations. Was it theater? No, it's political cowardice for now. It is therefore time for President Sánchez to fulfill his promise to recover the ultraactivity of collective agreements. But the most important thing about the GNP is what it doesn't say: it doesn't talk about the political problem, about the sale of a public enterprise in a strategic sector to another state company, in this Italian case, and about the systematic emptying and decapitalization that Enel is doing in Endesa, and there should be political responsibilities. Do you remember, ladies and gentlemen, that Inespal also became Alcoa this way? Do you remember that state administrator, the president of the Spanish Government, who gave us the goods that were not his, and who took us out of a crisis to keep us in leather? And now to the old Endesa, converted into Enel, everything is little to her and she wants to go in emptying the workers' pockets, something that does no other electricity from the state, and not even the same Endesa in the companies she participates in: the vandellos nuclear power stations, Almaraz. And once again there's the People's Party's quality stamp, the gift made by Government Aznar, the policy of a public enterprise with benefits to be offered in sacrifice for the sake of the fictitious competition of the liberal God of the market and the undercover business. This is our second amendment to addendum: demand for the State Government and the CNMV to produce a report on the decapitalization of Endesa by Enel and the expatriated profits via dividends by Enel in the energy sector of the Spanish State, as well as to clear up the political responsibilities needed by the loss of public control over the energy sector; that is, we want to know the tale of the police and the officials; is it much to ask? And here we are, with the German industrial sector wounded in death and the President of the Government of Galicia leaving their functions, without showing enough political value...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u301	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u302	...and come here — already mentioned, Mr President — to demand in this Parliament a unit of action in defence of the interests of the workers and the economy of this country, which can no longer lose any more industrial fabric. In this case we talk about about about 4,000 people, between assets and liabilities, who are threatened by their legitimate rights. They all have names and surnames, all of them citizens of the first, at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u303	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. On behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado Filgueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u304	Thank you, Mr. President. It must be seen, Mr Rivas, as it costs the BNG to criticize the Socialist Party; much lyrical, but ultimately concocted, buying, with the Socialist Party. It's normal, it's normal, because, moreover, BNG's bravery, none; what we see is that they eventually live with the Socialist Party where they can, even in the MPs you want to eliminate, and therefore come here talking you don't know very well about that, but at all talked about what happens at the Bridges. Mrs. Otero, Mr. Pedro Sánchez has promised two things: the first, nothing more to come to Moncloa: I will repeal labour reform; the second, I will convene elections. Not one or the other. That's the reality. Look, I'm glad from the Popular Parliamentary Group that we're here today talking about the collective agreement of Endesa. I'm glad we're talking about it, not that Endesa in the Bridges closes its thermal power plant in advance, as socialists want. I'm glad we're talking today about the collective agreement and not what's happening in Meirama. But do you know why that happened? Because the company undertook to make investments of 217 million euros while the previous government was still there. I'm sure if those investments were not engaged at that time, Endesa would be in the Bridges, in the same situation that we are in Meirama today. And, therefore, I think you address Endesa's problem in part, forgetting half the story. Do you know we want the neighbors of the districts of Ferrolterra, Eume and Ortegal? That Endesa at the Bridges remains open until the year 2045. Do you know what your party wants? Close it in 2030 or before. You are fanatics, yes, of the energy transition, of the ecological transition. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There you are. I confess, in any case, that I am tremendously surprised by this initiative, because we are seeing it -- I ask them not to force me to speak higher, because I cannot, simply because I cannot, I am used to speaking it, because I am always interrupted permanently, but today I ask them why I can't, because I can't do it -- as the Greek Socialists ask the Galician Council to address the central government to solve a problem of a company that has a state-wide agreement. Make a trick, send a trick! And I wonder: haven't you found out that the Socialist Party is ruling in Spain yet? Have you not found out that you can present this to the Congress of Deputies? No, no. Look, you rule in the Council of Bridges, which seems to be what they care about, govern in the MP and rule in the state. How little do you trust yourself socialists to ask the Union to solve what it has to solve or mediate its own government? Or is it just hypocrisy, socialist hypocrisy, from which we have known so much over the last seven months? [[Applause]] Look, it's just that you promised to derogate work reform. Why didn't they? Yesterday we saw how socialist leaders were very satisfied with the employment data of 2018; half a million jobs created, thanks to whom?: the labour reform approved by the People's Party. It's just that you left six million unemployed in Spain, six million unemployed, and today, thanks to our work reform, so disenfranchised by you and not by you, we're around three million unemployed. [[Applause]] Therefore, hypocrisy, no, thank you, gentlemen of the Socialist Party. [[Murmurs.]] We tabled an amendment because we want to support the demands of Endesa workers at the Bridges. They don't think we're going to approve your initiative. If we want you to leave here today with a proposal for support and support for the workers, they have our amendment to vote for it. In any case, if they don't, we'll bring this initiative, this amendment turned into an initiative... why don't you shut up, please? [[Murmurs.]] Of course, this is permanent.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u305	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u306	What are you complaining about? Why don't you shut up? Listen, now it's your turn to listen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u307	Silence, silence, please, silence, all, silence. Quiet, quiet! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u308	We tabled an amendment with which we intend to achieve a broad consensus. At the first point of our amendment, the same thing you have submitted...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u309	Silence! On that bench especially. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u310	...the Marea Group in the Congress of Deputies, is exactly what In Marea demands in the Congress of Deputies, which says that the Government demands the Endesa Group to resume negotiating a new framework agreement respecting the current negotiating table and, while not formalizing, to keep the conditions set out in the Fourth Framework Convention active. The second point says: applying the provisions of the Fourth Framework Agreement for Employment and Collective Negotiation 2018-2020, signed in July 2018, with consensus with social agents, negotiated by the Government of the People's Party and signed by its Government. They have enough votes to get to Moncloa. They use those vows to fulfill their commitments and, if not, they don't come here to do permanent demagogy and hypocrisy. I'd like to hear...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u311	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u312	...that the Socialist Party in Galicia commits itself to the maintenance of the thermal power plant of the Bridges until 2045 and then the workers of the Bridges, the workers of Endesa in the Bridges, will know that the Socialist Party has a real commitment to the districts of Ferrolterra, Eume and Ortegal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u313	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u314	The other thing is to come here and make political trilerism. Very good morning.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u315	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Lago Peñas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u316	Good morning. The ability of the People's Party to change speech is extraordinary.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u317	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u318	When the motion of censure, Mr. Tellado said that this would cause a ruin in employment, which would sink the economy. Today he claims that a lot of jobs have been created in the Spanish economy, in the second part of the year, and says thanks to his job reform.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u319	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u320	Mr. Tellado, you can't say...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u321	Silence! Excuse me, Mr. Lago, excuse me for a moment. Quiet, please! Silence! Otherwise, I'm gonna have to start calling the order. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u322	Mr. Tellado, you can't say one thing and you can't say the opposite. Mr Tellado, what leads to employment is economic growth, what made the job reform precarious and low-wage employment, and that is the responsibility of the People's Party. [[Murmurs.]] Now, he's not the only one to blame. I shall read a sentence: "The first step the next Socialist Government will take will be to repeal Rajoy's labour reform, to recover workers' rights as soon as possible." June 2nd, motion of censure. Seven months have passed. What is the Socialist Party waiting for to fulfill his word? [[Murmurs.]] Last day 11 we were together on the streets of the bridges -- PP I don't know; the others, yes -- to defend the labor and social rights of thousands of people, who are being attacked by Endesa. And today we are going to vote in favour of that non-law proposal, because we agree to defend the interests of the workers. But we have to make things clear. Endesa's decision to denounce the collective agreement and to block negotiation is a policy for active and passive workers who demonstrate that we are facing an insatiable company, capable of everything to maximize profits, which then divides into dividends. You know I like numbers. Over five years, the tariff deficit in five years has earned EUR 8.195 million. But what's most surprising: do you know that you did Endesa with 8,195 million euros that won the company? He distributed 100 percent in dividends, not a euro to capitalize on the company, not one, all in dividends. Endesa is the acronym of National Electricity Company, Anonymous Society, because yes: it was a public company until Aznar privatized it, and now that public company cheats on citizenship, with abusive rates proper to the Spanish electric oligopolie, since it has a profitability that doubles the average of the sector in Europe. But he doesn't have enough, he wants more; so now he cuts the rights of his staff, using torturing the weapons that put in his hands the labour reform of the People's Party. That's why PP is also responsible for Endesa's theft. Let me say this: the text of a collective agreement reflects the history of a company, of agreements and disagreements, of strikes, gains and advances, sometimes in the form of wages, sometimes in the form of social rights, which are not privileges but indirect wages and deferred wages. Removing a deal is deleting the company's social biography, eradicating its history. The labour reform of the PP allows an unscrupulous address, which only seeks to maximize benefits, to liquidate from a pen the rights attained by workers for decades of effort and struggle. And that's exactly what Endesa did: end with the vigil of the collective agreement, acting in bad negotiating faith, and then implement the labour reform of the People's Party, liquidating the social rights of 28,000 liabilities, 4,000 of them in Galicia. That's why we have to ban labour reform, so we have to recover the ultraactivity of the conventions, so we don't understand what the Socialist Party is waiting for to do. Pedro Sánchez spoke in the election campaign. The Socialist Party has a commitment to the majority of the motion of censure to derogate labour reform. It has a reinforced commitment to En Marea and the Confederal Group of the United States. We can only have a month ago when we negotiate with the budget. It has a commitment to the Workers' Commissions and UXT that it will repeal labour reform. That's why, comrades and comrades of the Socialist Party, Mrs. Otero, ended with the same question I started with: why don't you do it? Why don't you derogate from the People's Party's Labour Reform? Why is his word not true, giving his back to the workers of Endesa, to the working class of Galician and to the workers of the whole state? Why don't you?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u323	Thank you very much, Mr. Lago. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Otero Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u324	Thank you, President. To go in line with the amendments tabled, say we're going to accept the first of the amendments tabled by the Galician Nationalist Block. The Government of Pedro Sánchez is committed to recovering the ultraactivity of the conventions and will do so. And we agree with them, with the nationalist group, that it is necessary that this recovery of the ultraactivity of the conventions be done retroactively and that it also enables those who have already been affected by the collective agreement. [[Applause]] Well, I think we should focus our debate on the proposal that the Socialist Group has tabled, and I understand that it is right that the Galician Nationalist Block should present the second of the amendments, but I think it was not objective today of the non-law proposal that we socialists put forward, which was mainly to resume these negotiations towards the collective agreement, the negotiation of the Fifth Collective Convention, which I think is now a matter of priority and what matters most to the workers, who today, in fact, also presented this demand for collective conflict, and that it would be more appropriate to deal with this for a long time. We understand that it is in your right and that we encourage you to present some initiative, in which we can even share some of your ideas. I'm very sorry about Mr. Tellado's suffocation, which today he couldn't vehemently defend the rights of the workers and the passive classes of Endesa, which was what we betrayed in our proposal, he was affront that he might also be provoked by some kind of political fanaticism and that he's not getting his account right at these municipal elections in some municipalities. [[Applause]] Demagoxy, demagoxy and hypocrisy are yours. Demagoxy and hypocrisy are those of the leaders of the People's Party, who say that they present an amendment in the sense of the proposal presented by the Socialist Group, but that's not true: the amendments they present are a toast to the sun, because what they say is that the Government of Spain is demanding Endesa to resume this negotiation of the convention and that, until a new one is negotiated, the effects of the collective agreement which has fallen. But if you, the Government of Mariano Rajoy, cancelled the ultraactivity of the conventions. If the ultraactivity of the agreements is not guaranteed by law, how are we going to leave it in the hands of companies, who can agree with the workers to see when they are and when the effects of collective agreements are not extended? And we've seen that this is not Endesa's case, because the company wasn't about negotiating anything, it was about letting the collective agreement collapse. Just remind him that it was Aznar who left Endesa without a single public participation. And also, if you read the papers, UGT and Commissions, you regret that there are not enough votes to derogate labour reform. Join, join...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u325	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u326	...join, PP gentlemen, and support the workers' rights recovery. If they don't, don't come to this House demanding us something that you later fall into the Congress of Deputies. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u327	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. We moved on to the next non-law proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and ten other Members, on the support of the Galician Parliament to the Galician Union in its request to the Government of Spain for an immediate response to the proposal to establish a stable electrical framework and a competitive electric price to electrointensive companies
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u328	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Losada Álvarez; the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Mr Casal Vidal; and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Presas Bergantinos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u329	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mr. Tellado Filgueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u330	Thank you, President. We are parliamentarians and we are obliged to speak, and to lose our voice. I think it's part of the job. It's a professional disease in any case. Good afternoon again. On October 17, 2018, the German industry took a heavy blow. The announcement of multinational Alcoa's intention to close the factories of Avilés and the Coruña caused all the alarms to be skipped. The next minute that announcement was made by the company, the Galician board began working to coordinate institutional action. We started working with the State Government, we got working with the Principality of Asturias, we got working with the Town Councils. The Industry Councillor the following week was coming in this same Parliament, and this group, the People's Parliamentary Group, presented an initiative, which we put on the table, to provide solutions to that conflict; an initiative which was also agreed with the opposition groups and approved unanimously. From the very first moment to the workers, to the maintenance of jobs, to the maintenance of our industry. In these months we've had a lot of discussion about the situation of Alcoa. All groups have brought different initiatives in this regard, all groups have made every effort to maintain something we considered essential in this matter, which was to maintain unity of action on such a delicate subject as this. Everyone invaded, I think, the despair of thinking for moments that we were walking in circles, because there were people on both sides of the conflict who were not doing their work: on the one hand, the direction of Alcoa; and, on the other, the Government of Spain. We often asked Alcoa to withdraw the ERE so we could make time and find a negotiated solution that could satisfy all sides. And we also ask on many occasions, on several occasions, the Government of the State to exercise its powers to establish a stable energy framework for the coming years — starting with running the 150 million euros recorded in the 2018 budget to compensate businesses for the high cost of electricity and thus to help their competitiveness. Once again, from the majority parliamentary group, from the People's Parliamentary Group, we want to be clear: we don't want him to close Alcoa, as no political group wants. I'm sure everyone agrees that we don't want Alcoa's closure, that everyone agrees that we don't want to shut down Ferroatlantic, nor do we want to shut down any of the electrointensive companies that give employment to nothing but 5,000 Galicians and Greeks — like Megasa, Finsa, or Ence. We're not like the parties who say they're worried about jobs and industry in the country and then celebrate the alleged success of closing companies or that others decide not to settle in our country. We believe in employment, we believe in industry, we believe in the abilities of the Greek workers. And we believe that only by worrying about our productive sectors can we get Galicia to be a land that it has in mind and that it also has a lot of future. We'd like the Central Government to share our concern too, and we think it doesn't. He does not share the concern of either the People's Parliamentary Group or the rest of the opposition groups. Almost since his take of possession, the Government leading Pedro Sánchez could say that he entered the so-called "aircraft mode" in the case of Pedro Sánchez is "Falcon mode". Survive over reality, waiting for problems to be solved by themselves or for another to solve them. [[Murmurs.]] That "flight mode" means disconnecting from reality, not taking any of the problems and saying, "Hey, I'm here because I'm the president of the government, right?Oh, my God! That "plane mode" is a real threat to the Greek industries, to the electro-intensive industries. And we think that ruling is much more than that. It's not government. It's government. It's government. It's not government. To govern is to make decisions, to govern is to deal with problems, to govern is to seek solutions. However, what we have with Mr. Pedro Sánchez is a government that has become a problem. Not only does it not offer solutions to the problems that are on the table, but the Government is in itself a problem. The Government of Spain has only called for a post covering the first half of this year 2019, in which it has contributed fewer blocks of 40 megawatts to the intensive industry and has reduced more than a third, more than a third!, the allocation by the interruptability service. This way, the scheduled match for this year will not even be run. So we don't even have a provisional solution on the table, at a time when we need not only temporary solutions but we need medium-term solutions. And this is not a new concern for the German Government or for the majority of Parliamentarians who support it. Before summer, in June 2018, when he took possession of the new Government, even before Alcoa's announcement of closure, both President Feijóo and the Industry Adviser conveyed to the representatives of the Government of Spain the need to define a stable energy framework, an energy framework that allows our industry to be competitive in international markets. In spite of what socialists say, ruling is acting, but governing is listening too. This Government of the Union has listened to the demands of Galicia's electro-intensive industrial sector, and we are in an emergency situation, of course. And as such, we must face measures of the same silence and we must face them with the hand of the Government of Spain, who has the competence to put them into effect. So we are taking an initiative because we believe that there is a lot at present at stake in Galicia: thousands of direct and indirect jobs, the dismantling of companies that are key to some areas with low industrialization and unemployment problems, and the loss of factories that are without doubt contributing, and decisively, to our gross domestic product and which are tractors of our economy. That's why this group is not going to stand by, it's not going to wait for time to pass and for the socialist government to dilapide, but what we want to do is act. We're not willing to be a mere spectator, and that's why we're bringing today a management support initiative that's being carried out in Galicia in search of solutions that can be a big short-term problem if we don't act. We have brought this initiative, which consists of six points: the first, the immediate implementation of the statute of the electrointensive industry in which the different types must be defined on the basis of electricity and the periods in which it is consumed; the second, the reduction of transport costs; the third, the call for compensatory aid for CO2 emissions costs; the fourth, the exemption of the regulated cost corresponding to capacity payments; the next, the preparation of a study of the technical losses incurred by these industries; and the latter, the request for these measures to be applied retroactively from the beginning of this year. We really need the Government to abandon the "Falcon Mode", we need the Government of Sánchez to abandon the "Airplane Mode", the Government Delegate to stop taking pictures with shirts and do what a real government delegate in Galicia has to do. And if he's not able to do it, let him reach his shoulder and add himself to those who are willing to work, so that we can make and search for solutions among all. We all know that government solutions are causing a perfect storm in the electro-intensive industry sector, because it reduces incentives to power stations, because it increases the cost of CO2 emissions and because it's not opening up compensation mechanisms. We have a government of cross arms, a government that has become one more part of the problem of the electrointensive industry in Galicia. So we bring an initiative with an intention: to work together, to work together, if we really want to bet on the electrointensive industry and the maintenance of the jobs it generates. We believe that it is necessary to bet on an electro-intensive industry which competes on equal terms with the rest of Europe's companies. So today we bring an initiative in agreement, and what we ask of the Greek Socialist Members is that they choose to support Pedro Sánchez and his inaction or to support the demands of the Greek workers of the electrointensive industry. Either we abandon the plane mode, the falcon mode, or the electrointensive industry will suffer serious consequences. And therefore, as I am sure that all of us who are part of this House, all of us who represent the Greek people, are very concerned about the electrointensive industry in Galicia, I'm sure we will be able to reach an agreement. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u331	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. You have the floor by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Noa Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u332	Good afternoon. I have to tell you, Mr. Tellado, I have to confess to you, that the truth is that the People's Party does not cease to surprise me, and not just because you had come like this with a calmer tone—I imagine that, partly, motivated by the state of your throat—; the truth is that they do not cease to surprise me, and the question is that they do not cease to surprise me for harm. Because I don't believe in the exercise of the absolute hypocrisy that you just came here to do. We're at an absolute moment of crisis in the Welsh industry, not only in the electro-intensive industry, and you're here acting with frivolity as if you hadn't just destroyed, with your lack of industrial policy, more than 8,500 jobs in the last year, so I'm going to do a sort of Google translator and explain what you just did here, for those who aren't as involved in the issue as if to shut up, the people we're in the Industry Commission. [[Applause]] What I have here, in my hand, is the mission that Mr. Conde sent back to parliamentary groups, among other agents, last January 8th, 2019, twenty-two days ago. And that's exactly the proposal you bring us. I mean, twenty-two days ago the Industry Counsellor unilaterally sent a proposal to Madrid, which they did not, by the way, give him any case. And instead of reporting here why they didn't do any case to you or bring new proposals or have previously done something together with us, they come here to tell us that we applauded Mr. Conde's failed strategy. [[Applause]] That's what you just did here, Mr. Tellado, telling us -- yes, covered in a rhetoric that almost thrills me -- that we work together and together, yes, and also that we don't stay with our arms crossed. Well, if you don't keep your arms crossed with this subject, you're a little vague, Mr. Tellado. Above all, they justify the urgency of their initiative by saying that, in the face of this crisis, Parliament has to take a stand. But, look, Mr Tellado, this Parliament has taken a position three months ago with a minimum agreement in which we all yield, in which we all yield, and that you failed. [[Applause]] Yes, yes, yes, indeed! You brought them, because you had information and you knew, before Alcoa officially announced the closure, what would happen; because they incorporated this initiative into the agenda before the official announcement, Mr. Tellado, that we all know each other! The point is, everything you haven't been doing before is your previous job. And you, perhaps, should take note of the advice you're given there, by Ourense, and take a little awareness that you have to do something more than think about the photo, think about selfie, and do something more than think about insults, actually. [[Applause]] Because what you want today is a picture of opposition groups doing what they do, and that we use their policy of doing what they do with an initiative that has already been transferred to the central government as a unilateral position. That's what you want. And we're not willing and willing to do them alibi. We therefore tabled a series of amendments to improve their initiative. And we appeal, once again, first of all, to the explanation and constitution of that plural table to which they have committed themselves, where the social part is also represented, and not what they have done at this time, which is unilaterality and not even respond to the proposals that emerge from this country. Because I remind you that the majority union — although it is difficult to do so — of this country, and of the electro-intensive industry, has long transferred a proposal to Mr. Conde — that there are also issues that are in common with what you are moving here today. And they didn't even answer them, not even! They were received in Europe by a lord of the People's Party and you didn't even answer them in Galicia. That's the balance you have to account for here today, Mr. Tellado. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] However, there is something I share with you. We'd like the Central Government to actually commit to Alcoa and stop being part of the problem as well. But I would also like the German Government to exercise as such, because you have an attitude in which, of course, they have to blame them and then they look to the other side. And ask us to have courage. So we ask him the same thing and that's why we improve his proposal. Because you, as far as we are concerned, do not make it clear or who is going to pay it — that we understand that it has to be the state's general budgets, not consumers and consumers. Nor do they clarify that everything must be linked to job fixing and development of some kind of industrial plan. That's why in our amendment, in front of this moment in which we are — if in the next few days if for the electrolysis process, it's going to be very difficult to find a buyer or buyer — we ask them to incorporate the social part into negotiations. We call for them to defend the change in the pause system and to link it to the maintenance of employment. That's what we demanded from you a few months ago, even if they voted against; and we followed Mr. Sánchez's demand, Mr. Tellado. Because we don't marry anyone. But we understand that we have to take more steps forward and that, therefore...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u333	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u334	...even though there are issues, such as the status of the intensive industry, in which we agree and that we have already voted in favour on other occasions, we must go further. To begin with, it's also time for you to courageously ask from Galicia to the Central Government to raise the veto to public intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u335	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u336	We insist, we can't go on with this ostrich policy that they've been practicing since Galician Union...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u337	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u338	...that they don't want to hear anything but themselves...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u339	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u340	...and let's come here and applaud them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u341	Thank you. Your time is up. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u342	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. The truth is, Mr. Tellado, I don't know if you remember the Emeritus King when he said, "Why don't you shut up?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Remember, too, that then he said, with compound appearance, "I won't do it again." I really recommend that you moderate the imperative. [[Applause]] I, who also have a certain character, can understand it. [[Applause]] But, in any case, I think moderate the imperative is good. Look, the Government of Pedro Sánchez did one thing: through a perfectly constitutional mechanism, a government drowned in corruption. And that's why it's worth it, it's why it's worth it, Mr. Tellado! [[Applause]] And I do some other slaughter too. I understood his expression that "governance is to hear." I remember or "fuck the unemployed!"when the unemployment rate was 25%. Of course, listen, no doubt. And the truth is, you shouldn't probably say it, but I can't resist it: I understand you're upset by Falcon and Airbus 310, but, look, between a Falcon or an Airbus 310 of the Air Force to travel and a yacht of a drug dealer, I'm pretty clear where the president of a country has to go. I'm absolutely clear! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] You talked about T-shirts, too. I, in the previous intervention, spoke of Rueda and Andalusia, spoke of the president and the fires. And now it's about industry, of course. "Rajoy was sensitive to the F110 frigates." It was wrong, Rajoy was sensitive to the results account of Minister Morenés' company, of course! If I'm a defamator, the judge; if I'm a defamator, the Supreme or the TSJ, which I think is what touches. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] All right! [[Murmurs.]] No, no, he's... he can go to the TSJ. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u343	Silence! You have another shift later. That's right. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u344	And I'm also very enticing about t-shirts. I remind you, legitimately — I don't like to put them on because already with a certain overweight... at last, for that aesthetic reason exclusively, not political — I remind you, too, with a T-shirt, yes, of Navantia. Yes, yes, perfectly! [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Another thing is he doesn't remember, but yes... yes, yes! [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] And then at this initiative -- I do what I say to you -- after all these killings, I'm going to tell you that, regardless of whether you accept the amendment -- and I think you should accept it because I think that I put the whole focus of the problem in the Spanish Government because it's very comfortable because they have absolute majority but something could do to the Greek Government in addition to coordinating, as you said; because coordination is very good, but there are powers, and then, if I give myself time, some will talk -- because it would be good, first, to realize that the problem goes beyond Alcoa and energy. Because the problem of deindustrialization in Galicia is much more intense than in Spain as a whole. And that will not be the fault of the Government of Pedro Sánchez. I want to remind you of EPA's data published yesterday. While in Spain as a whole they lost 3,000 in the industrial sector — in Spain — in the last year, only 3,600 were lost in Galicia. Only in Galicia were 3,600 busy last year while in Spain they lost 3,000. Even the billing of industrial production has decreased since Mr Feijóo's rule, at 10%. So there's a target problem of deindustrialization. And you yourself — Mr Tellado — have signed an amendment in Commission 6 which states that "the Galician Parliament urges the Government of the State, in cooperation with the Galician Council, to promote industrial policy measures" — on Alcoa is the subject. I do what I do in my amendment is precisely to propose those industrial policy measures that should accompany the Council of Galicia to what is the industrial policy of the Government of Spain. And it's pretty simple, because, in fact, there's a problem with energy prices in Alcoa, but the company itself has recognized that it's not just a problem with energy prices, because there's a problem with innovation, there's a problem with training; it's finally, there's a problem with industrial fabric in the metal mechanics industry as a whole. And, in view of that, I want to read the memory of the budgets of the Galician Union within the competences: "Promoting the development of provisions for the establishment and development of energy policy management; encouraging participation in energy research and development programmes and projects; encouraging the participation and implementation of endogenous-based energy production systems; encouraging the participation of Galician companies in the energy programmes of the European Union." Hey, that's the powers of the Galician board recognized in their budgets. So I don't know if you're going to accept the amendment or not, but I'd like to know... You're now getting to the Palestinian, of alternative radicals, because they don't rule in Madrid. But this is a problem that is not just the Government of Spain...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u345	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u346	Mr. Tellado, as you well know. And I want to remember what Mr. Count said in the previous Alcoa crisis in 2016. He wrote -- because it was in a newspaper -- that the Galician Union would always be there for what Alcoa needed. And I want to know -- the truth is that I asked you with little success -- what you needed, what you asked...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u347	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u348	...and what was given to him from the Government of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u349	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u350	Because — I insist — it was Mr. Count...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u351	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u352	...what he wrote...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u353	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u354	...that Galicia would always be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u355	Your time is up. Thank you. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, Mr. Losada. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u356	Good afternoon. When we're talking in agreement, of consensus, the reality is that the Galician Union has driven a work table solely with the companies that all the media in Galicia have called "the galley lobby of electrointensives." This kind of work table clearly violates the unanimous agreement which has been taken in this Parliament. It seems that the Galician Council is talking about things in this Parliament and then the government does the opposite, that is, it meets solely with the companies of the electro-intensive lobby. And, of course, obviously, as the table was made up, so came the conclusions. And the conclusions of that table are those which the People's Party, the People's Group, directly transfers to this LNP. And, of course, it is clear that the lobby — as is natural — calls for compensation, aid, reduction of tariffs, exemption of costs, etc. But, as you can see, the Government of the Union — which said it was to defend the workers of these companies and that it should have a sustainable industrial plan for Galicia — did not propose anything at that meeting. Because there is no contribution in this sense in the non-law proposal and in the statement that the advisor sent us later to that lobby meeting. Only the interests of these companies appear, so for us it is clear the position of the People's Party and the interests that it really defends and which it makes clear here today in a very clear manner. And so things like what's happening in Ferroatlantica and Cee, we'll talk about this afternoon. See if the Galician Union actually acts not only in view of the position of companies. And, of course, all these requests, all these lobby requests, they charge the state and the electrical system; that is, all the rest of the electricity consumers and all the citizens. No measure that combats the basis of the problem: the policy of electricity companies that determine one of the most expensive tariffs in Europe. Because this is the real problem that mortgages the future not only of the electrointensive but of the entire industry, and that drowns the homes and leads them to energy poverty. That is, the electricians continue to feed, and the citizens, through their taxes, or consumers, through the receipt of light, to pay. And all of this without any guarantee for the employment and industrial maintenance of plants, and without any social counterpart and industrial plans. It seems that at that meeting the councillor forgot all this. It's forgotten who's going to pay for all this and what social compensation should be implied for both citizens, through taxes, as well as consumers, through the receipt of light, to give them these hundreds, or sometimes more than a billion, of euros that go through all the concepts. Therefore, from En Marea we agree with the measures proposed by the LNP with an amendment to point 1. Because, just as paragraph 1 is drafted, even though I've been collecting a proposal that I've been putting in Marea for two years, what's wrong is that I pick it up. Because they talk about setting different levels of electrointensives, but they talk about the intensity of their consumption. And this is not the important thing, the important thing is not whether you consume too much or if you consume too little. The important thing is that part of the electrical cost, which part, is about the total costs. That is, equally important is the interruptability for a company that consumes a lot — and that much is a lot of respect for its costs — than for another that consumes less but that the proportional part about its costs is also very important. That's the difference. That's why it lowered the pause, it wasn't because the government had gone down... He didn't come down, the government didn't lower the budget. It's just that companies didn't need the interruptability they offered below; that's to say, it was a problem of the kind of companies that got into the posse. That is what we agree that we should change, but — I say — taking into account what we put forward in our amendment. Afterwards, we could approve all that, but always and when the guarantees and the counterparties were. Those guarantees and those balances go to the seven points that we add to your proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u357	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u358	If you really agree to comply with the agreement we have had from all over this Parliament, you should approve all other points. Because it cannot be — I say — that citizens and consumers of electricity pay and there is no guarantee. If there are no such guarantees that go along with the rest of our proposals, In Marea cannot support this so biased proposal, this proposal that only looks at the interests of the lobby of electro-intensive companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u359	Thank you, Mr. Casal. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u360	Thank you, Mr. President. Many have changed things for some, who are housed, docile, before the Government of Spain; some because they live with them in the Deputies or where they can, and others because they were taken to Moncloa. So, now we see a buying speech, you're bourgeois, you're bourgeois. That's reality, they're docile comrades of the Socialist Party. [[Applause]] Everything seems very good to you. Mrs. Presas, I would like to thank you for your recommendation on Ourense. He understands that he doesn't care, because you're not to boast in Ourense, that they don't even have a concierge. Look, frivolity is mixing the Welsh electric fare and I don't know what, and taking the scuba to its sardine, as always does the BNG with problems. You hold on with that dedication to the Socialist Party, and I suppose they'll follow that important progression. And the tides are the same. How will the Tides criticize the Government of Pedro Sánchez for not doing anything in favour of the intensive industry if they took him to the Government, to Moncloa, if they took him with their parliamentary support? And, therefore, you go to Coruña and tell the Alcoa workers, these 400 families, that you are on the side of Sanchez; and that in this Alcoa, then, listen... the Government of Spain is for other things, right? And then I wanted to reply to Vigo's delegate in the Galician Parliament, Mr. Losada, because, look, it's very ugly to hide behind parliamentary inviolability to say things you shouldn't say if you don't have proof. You are installed in the permanent, permanent cowardly defamation, which is inappropriate of a serious parliament. You've preferred to talk about anything but alcohol and the electrointensive industry. And that's disrespect for the Greek workers, that's lack of respect for them. [[Applause]] I understand that it is very difficult to be of the Socialist Party in Galicia, because being of the Socialist Party in Galicia today is to say that 6 is more than 10 when it comes to general government budgets. It's very difficult to be of the Socialist Party in Galicia. Look, what's obvious is that we're in the situation that we're in the inaction of the Socialist Government, which is becoming a real problem for the electrointensive industry in Galicia. And here we can come looking for solutions or making excuses for bad payers. That is the situation in which you are, the Socialist Party of Galicia, and your necessary accomplices or useful fools — as you sometimes say — who support them and support them; some because they co-operate with you in councils or deputies — who want to suppress — and others because they support them in the Congress of Deputies. That's the reality. Look, here you have to choose: either they're with the Greeks, with the workers of the electrointensive industry, or they're with Pedro Sánchez and that government that lives in plane mode, Falcon mode. When you talk, you prove where they are. This government, ladies and gentlemen, is a threat, it's a threat to industry. This government is a threat to the automobile. There's already problems in the automobile. This government is a threat to the naval sector — of entry, nine months' delay to the F110 frigates attributable to this government —.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u361	Finish, please. On the amendments, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u362	This government is a threat to thermal power stations. They've already been able to close Meirama and they want to close The Bridges too. And this government is a real problem for the electrointensive industry. It doesn't contain with us for favor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u363	About the amendments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u364	Our proposal is in agreement with the sector, with the electro-intensive industries, it represents their interests and therefore we do not agree with the amendments tabled. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u365	Thank you very much. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u366	After the debate on the non-legislative proposals, we proceed to the vote. If they don't object, we only vote with the statement so that I won't read the whole text. We then begin by voting on Amendment No 1, which is from the Galego Nationalist Bloc Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Prado Cores, who does accept the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and does not accept the amendment of the Popular Parliamentary Group. Voting of the compromised text of the non-legislative G.P proposal of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the allocation by the Government of the Greek human and material resources required of the Emergency Service of the University Hospital Complex of Santiago de Compostela. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u367	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Pazos Couñago. I was looking forward to a transaction with the Galician Nationalist Block. The other amendment was not accepted. [[Pause.]] Is there a transaction? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Give your voice to the scene.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u368	In fact, En Marea's has not been accepted and we offer BNG to incorporate its amendment of addition. I don't know if you agree.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u369	They don't accept. We voted for her, then, as she is. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Paula Prado del Río and eight other Members, on the performances to be carried out by the Galician Union in order to facilitate the clarification of the accident that took place at the La Marisquiño festival in the city of Vigo. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 14; abstentions, 20. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u370	We are now voting on number 3, which is the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Mr Sánchez. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago asks for the floor.]] Give a voice to Mr. Paz Couñago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u371	We would like to request a separate vote on points 4 and 5 of the proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u372	Do you accept it, Mr. Sánchez? [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] You can look at him. [[Murmurs.]] You don't accept. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. in Marea, at the initiative of Mr David Rodríguez Estévez and two other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in connection with the request to approve the timely modification of urban planning in the parish of Tameiga, in the municipality of Mos, for the execution of a sporting and commercial project. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u373	Can we vote for them together? Do you have any drawbacks? No drawback? There must be unanimity in this. [[Pause.]] Do we agree? In particular, motion No. 4 and No. 6 would be voted on together. The amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group is not accepted either. [[Pause.]] If you do not agree, you must vote first for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. We voted first, that of En Marea, because it was registered. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Flora Maria Miranda Pena and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to dignify primary health care and its professionals. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u374	We are voting now, in order, that of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Ms. Ana Pontón, who said that he did not accept the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and that he did accept the amendment of the En Marea Parliamentary Group. And he asked for a point vote. Have you applied for a point vote, Mrs. Pontón? That's three points. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] And as an addition, that of En Marea. Perfect. Well, let's vote the three points... [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] It's four. Then we vote the addendum first and then we vote the other points. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's vote, then, first point number one. Let's start at the beginning, first point number one. [[Pause.]] We must repeat the vote, because Mrs Pontón has accepted the amendment of En Marea, she accepts the amendment of En Marea as an addition. So that generates another point and asks them to vote separately on her three points, on her proposal. Well, the four of us, but the proposal has three points. [[Murmurs.]] So now you were voting point 1 of the Block Amendment. I'm sorry, about the proposal, about the proposal, that I'm already in touch. [[Murmurs.]] We voted for point 1 of the proposal of the Nationalist Bloc. Vote for point 1 of the proposed non-law G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members, on the measures necessary to safeguard the Galego Centre in Buenos Aires. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 39; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. Point 1 of this non-law proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u375	Let's vote point 2. Vote of point 2 of the proposed non-law G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members, on the measures necessary to safeguard the Galego Centre in Buenos Aires. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. Point 2 of the transactional text of this non-law proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u376	Let us now vote on the third point. [[Pause.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There was a mistake. Looks like there was a communication error. Let us repeat the vote on point 3. We vote. There was a mistake, that happens to anyone. Vote of point 3 of the proposed non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members, on the measures necessary to safeguard the Galego Centre in Buenos Aires. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. Point 3 of the transactional text of this non-law proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u377	And now we are voting on a fourth point, which includes the amendment of the En Marea Parliamentary Group. Vote of point 4 of the proposed non-law G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members, on the measures necessary to safeguard the Galego Centre in Buenos Aires. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. Point 4 of the transactional text of this non-law proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u378	We are now voting on the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Julio Torrado, who does not accept the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Julio Torrado Quintela and Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the design and implementation by the Galician Union of an extraordinary human resources plan for primary care 2019-2020 in the public Greek health system. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u379	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Ms Patricia Otero, who accepts the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, as an amendment to the first point, as an amendment to addendum, and does not accept the others, either that of the People's Party or that of the second point. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Patricia Otero Rodríguez and four other Members, on the impetus for the Galician Union of Initiatives to help resume the negotiation of the Fifth Framework Collective Convention of the Endesa Group The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u380	Finally, we voted for the People's Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Tellado Figueira, who did not accept the amendments. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and ten other Members, on the support of the Galician Parliament to the Galician Union in its request to the Government of Spain for an immediate response to the proposal to establish a stable electrical framework and a competitive electric price for electrointensive companies. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 53; abstentions, 20. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u381	And now we have to resume the session. And now comes the usual one. With this schedule, what time do we come back? It's three and a half past. At four and a half? Five minus a room? [[Pause.]] At five o'clock.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u382	Let's resume the session with the question mark. Da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and two other members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Government of Galicia in relation to the compliance of Law 4/2017, of 3 October, of the protection and welfare of pets
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u383	Mrs Vilán has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u384	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, little by little we're here today. Good afternoon, counselor, and welcome to the secretariat of the Association of Veterinary Entrepreneurs of Galicia. And it's not about Galician animals, it's about Galician pets. An animal is an organic being, who lives, feels and moves by itself; and a pet, which is from which Law 4/2017 goes, is an animal that belongs to a species that is accustomed to living with people, with human beings. And I don't know if you remember an ad of a game called scattergories, which said, "Go crazy as a pet animal." It was worth the dust as a pet. Well, if it's worth the dust, it also has to be worth the fox as a pet. The fox is not protected as a specific species of cinematic. The Hunting Law allows for its beatings, but there is no official data on the density of foxes, how many there are, nor on the need to control its population. And the fox, according to the Galician Natural History Society — which we believe is an entity with enough prestige to take account of in the world of the environment, and especially in relation to the world of natural balance — has an important health role and has an important ecological balance in our community. The Hunting Law speaks precisely of making the hunt compatible with the natural balance. For we believe that perhaps you should do a study on the need for fox beats — to be compatible with the natural balance — and not to promote the beatings, which are being reproduced throughout the country. But today we're not going to talk about the Hunting Law, we're going to talk about Law 4/2017, which came into force on the 11th of this month, this month of last year, January 11th of 2018. It's an important date, we must have that day, so I'll tell you later, because you're the ones who are breaking your own law. There are difficulties in compliance, there is repeated failure in time, and also uncontrolled by the Government. And besides — and the date of January 11, 2018 — there is no regulation for the development of the Act on the Protection and Welfare of Pets in Galicia. I am going to read your first final provision, which says that the Board of Trustees was empowered, from Parliament, to dictate the necessary development provisions within a maximum of twelve months since its entry into force. And the twelve months passed on the 11th. We're still waiting for the regulation. And this isn't a matter that doesn't matter, because that raises a lot of problems for many collectives; also for veterinary entrepreneurs, for example. First, I'm going to tell you about the difficulties of your compliance, and I'm going to focus precisely on veterinary business, careers and animal breeders. People who are engaged in the development of veterinary business have problems, many difficulties, in meeting various issues. Pets — all animals, but especially pet animals — require proper veterinary care because they live with people, live in their homes. How many more visits to the veterinarian will be in the homes; and, in fact, how many fewer visits to the health of people. And I want to put a spike in Flanders, or to make reference to something that from these benches on some committee you called "the budgets of the raid." Because in the general government budget project there is a download, a download proposal, from the veterinary VE 21% to 10%. With the former president, President Mariano Rajoy, who was his friend government, maintained the IVE at 21%. And that affects people dedicated to the veterinary company, but it also affects people who have pets, of course, and who take them to the veterinarian. You guys kept the IV at 21% and now there's a 10% proposal. And you're the one where they're going to say they're lowering taxes. Andalucia has just done it with the succession tax, which is eliminated. Well, if that's the case, it would be fine and it would be a good reason for you to vote in favour of the general government budgets, because that's a tax drop. And few people have pets in their homes. [[Applause]] The people who work for the veterinary company have veterinary centers that are zoological cores, and the law obliges them to certain requirements as they develop legally. It specifically refers to a regulation that, as I have just said, does not yet exist. Then they have to get their imagination to work and do what they can with the possibility that at some point there is some kind of sanction on the part of the Government. They're a health profession, and the health criteria aren't in the law of 2017. The law itself does not oblige veterinarians to exist in the yards, in the shelters; we do not know if the regulation will develop that option. They send out recipes sometimes, because there are drugs that have to be prescribed, and it's not specified in the law either. In addition, one of the most problematic issues is article 15 of the law, which refers to euthanasia: " Animal euthanasia will be prescribed and carried out by a veterinary professional." That's what the law says. But, of course, it goes back to a regulation, which determines the methods authorized to practice that euthanasia, and there is no regulation — at least at the moment — violating the law, because the law established a maximum period of twelve months, and I remember it ended on 11 January. Of course, they've been doing euthanasia for more than a year, for necessity or for obligation, without having a standard to cover them, as far as authorized methods are concerned, by the Government of Galicia and its council. Then there are the animal diseases that are transmitted to people, and those that are alerting us to the International Bureau of Epizootics — anger and leptospirosis specifically. There are cases in Galicia, like the recent one of an autochthonous bat who works for a woman in Lugo. And you look somewhere else. Veterinarians warn of the possibility of anger and you look elsewhere and do nothing. And they have difficulty fulfilling the barrels too, and I'm going to explain why. It's the municipalities that have the obligation to protect pets that are abandoned and have canisters or have places to carry cats. Because the law says so in article 22. You, last year — I have the answer here — in eight months they gave a grant of EUR 100,000 — for the months from January to August 2018, eight months. Fegamp says that every municipality in Galicia that will need, the annual cost, will be between 50,000 and 200,000 euros, and we have 313 municipalities in Galicia. This amount you gave for two at a time. Fegamp proposes that the deputies and the municipalities take care of the management of the canteens, and that you take care of the investments. Because the municipalities — and you know it well because you were mayor of a relatively small municipality — do not have enough means to comply with this law. Compliance is practically impossible. And there are difficulties for animal breeders, because Article 14 of the law also speaks, referring to the regulation, to the procedure for authorizing, for example, canine exposures, and also to the requirements of animals coming to such exhibitions. There is no regulation and therefore administrative arbitrariness is open — for the effect of imposing sanctions, of course. Besides, you broke your own law of 2017. And why do I say so? I don't know if the people we're here remember that on the Road, in August, five dogs attacked an 85-year-old woman who almost killed her. He entered the emergency room and was operated urgently. These dogs were owned by a neighbor in the area, which has a farm of about 5,000 square meters, and were camping on the farm but also out of the farm freely. You had complaints from Seprona communicated to the Council and communicated to the Road Council — the two are governed by the People's Party — and they haven't done anything since 2016 — because these dogs had already attacked other animals. The law imposes obligations on the municipalities but also establishes an obligation on the Council itself, which has an obligation to inspect, monitor and monitor compliance with the law. If they don't do it, they won't be able to control it. He had to intervene in court so that you would move, unfortunately, this lady was attacked by the dogs, because both the Town Hall and you knew it, because Seprona had sent the reports. We don't know where they ended up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u385	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u386	I'm gonna finish it, president. That's right. The Mayor of the Road was able to go there and take a picture at the time of the dog's comitus, after months waiting for you to move your tokens. Counselor, you violate your own law, and there is no regulation. We have just recorded some initiatives to demand precisely that the regulation be brought out at once, but in a participatory and open way to citizens, because it is essential. The question is basically about whether you're fulfilling it or not. We don't think so, and these are the reasons. And we're waiting for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u387	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Before he responds to the counselor, we greet the students and students of the 4th ESO of the IES Ramón María Aller Ulloa, of Lalin, as well as their teachers and the guests who accompany us today in the gallery. Now yes, you have the floor of the Environmental, Territorial and Living Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u388	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone, and in a special way to these young and young, I'm sure they're more than aware of the welfare of animals and pets. If we ask them to lift their fingers if they have any dog or cat at home, I'm sure they have not only one but several. And we could teach us lessons, Mrs. Vilan, about how we have to protect our animals. And sometimes they could also give us lessons on how we should behave in Parliament. I'm saying that, because at first you were making an introduction and I was looking to see if I was wrong in the inquiry that comes here today, or in the question that you were asking me. And I realized that I didn't, I realized that there's an entrepreneur in the sector, and I therefore find it very commendable that you are addressing and therefore say that you are worried about this sector. But actually who took away the Act of pet welfare because it was the Government of the People's Party. [[Applause]] It is true that they had the opportunity to contribute and, therefore, to make it enriching, as best as possible, to reach every corner. But it's also quite true that, when they're given the chance, little they do. Well, it's commendable that they also ask for and they're trying to develop the regulation. And I had an interpellation, a question, and that question is the same, Mrs. Vilán — and therefore I also thank you for being different — to an exact three months ago formulated, which was answered by the Environment Council and which was at Commission 2nd — specifically through the Director-General of Natural Heritage. It's the same, clicked, though Mrs. Vilan takes it and says no. But if you want, then we'll show you to see if it's like that or not. I understand that it has been explained above in the case of the Road, that in the end if you want to connect a council with the Government of the Union. And I think it's all right, but from time to time, I also talk to the municipalities that you govern. Because in the end the problems end up being the same, and the actions of the mayors end up being the same. Even so, I tell you, on the part of the Environment Council, on the part of the Galician Council, if you are applying the Act of Protection and Welfare of Pets, a text prompted by this Government in the current legislation, which, as you said, was done on January 11th a year. That's why I would like to start by making it clear — as it cannot be otherwise — that the Greek Government is strictly applying the law since its entry into force; a law that, as you know, updates a regulation with more than twenty years of vigency and which was born due to the need to provide Galicia with a more demanding law from the health point of view, on the one hand, and from the environmental and welfare point of view, respecting animals. But that also brings obligations to the owners and their caregivers. It responds to a majority feeling of Greek society, which also seeks to respond to the demands of citizenship in the face of the problem of abandonment and animal abuse. It equips the Italian legislation to other European communities and states, and has a triple objective: not to sacrifice, the fight against animal abuse and not to abandon animals. In short, it is a law of the state's most advanced ones, which fosters, in addition, the adoption of animals and the awareness of society as a whole; and it also hardens the penalties provided for by a responsible tendance of pets. Pets aren't pets that you can have today, and tomorrow they're no longer interested, as if they were a toy, and therefore they end up abandoned. No doubt, the main instrument to prevent abandonment and animal abuse ends up with this law. And just like we can't have a pet and leave it, what we can't have is a lot of animals out of control on a farm and that there's finally a security problem. But there may be people like that, and therefore there is the law to protect us all. The goal? Avoiding cases like what happened last summer on the Road — which you refer to at the end — that put health at risk and, indeed, almost the lives of people, and that at the same time affect the welfare of animals themselves. With regard to this particular case, Mrs Vilán, I inform you that the Environmental, Territorial and Living Council in August 2018 received several writings in which there were incidents; in which an uncontrolled group of dogs effectively attacked a neighbour of this municipality. And as prescribed by the regulations, once the communications were received, all the checks that were deemed necessary to act accordingly were made from the Board. That's why it opened through the Pontevedra Territorial Staff a sanctioning file to the dog owner. It was during the investigation of this file, and in the face of the gravity of this reported situation, when a precautionary measure was decided to be carried out by these animals. Something that, as you know, is a measure that is provided for in the Act on the Protection and Welfare of Pets, which aims primarily at ensuring public health and also animal welfare. In this way — and with dates of October 26 and 29, 2018, and with the essential collaboration of Seprona and the Local Highway Police — a total of eight animals were captured within the property of the complainant. In particular, four dogs were committed in one of these days; the first ones through the application of the order of commission and the last four voluntarily delivered by the owner. As we suspected that there were enough clues that there could be more dogs, and in the face of the landlord's refusal to deliver them on a voluntary basis, we, Mrs. Vilán — because it seemed that the trial was there and that then he told us that we had to do so; no, it was the Counsellor who asked the Judge of the Continuity of Pontevedra—the presceptive authorization to enter home. Next, the judge gave us this authorization and we were able to access the property -- if not, we couldn't do it -- on December 18, 2018. Would you like me to go before that? I'm sure it will, but in the end the times I'm saying. The clarity is total and absolute. And you can't enter the property of anyone if the owner doesn't authorize, and therefore you have to have a court order. On that day, and after the inspection carried out, the owner delivered two other dogs, one of which was neither identified nor had microchip. And, to have all the information — because as it seems we want to hide something... and for nothing! — I want to give it a little pass, and to make the Council's performance totally clear. In total, ten animals were collected, which were moved to an installation with which the Road Town Hall has signed agreements, such as the rest of the municipalities, regardless of the color they are, to collect abandoned animals and keep them in appropriate conditions. Thanks to all the performances carried out, it was found that 11 dogs registered on the name of this complainant were in the Galego Registry of Identification of Pets, and one missing. And among them was a potentially dangerous dog who was not registered as such; an infringement which, of course, is qualified as grave in the current law. The dogs, indeed, walked freely and without control. Animal and installation conditions were not appropriate. There was no authorization to establish the name of the accused person. There was no communication that he had more than five dogs inside his property. And, therefore, what is done is infringing on this complaint, with the corresponding sanctions being carried out now, with the processing and resolution that will finally be imposed on it. So this law is effective? I'd say, yes, it's effective. And, thanks to the law, we took all the steps necessary to undertake, to enter, that the animals might be well gathered; and, at the end, that this lord, who had nothing in order, would pay for what he did. Well, it's true that the person has been at grave risk, and it's true that we have to realize that this kind of thing doesn't happen. So this is a clear example of the practices that must be stopped by the Act on the Protection and Welfare of Pets, which, I tell you, has been successfully applied for a year — and so the data are being evaluated — a period in which it is being shown that in 12 months, the registration of pet animals — 17% — has been significantly increased. In fact, in a single year — that is, in 2018 —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u389	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u390	...there were 84,859 tall news in the register. And that means there's awareness and the Council can therefore take greater control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u391	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Vilan's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u392	Counselor, the first question of the inquiry was about the enforcement of the law. And the truth is, it's pretty sad that you, perhaps, haven't read it whole. Because he doesn't just talk about dogs, and specifically about dogs like those on the Road. It's also about vets, it's also about sugarcane, it's also about dog clubs. And, therefore, you see that you are not able to answer any of the other things that I just asked you. Well sad is it, because the law doesn't have a single article about dogs, it has a lot more things. [[Applause]] And I suppose the representative of the veterinary businessmen here will take a surprise and an answer that you will not be able to share with your colleagues and companions, because you have said absolutely nothing of what I asked you. You literally said, "they removed the Act of Welfare and Protection of Pets." In any case, this Parliament has left it, because the legislative procedure is done here, it is not done in the Government. You would have to remove the regulation, they were twelve months old, and they haven't done it yet. That's his duty and he didn't! [[Applause]] Just for not doing it, those people who are up there have problems every day to apply the law of 2017. [[Applause]] And that's your responsibility. How the law has come out of good or bad from here is the responsibility of all of us here — mostly of the Government, because it has made the decision to include or not the amendments of the other parliamentary groups that we are here and we do not support the Government. But the regulation is your only and sole responsibility and you haven't done it; therefore, it is you who will have to answer about this breach. And I'm going to talk about four things that happened on the Road -- and I actually asked him. Since 2016 the neighbors knew what was on that farm. And that's how they called Seprona. Seprona went there, sent him a report, sent him to the Town Hall and sent him to the Environmental Council. We're in 2019. What happened to those reports? Where are they? I also asked the Headmistress General and I couldn't answer. He didn't answer me. Neither do you. We don't know where those reports are. And if you receive in your office a report saying that there's a gentleman who has a farm of 5,000 square meters, about, with "x" dogs in there who leave under the orchard that has the farm—for they go out, dig, he himself said—that they go out and camp happily, that they ate and worked other animals that were outside, and you didn't do anything, because you see they don't do too much what the law says. It is more, if the law were so effective — you said it was totally effective — because it would not have happened on the Road in August. Let them tell the lady that she almost dies and her family whether it's effective or not — which I think she shouldn't be too happy —. You blame the judge. "In August, at the time they received the communications in August..." "No, no, they've already received them in 2016 and they haven't done anything since Seprana, which is not anybody, it's not a particular one. But now it's the fault of the trial, because you in August put in place the interim measures that allow the law itself, but the trial brought out the obligation to commit in December. They could have done it since 2016, because they already knew. And Seprona says he sent the reports. Where are they? What did they do with them? Those reports were sufficient clues. We believe, Counsellor, that it is very good to make laws — this legislation unfortunately you cannot presume to do too much, in fact this is one of the few aside from the laws of budgets. But the laws are to solve the citizens' problems. Sometimes these problems, as the law is a very generic thing, need a regulation that specifies certain issues. In fact, this law goes back to that regulation. Each one has its own obligations, and each one has its own responsibilities, Counselor. The laws are very good on paper, but then they have to be applied. And there are collectives — like the one in the person who is up there, who are here to represent him — to ask them to implement — and please remove the regulation already — what is the obligation of each of these collectives. Because the law has to comply with it all: the owners of pets, veterinarians, canoes and also people who are engaged in raising pets, for example, or canine exhibitions — which they cannot do in Galicia because their council and the Rural Council do not leave them because there is no regulation specifying the criteria for such canine exhibitions. So you do your job and don't come here to teach what everyone's work is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u393	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Close this inquiry by the Environmental, Territorial and Living Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u394	Thank you, President. Mrs. Vilan, when there's reports, they're involved. That's what you do with them. From then on, if you want, say: and what was the result? The one protected by the law at that time. But believe me that no report is left in a drawer by the Environmental Council. [[Applause]] That's on the one hand. On the other hand, try to put his words in his mouth. But please don't twist mine and don't say I blame the judge. I talked about procedure and I said, "We'd like it sooner." But it's the periple we have to go on without more and therefore I don't blame the judge. The only culprit is a gentleman who had bad dogs and in addition to a farm, who shouldn't have them. That's the only one to blame, it's not the judge or the Environmental Council, nor does the savior end up being you. No, there's a guilty man and the law pursues him. And that's what we're doing. On the other hand, the Pet Protection and Welfare Act was the result of dialogue with the agents involved. And indeed, the processing is of Parliament and the one who pushed it was the Government. There's an impulse on the part of the government and you were able to work. And I think they could probably work more. It has been the result of a consensus and I believe that the sector will again be called upon to continue to consent and therefore the regulation will leave this year. Don't worry, because it'll be like that. So we seek consensus, we seek not the time to turn people to the end and let the work of a lot of people, which is not only a counselor but a lot of people involved. So we made an advanced law, we made a law that gives us security, and now we have to develop a regulation, and believe me that it will also be the hands of the sector. And it's also thought this law to respond forcefully, which is what we were missing. Because many times we were in a limbo and we were not able to act as we would like, which was the case before the law came into force and those reports, which, of course, were dealt with through Seprona, the Environmental Council and which followed their course to the end. We therefore took all the necessary measures in the case of the Road at the time we had a record. We have even resorted to justice in order to enter the property of this lord, and we have opened a sanctioning file; and therefore it is mandatory on the part of the Administration to do so but what cannot be said is that it is not being complied with. From there, I have to make a positive balance of these twelve months of law, which has served us, on the one hand, to significantly increase the number of registrations of animals in the register — this increase exceeds 17% — and on the other hand, it allowed the authorization of three new centres for the collection of abandoned animals, two public and one private, which means 11% more than in 2017. We now have 31 centers distributed in the four provinces; specifically, 12 in Coruña, 9 in Pontevedra, 7 in Ourense and 3 in Lugo. The sanctioning files relating to offences covered by the new law were doubled, specifically Mrs Vilán, from 88 sanctions registered in 2017 to 182 in the first year of application of this law. Of these sanctions, in addition, we can say that 109 were of a light nature — mainly those relating to the obligation to keep animals in good condition and to subject them to veterinary checks, and also to the presence of wild animals on the public track — 72 were serious — mostly, a total of 51, concerning the non-identification of animals through microchip, this being one of the new features of the law, which is hardened in addition to this aspect; and one was very serious. This was the result of sanctions and controls in 12 months since the entry into force of this new law. There was a compromise, and that commitment was that there was dialogue, there was consensus. It was an open law. And now, throughout this year, the regulation will be taken out of 2019, and also with everyone's consensus, and in addition, by hearing your hand to make the necessary contributions. So we're not going to stop, we're going to keep working — we're doing it. And, in conclusion, I want to say to you that I think it was a correct impulse of this law by the Government and also that it was a correct fact that society had contributed to its development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u395	Thank you, Counselor. Da Eva Solla Fernández's interview with G.P. of En Marea, on the policy of the Government of Greece to avoid saturation situations in emergency services in the hospitals of Sergas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u396	Mrs. Solla has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u397	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Mr. Almuinha. We have seen, once again, move here the discomfort and anxiety of hundreds of thousands of people in Galicia who throughout all these weeks are leaving the streets to support their professionals, their professionals, those and those on strike—as we have said in the morning—defending their rights, defending the rights of all Galician citizens to have decent health and quality health, what you do not do when you feel without any kind of negotiating offer, what they do when they do not hear for months, for years, the warnings of professionals, which ultimately results in having to be tried to call strikes, as in the Emergency Service of Santiago de Compostela University Hospital Complex or in the continued attention points of this country. In the morning we heard Mr Feijóo — I suppose you too — move a series of arguments containing falsehoods, obviously falsehoods. The reality is that we have a budget that has been reduced by 8% in real terms since 2009, and this has entailed a massive cut in public health professionals, a cut that affects, on the one hand, the quality of care and, on the other hand, the situation of employees and public employees themselves. That situation is reaching a point of no return, Mr. Almuña. We're getting to such a worrying point that it's possible that the governments that are coming might have a lot of difficulty to repair in a reasonable period of time the destruction you caused in only ten years, in only ten years! This situation leads to the fact that today we can define widely and clearly that the state of our public health is a health crisis. Galicia suffers from a health crisis and we're going to have to start calling things by their name. This situation, Mr. Almuña, leads to that every year, every year!, saturations, collapses of emergency services, over services that are already saturated the rest of the year. And you don't move one finger even though you've clearly defined when the flu wave and the rest of the respiratory disease is going to happen. And despite that, we have no previous forecast. I asked him in writing also for those contingency plans, but the answer was absolutely empty, without any kind of content that would lead you to understand that you plan staff needs in services. And I'm going to practically refer to an intervention I've had here over a year ago by dealing with this very subject, where we made a balance of why emergency services are collapsing. Look, emergency services are often collapsing because there's a problem throughout the public health service: when people have to wait for their doctor or head doctor for a consultation, sometimes they end up having to go to an ongoing point of care or hospital emergency service—of course collapse the service because they care for all kinds of patients with all kinds of diseases and different types of severity—; when there's little staff in hospital units at hospitals, what happens, Mr. Almuínña, is that no income is raised, the people who are bedridden; when they don't open their beds closed by the will of their government, what happens is that there aren't those people who are bedridden. And those beds don't open up because they don't get professional, because they don't provide staff with these hospital units. And where does it concentrate all the number of patients either waiting for their hospitalization or being cared for because they support primary and hospital waiting lists? Because obviously something will have to see those waiting lists that you don't publish. I don't want to hear you talk about this week, because they're not the real ones. I have been waiting for six years for a request for information in the course of Article 9 — which is mandatory for you to answer to me, who am a Member of this House, why you can give or why you cannot give at least the information. We've been asking him for non-structural waiting lists for six years, but I could add to them the ones I asked for in the previous legislation. These are the actual waiting lists, and when the query lists are increased, when the resonance lists are increased, when the lists of any evidence leading to diagnosis are increased, and then when people are treated with a health problem, people often get worse and end up in the emergency services. And that's the problem we have, ten-year-old cut-off fruit, Mr. Almuña. In ten years you've destroyed public health, we have a health crisis of an unusual size. Professionals don't come out of the street casually all these days, no, no, no. They go out and accumulate these protests because they're also retiring professionals and you have only one proposal: to extend the retirement age. I told him once: that's not something that solves in the medium term, not even in the short term. How many years will professionals be forced to do more work? What kind of planning is that? That's a desperate measure of fruit that you haven't done your homework for the last ten years. The bad student has to, at the last hour, do whatever sort of thing he can to approve. You didn't do your homework, your precedent didn't do your homework, and now we're in a situation of absolute foresight where there are no professionals. And it's no coincidence that parents and mothers go out asking for pediatricians, of course not. And it's not just a problem with the training of doctors — that too. We asked you here to form more residents and you voted against it. They remember now because they no longer rule in the central government. That's your proposal for the management and administration of public health: to blame someone when they can; and, when they can't, it can't be done. That's the reality, Mr. Padre. And so today we had to bring this back here, because, despite the fact that we warned before Christmas that this was going to happen, they didn't do anything. And we have the hospital complex strike in Compostela, the state of the CHUS emergencies, where you are now beginning to yield — still insufficient the offer they make — when they denied before they needed themselves. They said there was, that it was not possible, and suddenly they appear, suddenly appear, Mr. Almuinho. And what's going on in Coruña? What's going on in Vigo? Why, as I explained in Commission 5 last week, can there be an emergency service that supports 49 people in corridors, 49 human beings in corridors waiting for a hospital bed, with closed beds, Mr. Almuña? They've been holding until the last hour to unlock the rooms of the Cunqueriro and to open the beds that you voluntarily close in the Mexeiroiro. Why? Why?Oh, my God! Why do parents, why do mothers, why do the daughters of the people who live in Vigo, in this case, but of all Galicia, have to wait in a hall if there are beds available? Why?Oh, my God! And that's why we ask him every year for that contingency plan and explain it to us. Today we ask again, because the reality is that it's totally unthinkable that the units are closed when there's a need for them. It's insumable, Mr. Almuña. And I said in the commission that I don't agree with keeping them closed -- you know -- for the rest of the year. But you defend that they are available and that they can be opened. All right, I don't agree, that's your proposal. What's the matter? That, when there are 49 human beings in a corridor, they don't open either. How long do you have to be in order to be acceptable? And, look, by trying to demobilize, you guys this week were getting a news story saying, "The Sergas sets no patient to spend more than 24 hours in the emergency room." Yes, of course, by decree, which is how you do things. Because they say it and announce it in a media, nothing happens at all, Mr. Almuño, you know it just as I do. But of course, of course, how there are protests and mobilizations, because there is something to be said to try to demobilize. And that sounds pretty good to me at another news in 2017, when they said they'd set a four-hour tip for patients to be cared for. Five hours, six hours, Mr. Almuña, seven hours in some cases... and then we have cases like those that were reported in the prosecutor's office. And it's tremendous — I said in the morning, that you weren't, it was in the debate of a non-law proposition that, when a professional comes out denouncing the serious situation and the deaths in an emergency service to defend public health, so you put more means, because what's in danger is the life of innocent people who don't have the blame for their management, you attack that professional, you mark that professional, you try to confront the professionals. Can you confront her with the nurses who choose Manchester? Your statements, Mr. Almuño, were quite regrettable. I have to tell you. It was quite regrettable to try to confront the professionals. Luckily you didn't get it, you didn't, because fortunately you're fighting for the different professional categories. I know you shouldn't like that too much. But that's the reality. And when professionals report that people die, they don't do it out of taste. It's very bad, it's very bad, having these working conditions. Because people have conscience, they're professionals who work because they want, they love their profession. And they have to be able to work in absolutely outraged conditions because you don't do homework for ten years. So -- and I'm going to finish it now -- you have questions in writing here today, questions in writing. We would like it to be answered, because it is quite important that you clarify here why these demands were not heard, that you clarify how these contingency plans are activated, how they work, and, of course, if you consider that, as we are, is the right way to care for the health of the Galicians and the Greeks. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u398	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Replica from the Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u399	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, very late. If you want, I'll answer the first question, about the lack of good planning in Sergas in the face of the possible increase in the demand for assistance. There's obviously good planning. The health system responds to people's health problems in an integral and coordinated way, as is the case with influenza, where the actions range from prevention to care when pathology is produced. Prevention campaigns start every year in the fall with vaccination, the most effective measure against influenza, and extend for ten weeks to the end of December, with 900 points available for vaccination. This year we also introduced important news to strengthen this campaign, such as the use of tetravalent vaccine in vulnerable groups and the start of the campaign a week earlier for professionals. In addition, when the epidemic phase starts later, we prolong the vaccination during the month of January, until last week. So first, prevention, and I know that people in your group do not find vaccination interesting as a method, as I say, preventive. Together with vaccination, we carry out an intense campaign of information both internal and external about the transmission of influenza, about how to avoid it, and also with advice on how to act when symptoms and to suffer them. The objective, as is evident, is to minimize the transmission, comorbidity and associated mortality, and to seek the best use of health resources, making it easier to care for people who need it most. The role and involvement of primary care is very important, both in health centre consultations — I remember that it is 26 million consultations per year — and in the ongoing attention points. In those devices, in 2018, 1,546,000 people were cared for. This is an average daily emergency care rate of 4.237, with a resolution rate of 90.61%. In other words, only 9.39% of the total emergencies seen in the CAP are derived from the hospital. Also in the care structure comes 061, fundamental for a double role: first, because it is a service that informs and shapes citizens who call their number, and then because it directs the proper use of health resources. This year 2019, for this campaign, the focal point strengthened with nurses during the months of the highest incidence of influenza, adapted the demand classification system received at the central for flu-related symptoms, thus agitating both the average time of consultation and its final resolution. In this way, it is guaranteed that, despite the increase in the number of calls received — usually during these months, which exceeded the 4,000 daily calls in the past campaign and, as I say, that we are increasing — if we can meet all of that demand. In addition, since 061, media campaigns have also been carried out with basic recommendations on how to deal with influenza. However, when activity reputes occur, contingency plans are implemented, involving actions in all health care resources. I think you don't know the contingency plans, as you tell us, but here we have, for example, the one in the area of Santiago. And I say "area" because they're area, which affects primary care and also hospital care. We must point out that professionals responsible for their work are involved in their implementation and are signed by them — primary care services, emergencies, preventive medicine, pediatrics, internal medicine, nursing, process management, microbiology, pneumology and admission. In them, the actions to be carried out in order to control the consequences of the spread of the infection wave, prioritising the attention of these patients in primary care, avoiding outbreaks within health centres, planning possible peaks of demand in different care devices, providing as much assistance as possible to patients with influenza as possible by trying to minimize the impact on the functioning of health centres and describing alternative procedures to the usual organisational order in order to allow maximum normal functioning. They contain the need for the empowerment of specific spaces and the empowerment of resources, both structural and personal, beds and the reinforcement of professionals, as assistance needs are growing during the winter season. It must be borne in mind, moreover, that hospital emergency services also assist patients with other non-respiratory pathologies, so, although the demand for flu waves is planned, entries in emergency services are always subject to unforeseen changes and circumstances, which, added to the discontinuity characteristic of urgent demand, can lead to moments at the point of demand. However, in order to carry out the correct follow-up and minimize the health impact of the epidemic, from the General Directorate of Health Care there is continuous follow-up of emergency services in each hospital, as well as of the incidences that have occurred, to properly assess the impact of influenza on health care provided to the citizen and to implement, if necessary, additional measures to those initially established. In addition, the centers have emergency drainage plans, with both organizational and human resource reinforcement actions, which allow the quickening of the resources of laboratory diagnostic tests as well as admission to hospitalisation and home hospitalization plants, making the operation of the different hospital services more flexible to adapt to the income needs of patients from emergencies. All this within the coordination and permanent dialogue of the management of the centers with the services involved in patient care. It must be pointed out that urgent patient care leads to the need to have devices that allow patients to be selected according to the severity of the diseases they present, the key process of adapting attention to urgent demand, which is the choice — particularly Manchester's international use triage — a process that classifys patients according to the severity and need for assistance according to a color code; and which marks a standard time of attendance until the first medical contact — different according to this color code. We have 0.4% of red emergencies, and we look at them immediately; 9.4% of the emergencies are oranges, which we care about twenty-one minutes; we have 48.1% of the yellow emergencies, and we look at them in fifty-one minutes; and we have 41.3% of the green emergencies, those that are not considered emergencies as such, that we take care of them in fifty-four minutes. The emergency services of the public hospitals in Galicia have well-trained, highly qualified professionals, as well as adequate infrastructure and equipment. And they work with protocols and information systems that allow the development of their activity to be at a level of quality. The development of these services in recent decades is an indisputable issue: structural reforms, staffing of personal plans of seasonal contingency, different processes and clinical pathways, alternative circuits... If we talk about the latest performances in large hospitals, for example, they were in the new emergencies of the CHUAC, at the Materno-Children Hospital, which is now in work to finish about May or June; at the Salnes Hospital, which tripled the space to care for patients; improvements in emergencies in Montecelo and the planning of the great Montecelo, which is underway; the short-stay area of the CHOU; the clearance of spaces at the Marine Hospital for triage. And at this moment we are, in particular, expanding and remodeling the emergency service of the Barbanza Hospital with an investment of about 2 million euros. And we're still working on adapting resources to the needs at every moment, in order to provide adequate assistance to our patients, and taking into account everything that in the future can improve excellent Welsh health care. On staff reinforcements in a period, for example, between 12 and 27 January, we are talking about reinforcements, both of health care personnel — optional and non-optional — as well as non-health care in hospital emergencies themselves, but also in hospitalization, reinforcing, as I say, in the most important moments of peak. These reinforcements vary slightly depending on the daily needs detected, readily solving any incidence that is present when the cited contingency plans are activated and therefore not improvising in the management measures to be taken. However, and as mentioned above, when there are increases in demand for assistance, an adaptation of the assistance model is always needed to resolve the situation as best as possible, with the need for the empowerment of both structural resources and second staff growing the assistance needs. So, Mrs. Solla, I deny the biggest. There is a plan to be able to act on situations like this time of year, with flu problems and other respiratory problems; and, of course, we will always, corally, work together, in a coordinated manner, with information, to adapt to the needs of our patients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u400	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Solla's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u401	Thank you, President. Read, read moderately well, Mr. Almuinho. You might be considering not reading the same answer you sent me several times in writing and answering the questions of the inquiry. [[Murmurs.]] I told him I had her there on the paper, but, well, if you want, I can read them, too, and I can read them, there's no problem. Look, to care about prevention, and to care for your primary care, you've got them pretty badly treated, Mr. Almuño. You're talking about vaccinations. They're fine, but in order to be able to prevent and promote health, Mr. Almuña, we need more professionals in primary care, we need you to meet the demands of the professionals of the continuing attention points. And that's exactly one of the issues that we raised in this inquiry: when they're going to meet the demands of professionals and professionals. Because, you see, with 50 daily consultations, you can't do prevention and health promotion, Mr. Almuña. The situation — I repeat — of our public health is of health emergency. We have a health crisis that results from their lack of planning. The central of the 061, for God's sake, you don't have enough staff, Mr. Almuña. We're going to talk after 061, about how the professionals of the 061 vote. Supplementary evidence, home hospitalization... she talked about a lot of things, a lot of services that are not reinforced and that I'm absolutely sure they don't come from those contingency plans. Of course, when they practice cuts that go up to 300 million euros, which go down to an 8% drop, Mr. Tomorrow, things like this happen: "Private health policies are disparated by waiting lists." That's what's happening, and that's the goal you have when public health deteriorates. Look, Mr. Almuña, you haven't answered, because I'd like to know what's the criterion of the Galician Council and how long it seems good for you to be cared for, what's those emergency service expectations, what's the time you have to attend to, what's the acceptable time you can stay in an emergency room. You used to talk these 24 hours, 24 hours without any more human means, to be able to care for those people. The reality is that people spend even, sometimes, 48 hours waiting for beds precisely because you don't cover hospital units with enough staff. You don't think it's a safety or health problem or rights for patients who stay in service corridors. That's the reality. And you don't listen to professionals. I'd also like you to answer the question of when you're going to improve those paintings of workers, but structurally, not on time when there's an outbreak of flu. That too, that will manage from the services. But do you know what usually happens when you ask for more professional companions and companions who are in the service? That they are told no, that they cannot be hired, that they are expected at the last hour. How can you justify here that 49 people in the corridors don't open their beds, don't open their rooms until the last hour? And that's why I want you to answer: how long can a person, a human being, on a stretcher in a corridor? See if you can answer me, because that didn't come in writing in your answer. And I'd like to know why they don't listen to these constant demands. Yesterday we said here that, after four or five years, you fell off your ass and they're going to put the 24-hour hemodynamics service in Lugo. And I wonder, how many people have to die without health care — even in Ourense, eh! — so that you decide to put a service? Because here we were treated almost as illiterates when we claimed that there was objective data from cardiology societies that indicated that it was obvious that, as soon as sick people were cared for, they were improving before and therefore they had the best survival rate. And they denied the biggest one. In fact, you always deny the biggest. And now they're saying they're going to save. I don't know how many lives. The same thing happens in the emergency room, Mr. Almuña. There are no more cases of deaths in the media because people don't move them. That's the reality. Professionals are wonderful, but they have two hands. They run, they do everything they can, but they're human beings. And that's why 20% of nurses and nurses are on their way down in the Hospital Complex of Compostela in emergencies; and 19% of nursing assistants. That's why, Mr. Padre! How long will they have to wait? Why don't you listen to these professionals? Answer the questions. I would like, and I'm very interested, to move as much as it seems acceptable to you for a human being to pass in a corridor, in an emergency service, without a bed, when there are beds closed in the Coruña, in Vigo and in Compostela. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u402	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Close the interrogation, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u403	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Obviously, speaking has no cancellations, Mrs. Solla. Your problem is he worked little in health. And almost as little as he worked, he forgot. Look, La Paz has been Spain's best center for fifty-four years, and the unions criticize the continuing saturation of emergencies. Malaga: "Doctors and nurses report emergency saturation in public hospitals." Madrid: "The unions report the collapse of emergencies before the flu epidemic". Leon: "The hospital enables 30 closed beds on the 12th floor after the collapse of emergencies." The Vanguard: "The flu and lack of personnel collapse the emergencies of Andalusia." "They ensure that emergency saturation" — iso di El Día, de Canarias — "repeats in more autonomous communities". The Gallego post: "Absolute normality in CHUS emergencies despite the alarms generated". "The Mexier opens all his beds for flu and emergencies are strengthened." [[Laughter]] Mrs. Solla, the catastrophe or the end of the world that vaccinates for Galicia seems, it seems, that happens somewhere else. It may be that all health advisors of other autonomies can read better than Galicia, but the reality is what it is. What we're going to have to be clear is that there's a planning and a choral response from the health system above all this. Of course, reality is always what it is. And we have to be planning and modifying — because health is this — the adaptation to the needs we have at every moment. If you talk about the movements of professionals on this day, because look at the CAP, for example, we are with a technical commission in the Council with trade union representatives and CAP workers. And we're reaching agreements. [[Murmurs.]] I don't know why she dances on the stage, Madam, I don't understand. You may not consider Parliament a serious place to be, but I think it's serious, very serious. And, of course, we're always in a position to negotiate and improve conditions, because we want to give our workers the best service. We are, as I say, at sectoral tables, and we have reached agreements already in the payment, for example, of double diet, in the elimination of the indicator of hospital derivation, uniformity, in guarantee and neutrality. And we keep working. Of course, in all the conflicts that may exist at work we always ask for responsibility because we are in a public service, and there are certainly many ways to reach agreements when we achieve balance between all of us. But we are managers of an budget that depends on citizens and therefore we have to use it properly. And I know that you think we should have units with all the available staff even if there are no patients. That is not what citizens ask us to do, citizens ask us for responsibility, and of course we use what we have to use properly. Also in Santiago's emergencies, he's negotiating, and I think there's a very important offer on the table to reach agreements. There may be people who don't want to have agreements, but I think most professionals and, of course, citizens want to agree, and as soon as possible. But of course, what can't be delayed is the votes twenty days, and for example, to go from before the ships to after the ships, if you really want to solve the conflict. We believe it is important that the conflict be resolved and we are certainly putting all the means in place. Finally, health problems are associated with all the resources of the health system. It is important to highlight the importance of individual measures and prevention, which in the case of influenza are the most effective. We must all protect ourselves, protect others and make proper use of resources. 061, health centres, continuing care points and, if necessary, hospital emergency services are prepared to care for all people with quality and safety. We transmit a message of tranquility to the citizenry, we respect and trust our professionals. If there's planning, and very rigorous and with a lot of accumulated experience. Of course, I believe that, as I say, we must be very sensitive to the very sensitive health problems; and of course very responsible for complaints that are unfounded, because we are indeed affecting the rigority of the health service. To finish, I wanted to read a communiqué that draws Semes-Galicia, not that it says: "We find it unacceptable to say that patients die in our services without being cared for, or because they are not cared for. It is also an allegation against our services and how to practice emergency and emergency medicine. Not everything is true in the media war, and we want to convey a message of calm to the population, to our patients." We fully agree with this statement by the Spanish Emergency Medicine Society in Galicia, and of course, as I say, all the Sergas health centers have contingency plans in the face of a possible increase in care demand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u404	Thank you, Counselor. We move on to item 7 of the agenda, questions to the Government. Question by Mr César Manuel Fernández Gil and seven other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the assessment made by the Government of Greece regarding the general budgets of the State for the year 2019 submitted by the Central Government
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u405	To put the question, Mr. Tellado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u406	Thank you, President. I believe the facts show that it was not accidental for the president of the Government, Pedro Sánchez, to elect an anesthetist to appoint as government delegate in Galicia. I knew Sánchez would need him, that he would need him to acquire a community he knew — I'm sure — that he would be punished by his own government. We don't say so from the People's Party: "67 euros less for every Welshman and 93 more for every Catalan," "Galicia carries the largest investment cut in the state, 757 million, 19% less", "Peter Sánchez marginalises Galicia with the lowest investment in two decades," "The Government reduces investments in Galicia and the priority to Catalonia, the gospy has prizes"... we could follow much longer than this question has been assigned to him for his answer. What is clear is that when the socialists rule, Galicia loses. What is clear is that Galicia is never a priority for socialists, and demonstrates it every time they govern, with the convolence of those in the Galician Parliament laughing because they live with them in the institutions they govern, even those they do not believe. They are also those who support investment and then criticize the budget, because they know they're responsible for that. Everyone recalls the presentation of that initial budget document, which Pedro Sánchez signed with Pablo Iglesias in the Moncloa Palace. When socialists rule, Galicia loses. When socialists rule, there are those who collaborate with socialists to make such things happen. It's true that you can't talk to Pedro Sánchez, mainly because he's not in Spain. I was in the Dominican Republic yesterday, in Mexico today. We hope, from the People's Party, that Pedro Sánchez will once make an official journey to Spain, and that on this official journey we can talk about the general budgets of the State for 2019 and its influence in Galicia. A president who is 53,000 miles away in Falcon in seven months must acknowledge the merit. The perimeter of the earth's globe is 38,000 square kilometers. Well, it's back and forth. [[Strong murmurers.]] It's back and forth to the globe. [[Murmurs.]] Noraboa!, the anesthetist achieved what he intended, to silence the opposition groups, to silence the Socialist Party. The only thing that made the voice clear was the German Government. Today we ask you, Counsellor, for an official assessment of these accounts, to be welcomed by the Socialist Party in Galicia, Podemos, the Tides of Podemos in Galicia, and the Galego Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u407	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u408	Thank you, President. Yes, Your Honor, I thank you for this initiative, because it is true that in the Government we are deeply concerned about the general budgets of the state in Galicia. Because they're bad, they're bad for Galicia, they prejudice and discriminate against Galicia. They penalize Galicia for political reasons and, of course, for other autonomous communities, such as Catalonia. The truth is that they are bills designed in a key of parliamentary subsistence, that's the design for their accounts, accounts that repeat past mistakes, with increased deficits, debt increases; that they are based on serious errors in the income scenario, fictional and unreal income scenario, with 20,000 million more in taxes, an increase in indiscriminate taxes, which is a strong impact on low and medium incomes, even though they sell them as social accounts. An example is the impact of diesel. It's a project of budgets, of course, disappointing and harmful to Spaniards, but above all it's harmful to the Greeks, which we are the ones who have to pay those fees that put partners to the Government of Spain who welcome these bills. The Socialist Party seemed to be under 10% in previous years when it ruled Mariano Rajoy. When he ruled the Bipartite, of course, it was a great achievement of 8%. And now, with 6.2%, it's very difficult to understand your welcome and to applaud these accounts, when Galicia is the lower autonomous community in absolute terms, with only 6.2%. How they've changed, of course, and how they sing these bills! A clear discrimination: Spain, the Ministry of Development, rose by 26 per cent; Galicia dropped by 26.4 per cent; in the Ministry of Development, Spain, on roads rose by 14 per cent, and fell by 26.6 per cent in Galicia; in railways, Spain rose by 42.3 per cent, Galicia dropped by 24 per cent. An aggravation, of course, intolerable these general State budgets for Galicia! [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u409	Silence! [[Strong murmurers.]] Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u410	For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u411	Silence! I'd just miss it! [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence to all! Please, shut up! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! Thank you, the debate will continue. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's it! Silence! Thank you. [[Murmurs.]] You have the floor, for the replica shift, Mr. Tellado Filgueira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u412	I think the advisor would do well to explain the accounts, because here are the only ones we're against these general state budgets. They look very good to you. And therefore, of course, they have to look at the tables of the Socialist Party Members. Because these Members believe that 6% is more than 10%. So, either they don't know math or they betray Galicia. So, I did well for Mrs. Counsellor to show them the tables. [[Applause]] Look, it's unfortunate to be of the Socialist Party in Galicia and that the government delegate sends you this argument that goes around, which is what explains that the accounts are very good even if they're bad. In this argument Mr. Javier Losada — the anesthesiologist — explains that it is better to receive 6% than to receive 10%. That's the communication policy of the Socialist Party in Galicia. Mr. Gonzalo Caballero doesn't appear in this House for good! How will he come if he doesn't dare defend the management of his own Government in Spain! You're right not here! Because he knows that when the socialists rule, Galicia is bad for him. Look, it must be very bad these general state budgets so that the best you have to sell is a pension raise, which is what the government delegate says, a pension raise we've made, the Government of Mariano Rajoy, and a pension raise you have opposed. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It must be very bad budgets for the excuse to say that the matches were not executed before and at the same time say that the AVE is finished. What are we left with? Either not run or the AVE is finished. You can't say both things at the same time, except that one is Javier Losada, who can say both things at the same time because that's his role, anesthetizing a Socialist Party who has abandoned Galicia and who has decided to defend the "Airplane Mode", the "Falcon Mode." [[Murmurs.]] You're with Sánchez, you're not with the people of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u413	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u414	Don't worry, there will be elections, the Greeks will take good note. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u415	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. For the Government's reply, the Minister of Infrastructure and Mobility, Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u416	Thank you. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, the budgets submitted by the Government of Spain represent an inflow, a very important step back on that path initiated to reduce the infrastructure deficit in Galicia. And the truth is that the budgetary effort of recent years was not a gift to Galicia, it was something that corresponded to the Greeks because other autonomous communities have had it for decades. Infrastructure is generating jobs, generating wealth, quality of life, competitiveness and, of course, contributing to curbing depopulation. And the truth is, the Ministry of Development is lowering Galicia by 26.4%, more than 160 million euros less. And, of course — the most serious — they ignore committed actions and miss the word given to Galicia. In the case of railways — going through materials — they contain only departures for completion and to comply with the schedule of AVE to Galicia. The truth is, it was a road without going back, and the truth is, it was an armored infrastructure by the previous Government of Spain. What the current executive does is to continue with the programming and the previous blockage. In the matter of high speed to Lugo, 14 million euros. The truth is, less intensity than necessary, but 14 million euros. But the attention is loudly drawn to the lack of resources and insignificant games in essential performances, apacing sine die the railway improvement The Coruña-Ferrol, apacing sine die the railway variant by Sardinia with Ourense-Vigo; Euro in 2019 for the variant of Ourense! That is, you can bid with zero euros this year 2019, now in the first quarter. They don't understand any budget management. There is no definition in matches for the April trains, necessary for competitiveness. In the area of roads — I would like to insist — Spain rises by 14%, Galicia decreases by 23%. They announce the release of fees on the rest of the motorways, 30% reduction of the fees on other highways, and there's a punishment for Galicia with that incredible escalation of the rates and rates of AP-9. In any case, in infrastructure, shares related to AP-9 — Alfonso Molina, vial 18, Buenos Aires Avenue in Vigo — are also reduced to zero. And even in Vigo, there are no necessary departures for works such as the highway to Vigo. Of course, they are missing the word given and scrape with commitments: the variant of Ourense, the variant of Ponteareas... the highway Santiago-Luco, with 3.2 million euros for the third Palas-Melide, nor is it for the Xacobeo 2021 — nor for the 2021 nor for the 2027 nor for the Xacobeo 2038—. Therefore, discrimination. Of course, we will work at the Galician Union to correct this unfair, discriminatory budget and, of course, disappointing for the Greeks. For my part, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u417	Thank you very much, Counselor. The next question they know was removed by their authors. So, let's turn to question 7.3. Question by Mr Miguel Állado Filgueira and six other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the valuation made by the Government of Greece on the investment of 218 million euros announced by Endesa at the central of the Bridges of García Rodríguez
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u418	To put this question you have the floor to Mrs. Novoa Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u419	Thank you, President. Counsellor, in the People's Group we are committed to the economic and industrial activity of generating wealth on our land. It is not the same with the Government of the State, which has since occupied the Moncloa has managed to have three major companies in our community announce their closure. The closure of Alcoa, the closure of the Meirama power plant and the ERA of Ferroatlantics show an unsustainable situation for the energy industry in our community, which needs an urgent and vigorous solution. It is true that government announcements about the closure of thermal and nuclear power plants before 2030 do not help compromise investments. Ads of lifting the diesel tax and setting a date for the sale of combustion vehicles lead to a decrease in the sale of cars, which directly implies a fall in the manufacture of our automotive plants in Galicia, which generate 12% of industrial employment in our community. New tax announcements to technological companies do not create an attractive scenario for investors looking at Spain to set up their industries. Counsellor, you, since the Government of Galicia, advocate for the tax drop to settle and attract new investors to Galicia, and the Government of the State is going right in the opposite direction. That's how it's difficult to generate credibility and achieve the goal of increasing industrial employment in our community. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known in the energy sector the radical character of Mr. Sánchez's Minister of Ecological Transition for the purpose of wanting to end off with fossil fuels, with a radical ideology that aims to put Spain as a champion again from renewable energy at any price. Well, at any price not, at the most expensive price, Counsellor, because it is known that the closure of the thermal power plants will result in an increase of 15% of the cost of energy, and the closure of nuclear power plants will result in a rise of up to 25%. Price rises, taxes rise, generation of uncertainty with the end of fossil fuels... all, gentlemen, wrong decisions for employment growth, for the pocket, and also for the pocket of all the Welsh and Welsh. Luckily, it was the year 2016 — when the government of the state was in charge of restraint and planning — when Endesa decided to invest in the Euro 218 million Bridges aimed at improving industrial emissions for compliance with European directives, which would prolong the life of the central government for more than 20 years, as long as the central government does not decide anything else or prevents it with inadequate decisions. Throughout the report, Counsellor, the People's Group asks you about the valuation made by the Government of Greece on the investment of 218 million euros announced by Endesa at the bridge center.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u420	Thank you very much. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u421	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Novoa, I would like to thank you for your opportunity to explain in this House the policy and vision that the Government of Greece has in order to comply with the European guidelines and, above all, its commitment to a low-emission model. That means a bet on a sustainable energy policy. But this energy policy has to be accompanied by a transition process that must necessarily be ordered and made easier alternatives not only to the already installed productive fabric, but also to facilitate the competitiveness of companies and the quality of life of citizens. The sector that needs certainty, what needs legal security, and what needs, therefore, is an orderly energy transition. And at this point — it is true — we are facing an improvisation policy that is generating uncertainty and, above all, it is having an impact on employment and also on legal security by companies. And it's making a government that has an obvious lack of industrial policy and that unfortunately has the complicity of all the opposition groups in this House, the complicity of the Socialist Party, the complicity of Podemos, En Marea and the Galego Nationalist Block, which is allowing our companies, industrial and energy companies, at this moment in Galicia, to be going through enormous difficulties. A clear example is, indeed, the territories affected in Spain by the announcement of the closure of nine coal plants; among them, that of Naturgy in Meirama, which affects the municipality of Cerceda. That decision is responsible, responsible by the Government of Pedro Sánchez and responsible by the company, who are making an unfair and, above all, improvised decision. And I say this because the Government itself is taking this decision with a view away from reality, even from the reality of the European Union's own countries. And I send here countries like Germany, which are not making closure decisions at the thermal power plants, although in their energy mix, the weight in Germany at the thermal power stations is 38%. So we argue that the thermal power stations of Meirama and the Bridges are fundamental to Galicia, because their advance closure will mean that it will go from being a community beyond a deficit community. And that Galicia can't afford, in terms of efficiency and also in terms of competitiveness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u422	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the replica shift, Mrs. Novoa Iglesias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u423	Thank you, President. Counsellor, a few months ago with the 6th Commission, we had the opportunity to visit the bridge plant, checking the central's contribution to employment in that region and to the regeneration of the former mine. The truth is, it's really sad that a government's ideology can end up with a company like this. The truth is, the climate of uncertainty fostered by the central government is key to the investment decision for any industry. This government is not worth the thermal, it's not worth the nuclear, neither is the gas, because, for the minister, it can't contribute to an orderly and balanced energy transition either. Ladies and gentlemen, you should be aware that there is not enough renewable or storageable technology; therefore, you should be clear that it will be a direct consequence of the rise in the price of electricity the radical decisions of the Government of Mr Sánchez. And it can also endanger the security of energy supply. Let's hope that we don't have to shut down some power stations and that we won't have to open others for lack of energy; or, what would be worse, that we have to import more nuclear energy from France for closing up Spanish nuclear, the full range of will and a lack of planning. Because, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that when the PSOE rules, Galicia loses. Counsellor, the whole thing is that Mr Losada — the honourable Member is not calm, calm, the flaming delegate of the Government of Mr Sánchez in Galicia — wants to make him responsible for the closure of Meirama to the Council of Galicia. [[Expression taken from the Journal of Sessions by order of the President and with the acceptance by the speaker.]] That's the commitment to the industrial and energy sector... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u424	Silence! Mr. Losada, you are not in the use of the word. It's not in the use of the word! I call it order a second time in this plenary, and you know the consequences of a third call. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You know that. All right? Because today you don't stop interrupting the full, even when your group's spokespersons speak. [[Murmurs.]] Please be quiet. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u425	I insist, ladies and gentlemen, the task is that Mr. Losada, the delegate of the State Government, wishes to make him responsible for the closure of Meirama to Galician Union. That is the commitment to the industrial and energy sector, ladies and gentlemen, to wash your hands when there is a clear responsibility here, clear leaders, gentlemen, who are the Government of the State and the company itself. We could sum up your months as a government delegate with a word: inaction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u426	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u427	The summit is even greater when the Socialist Group stands against, in this Parliament, that Meirama is closed and we observe astonished how the Government of the State hides itself and does nothing to avoid the closure of Meirama.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u428	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u429	Mr. Sánchez agrees that Mr. Feijóo or that Mr. Javier Fernández of Asturias, or Mr. Lambán of Aragon — the two of the Socialist Party — are asking him...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u430	Mrs. Novoa, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u431	...to do something about not closing the power stations. Counsellor, the Galician Union is doing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u432	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Mr. Conde López has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u433	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Novoa, indeed, the Government of Greece is committed to the impulse of renewable energies and, in that sense, we have a coincidence with the Government of the State. Because we have energy guidelines in Galicia since 2018, on the horizon of the year 2020, where there is a clear bet by the Greek Government for clean energy, with an investment forecast of 1,300 million euros to install more than 1,200 megawatts. We therefore have concrete objectives for 45% of final energy consumption to come from renewable sources in 2020. We are working so that Galicia can meet the demands of the European Union that it has marked on the horizon of the year 2030, and therefore in that commitment the Government of Spain can count on Galicia. And within that energy mix, so that it can be competitive, logically, the presence of thermal power plants seems indispensable. Not only so that Galicia can be a community of surplus electricity, but also because in the transition process we have the responsibility to guarantee a stable price, a competitive price, our industry and also our consumers. And we think it's possible. It is possible that companies, as Endesa is doing, are making investments that enable them to comply with these industrial emission directives and that they can therefore extend their useful life to the year 2045 and therefore comply with these European Union emission guidelines. That means for Galicia to keep direct jobs, it means to maintain the economic impact that the bridge power plant has and therefore means to continue to contribute to Galicia's proper energy mix. The Government's speech — and, above all, the Socialist Party — unfortunately is totally different in Galicia and Madrid. I think it would be nice to clarify it. In this Parliament they vote in favour of this energy transition model together with the People's Party. But unfortunately they vote with Podemos and vote with En Marea to defend the closure of thermal power stations, which has a negative impact on our economy. We understand that there must be a correction of the government's energy policy and, above all, that a fair energy transition is promoted, which means in this case giving that opportunity to maintain thermal power stations and, if so, that there are industrial plans to allow that fair energy transition to have no impact on industry or employment in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u434	Thank you, Counselor. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Vilan, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u435	You were not in the Chamber, but I would beg, because of the lack of respect for the government delegate, who is the representative of the State in Galicia, that the Voicer of Industry removes the one from "alias", because alias is nicknamed, and the profession is not a nickname. There are people who don't have a profession, but there are people who do. I'm asking you to remove the one from "anesthetist alas". [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u436	Let's see, I wasn't here, but, as far as I know, the government delegate is a professional anesthetist. No, no, that doesn't work. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, if it doesn't work, we take it off, it's okay, it's withdrawn. Well, Mrs. Novoa, we remove the expression "alas." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes. [[Strong murmurers.]] [[Strong murmurers.]] Quiet, please! A little cordura, a little cordura! Mrs Novoa has already agreed to remove the word "alias" because indeed the delegate of the Government is, in fact, anesthetist of profession. But anesthetist if it's his profession, that no one can contradict... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, we're gonna leave this. Yes, of course, you're right, it's another debate that doesn't deserve it. He's a gentleman who's anesthetist and the subject is over. He has finished, and besides, he must be very proud of being anesthetist, magnificent profession. [[Murmurs.]] Let's go! [[Strong murmurers.]] Question from Noa Presas Bergantiños and five other Members from the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the position of the German Government in front of the state and the European Union regarding the energy transition
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u437	Thank you, Mr. President. After the publicity and self-exculpatory minutes that the People's Party has given us in the last thirty minutes, let's talk about the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks. Mr. Conde, I don't know if you remember this picture. I know you have a very tight schedule, but maybe... well, it was good that I looked at you. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantiños shows a picture.]] I don't know if you remember this picture, the picture we call "Photo of Shame." A picture where you leave, here, with the direction of the ancient Fenosa Natural Gas, current Naturgy, and basically you and Mr Feijó lying to the Greeks and to the Greeks. Here they were practicing that of advertising and propaganda that they so much like and confirm that the thermal power plant in Meirama would adapt to the demands of Europe. The problem is, as long as you're in this self-exculpatory dynamic, you have skills in energy, you have skills in industrial matters. And since then, more dedicated than ruling, they've been dedicated to photos. And in the meantime, they stopped doing their homework. First, they allowed, in a premeditated way, Galicia's absence, discrimination, in successive coal plans. Rajoy went to the State Government and the counties were reduced, commitments were made, and, with the bad excuse that we were importing coal, which was not autochthonous and so on, because of this issue, Galicia's exclusion from the coal plan was justified, when he knew perfectly that mining districts were still dependent on a transition that was important to them. A discrimination which, moreover, we must regret that it has not been corrected today either. As you know, Mr. Count, we don't care who's in the state government. We demand the same from everyone. Secondly, you didn't promote a Greek energy policy either. It would be that you had planned what our future would be like before the end of coal. They didn't plan a policy to lead us to a leadership in renewables, innovation and an environmentally and economically sustainable model. Thirdly, they did not monitor or monitor or urge companies to comply with emission limits and improve their environmental impact, something that should concern them about the health of the Greeks and the Greeks, and our environment, not only about what they say or stop saying to the European Union. In short, Mr. Counsellor, they have long known that this situation would come at some point and without defending a Greek position and proper how we should face the energy transition. Today we want to invite them out of the immobility and self-exculpatory dynamics in which they are installed. And so we asked you, Mr. Conde, at this difficult moment that Galicia is living — in addition to seeing a rise in crises in the Greek industry that we cannot afford — what is the wager of the Greek Government in the face of the energy transition.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u438	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u439	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Presas, I don't think you've paid much attention to my previous answer. I can understand it, so I don't have any drawbacks to repeat it either. [[Murmurs.]] The German Government is clear that it is defending an energy transition in Galicia, but it is defending an energy transition in Galicia and also in Spain that is fair and adapted to the social, economic and industrial reality of our country. And this government has a plan. Perhaps the day of April 2018 that I presented to this Parliament the energy guidelines would not be very careful either. But you should know that these energy guidelines are setting a goal so that 35% of the energy consumed in the community that currently comes from renewable sources can be increased to 45% — precisely when the European Union's target for 2030 is 32% —. Therefore, if there exists, Mrs Presas — although she does not want to recognise it and although this Government has presented its own energy guidelines in this House — a planning, with a programmed investment of EUR 3,000 million in three years precisely so that it can move forward more quickly in an energy mix that allows us to compete in terms of equality with the rest of national and European companies and, above all, that has an impact on employment and the sustainability of our economy. Of course we're looking, therefore, for pattern changes, of course we're looking to efficiently take advantage of the current energy generation park. And that includes, Mrs. Presas, also the thermal power stations of Meirama and the Bridges. I think you should carefully review the statements made in 2015, which were statements made by the company, in no case to the Galician Union. So I shouldn't come here to create confusion and, above all, to lie. That should not be done as an honourable Member. In any case, I can remind you that in this Parliament we are pushing initiatives — within our competences, because I see that it is also confusing in terms of competence at the state level and at the autonomous level in the field of energy policy — and you, Mrs Presas, have not supported any initiative by this Parliament, even to support the investments necessary to comply with the Meirama Industrial Emissions Directive. Unfortunately, Mrs. Presas, you and your group are permanently in "no." And that's how hard it is to create a country. So it's very difficult to give solutions, especially so that our industry is more competitive and, above all, so that our citizens can benefit from an energy policy that has a positive impact on their economy. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u440	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u441	In the "no" are you, Mr. Count: not to exercise it as a German government, but to make a few minutes of advertising ascribed the renovation of the Bridge facilities but not to defend the rights of its active and passive workers, as it happened this morning. No "no" are installed you, Mr. Count. [[Applause]] Confusion and lies. You lied, you lied — I insist, Mr. Conde — that you disregarded your obligations as a government and that you deceived Meirama's state. I've paid a lot of attention, yes, a lot more than your group and yourself to our proposals and questions. He was also attentive when we discussed the energy guidelines here. And it was the BNG who put on the table whether or not the Government of Galicia was going to defend Galicia in the future Coal Plan, whether the Government of the People's Party was going to defend or not that Galicia had equal resources for its mining communities for the energy transition, yes or no? What's the matter is that you change your response according to whether you're in government or not. He was also attentive — but he won't give me time to develop it — to ask, by article 9, to bring them up to those guidelines that seem to be hidden somewhere and that never come. In short, Mr. Conde, what we are concerned about is that our country is not in the best possible situation to deal with what comes from here by 2020, and you, instead of being planning, rather than being demanding from companies... because we don't want to give them public money so they can adapt, but they do what they owe because of the law. And we also have a deep concern because we don't see the active Greek Government, ready to defend also the social rights of these communities and of these workers, and that they are represented in negotiations with the central government. So we ask them to defend Galicia and equal resources for the future, and also to engage in a plan of shock so that this situation becomes an opportunity...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u442	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u443	...and not a problem, because, given its indifference and self-exculpatory strategy, it doesn't seem to be going to be.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u444	Thank you, your time is up. Thank you. Close the question, Economic, Employment and Industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u445	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Presas, the facts are the facts. And you, unfortunately, in the Galego Nationalist Block did not support – they do not support – Meirama's continuity and do not support Meirama's investment to comply with industrial emission directives; that's the reality. You don't support Meirama or the Bridges. So, what are you moving here? [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] If you don't have any kind of commitment and, as always, you have first and second employees when you have to defend the workers' rights. Unfortunately, their energy policy is the policy of no, and with that policy, Mrs. Presas, no country is built. [[Murmurs.]] Look, the independent rate of the Nationalist Block Galego : you know that this tariff is not legal; it's not legal, Mrs. Presas, because you know that the regulatory framework does not allow for differentiation across territories. [[Murmurs.]] And, in fact, you always come here to confuse and say there's a Basque tariff. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Presas, there is no Basque tariff, because you know that this fee benefits companies across Spain, even companies in Greece, who benefit from the same rate as Basque companies. So your fare, first, is not legal, but it's not fair either. And it's not fair because I just assumed that the Greeks would have to pay more for electricity, specifically three hundred million euros a year to finance infrastructure investments and to finance the pay for interruption. But, finally, your independent proposal is not solid either, Mrs. Presas; it is not solid simply because so far no economic memory has been presented in this parliament on your proposal in terms of tariff for our companies. [[Murmurs.]] So I think your proposals, besides being illegal and not being fair, are not solid. At least they should try to support the efforts that the rest of the groups, and specifically the People's Parliamentary Group and the Galician Union, are developing precisely to defend the interests of the workers. And then we will follow, with energy guidelines that allow us to give these answers, but above all, by giving coherence so that the electro-intensive companies and the companies in our productive fabric have a competitive price that makes them compete on equal terms. Unfortunately, at the moment they cannot rely on the support of the Galego Nationalist Block, which also does not support the proposals that electro-intensive companies want to move to the Government. [[Murmurs.]] Madam Presas, the policy of non-Galcia is not moving forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u446	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Luis Villares Naveira and 13 other Members of the G.P. of In Marea, about the performances that the Galician Union will develop to prevent the stop of furnaces in the Ferroatlantic company and its consequences
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u447	Question by Mr Francisco Casal, of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u448	Good afternoon, Counselor. You wanted us to talk about facts. Let's talk about facts: during 2018 Galicia lost eight thousand five hundred jobs in the industry; in September it came into competition from creditors at risk of winding up the company Isowat, leader in Galicia in electrical equipment, which could lead to the loss of nearly 100 direct jobs; in October, Alcoa announced the closure of its factory in Coruña with the risk of the loss of five direct jobs; in November, PSA-Citroën put in place an ERT that affects four hundred workers; Vulcan finds no solutions to their problems and threatens to close, and finally Ferroatlantics turns off two kilns in Cee, which currently affects, between possible ones who went home already and auxiliary companies with rescinded contracts, a few hundred people, at risk of presenting an ERE for the rest of the template. The truth is, counsellor, without accuracy, without any accuracy: are you satisfied with the outcome of your actions in industrial policy? The truth is that they want to paraphrase their voice, Mr. Tellado, and Mrs. Novoa; they want to, quite eager in front of all these facts. When he rules the PP, Galicia loses. Here is where there are concrete facts, because the rest of the opposition hasn't closed anything for now; with you it seems that industrial policy... and I'm not going to get into what your previous profession was, because I think it's a lack of education in which you shouldn't go; I don't know what your previous experience in industrial policy was. The reality of the facts is that as we go... And we're already focusing on the question of Ferroatlantics. The truth is, I don't know how we'll end the legislation, Mr. Conde, at this point. Focusing on Ferroatlantics: as you know, they turned off ovens 13 and 14, where they manufacture ferromanganese and silicone, and they transported the raw materials to the factories they acquired in France and Norway with the benefits obtained from the yields of hydraulic power plants, because they say there they are more profitable to manufacture these alloys than in Cee and Dumbria. I mean, this already implies, for now, 100 people at home, and it could be a much more serious problem. The company's excuses are that they lost money in the last pocket of uninterruptibility. In fact, he dropped them a little bit to... yes, but they received seven million euros for six months, which will be fourteen for the total. [[Murmurs.]] But what's the reality? Last year, hydraulic power stations — which, as you know, are conditioned in the concessions to apply the viability of the factories in Cee and Dumbria — produced about seven hundred thousand megawatts/hours; at the average price of megawatts/hours in the wholesale market, they must enter between thirty-five million and forty million euros. Where were those forty million euros? How is it possible for the company to say that it loses money when it enters between thirty and forty million euros for a good that the Greeks grant it to ensure the viability of Cee and Dumbria?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u449	Thank you, Mr. Casal, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u450	I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u451	He's got another shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u452	What are you going to do, Counselor? Because you won't tell me that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u453	No, time's up, it's over. Thank you. [[Mr. Casal Vidal pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u454	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Casal, let's talk about facts. Look: in spite of the uncertainties we have, unfortunately, in the Greek economy motivated both by the actions that the Government of Spain is doing and by other uncertainties that are emerging in the international environment, Galicia is demonstrating that it is not only a solvency community, but also stable, and that, thanks in part to the policies developed by the Council of Galicia, but above all and especially to the effort it is making the productive fabric, we have the forecast to close this year with growth of the economy greater than that of the state, keeping the same trend that we had in recent years. The year 2018, Mr. Casal, will close again with a new export record, which, equally, continues to grow above the average of Spain, and, above all, closes with the lowest unemployment rate of the last decade and with thirty-two thousand three hundred people occupied more than a year ago. So this is the data, Mr. Casal, of the Greek economy, although we are not being accompanied by the Government of Spain. But you bring here the situation of Ferroatlantics and bring the situation of Alcoa too, and you know perfectly, just like me, that the problem with Ferroatlantics is the problem of the electrical frame, in which the Galician Union has no competences, even though Mrs. Presas has not yet found out about this. And this, Your Honor, is a matter that matters, as you well know, to solve Mr. Sánchez and a government that is supported by his group; you know it perfectly. [[Murmurs.]] So, Mr. Casal, you know that you, together with the Socialist Party, share the responsibility that Spain does not have an energy policy, which, unfortunately, is putting the Welsh industry and the Welsh electrointensive industry in a limited situation; that's reality. It is reality, Mr. Casal, and I will also refer to the facts, because to understand this situation we have to refer to the facts: the price of electricity continues to increase by twenty-five percent; they question the future of diesel by increasing its cost by eighty-five million euros; they are unable to find solutions to the corunca plant of Alcoa, which, in addition, can have an impact on Ferroatlantic and may have a contagion effect on other electrointensive companies; they do not give them opportunities to thermal plants; they do not have industrial plans that allow alternatives to the situation of energy transition, and they present state budgets that include an increase in taxes of twenty billion euros. Mr. Casal, a bit of co-responsibility with Spain and Galicia by the En Marea Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u455	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u456	Counselor, let's see: I could answer everything you said, but I'm not going to let you want to go to the branches. Are you going to tell me that the Ferroatlantic problem is energy cost? Are you serious? [[Mr. Conde López utters words that are not perceived.]] You look like you're a professional who should know about this. Do you know how much megawatt would cost Ferroatlantica if you made self-consumption? Between nine and eleven euros the megavatio/hour, the lowest price in Europe of a factory. Why? Because he's got a water grant from the Greeks that comes out of him for free and practically amortized power station that recently expanded and that could self-supply virtually all the consumption of the factory. And why doesn't he? Because you'd rather sell it. That's right, what you don't do next with those 40 million euros that you get in the market energy sales is to supply your factories, which, as you know, now if you can do, if you can!, check the career books and you'll see how you can do it. Well, if they want to sell, they sell, but then they get into the accounts, because it's a unique work center, Cee-Dumbria Hydroelectrical Centrals. [[Murmurs.]] With those thirty-five or forty million is impossible the Ferroatlantic argument that you're losing money and that's why they close. So what is your obligation, given that it's an administrative concession of the Galician Board, is to review these accounts, see if really that money in energy sales comes into account and they don't go with accounting artillery, as we could already show in 2017. That's your responsibility. And if the ovens are closed with a positive profitability — as we are sure it is — if an audit was done, that would be against the conditions of the concession, which requires the guarantee of the viability of Cee and Dumbria supported by the performances of the hydraulic power plants. So, two alternatives: either they self-supply with their production the factories or they enter the accounts of Cee and Dumbria — from the factories — the revenues of the energy sale.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u457	Thank you, Mr. Casal, your time is up. Thank you. Close this question, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u458	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Casal, I do not believe that it is true that the opposition will again attempt to sow doubts about where the Council of Galicia is located in the case of Cee-Dumbria and in the case of Ferroatlantica; it does not. The Council of Galicia has already spoken and, therefore, it is clear that we are next to industrial activity, we are next to the strict fulfilment of the concession itself. So we're going to maintain this legal security, while respecting the rights of companies, as it cannot be otherwise, and also of companies that fulfill all the legal obligations they have with the territory. What the workers of Ferroatlantica don't deserve, what the workers of Cee-Dumbria don't deserve, and what they don't deserve — they haven't appointed them — the workers of Sabon — they don't deserve — is that you want to divert the debate. The problem of Ferroatlantics, the problem of Soap and the problem of Cee-Dumbria is an energy problem, that's reality. You know that in Law 17/2007 the Spanish Socialist Workers Party established the modality for special regime producers and energy consumers, and you know perfectly well that Ferroatlantica welcomed the compliance of the law in 2008. The regime with which Ferroatlantic is working from an energy point of view is derived from a law of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party that has applied since 2008. Now to pretend to link the situation of Ferroatlantic in Soap and Cee to the energy regime is simply to divert the attention of reality, which is simply that we are facing an energy problem. And, Mr. Casal, I understand perfectly well that you are partners with this government, that you are partners with the Socialist Party Government, that you are not providing energy solutions and that, unfortunately, you are putting into a limiting situation not only Alcohol and Ferroatlantic, but all electrointensive companies. So if you want to defend employment in Cee-Dumbria and you want to defend employment in Sabón, you have to change your postulates and join the theses that defend the sector. And this morning they missed an opportunity, because this morning they went against the sector, because the proposals brought here by the People's Parliamentary Group are the proposals of the sector, and you don't support the sector. Do you want to explain to me how you want to support the workers of Ferroatlantica if you don't defend the positions of the industry itself and the Government of Galicia's Union itself? Unfortunately, I think if they don't change postulates, the workers of Cee-Dumbria do have reasons to be concerned, and I regret that this is the position of the Socialist Party and the Group of the Tide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u459	Thank you, Mr. Count. [[Mrs. Presas Berganginos asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Presas, what do you want the word for? Based on what article?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u460	Yes, I request the word based on article 76.1 for inaccuracies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u461	What exactly is the inaccurateness?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u462	...and for allusions, too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u463	What is the inaccuracy and allusion?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u464	Mr Conde said that this honourable Member did not understand, so I say to Mr Conde... —literally, literally! — [[Murmurs.]] So, I want to explain to you that the BNG Members saw this parliament with the Statute of Read Autonomy, and that if the Galician Union has no competition in industry and energy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u465	No, that's it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u466	...that they do them a favor to the Greeks and the Greeks and that they dissolve their advice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u467	No, I think that... often that expression is used... please, until then we could get there, but fine. I didn't notice in the counselor's tone anything disrespectful or anything that was offensive. Because that would not allow it, on either side or on the other, I'm clear. [[Murmurs.]] No, no. [[Murmurs.]] Let's see: moments of relaxation we can all have, that the full is too long. But, of course, until Members are insulted, no, that under no concept would allow it. If I perceived that, it would be the first to call the councillor to order, but I did not perceive it. Question from G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr. Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and three other Members, on the evaluation made by the Galician Group about the new project by the technology of the ICT City Coruña, promoted by the University of Coruña in collaboration with the ICT Cluster Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u468	Whenever you want, you can ask the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u469	Good afternoon. Counsellor, let's talk about the present, but let's talk about the future. As you know, the University of Coruña has just presented, last December, the impetus to a strategic challenge throughout the information and communication technology sector in Galicia: the creation of the City of ICT in Coruña as a powerful infrastructure for a key alliance of technological companies, academic centres and research centres. This project, as you know well, is born in close collaboration and cooperation with the Galicia ICT cluster and presents to La Coruña what would be Galicia's largest technological centre; on the net, of course, with the other technological poles of Vigo, Santiago or even the Rozas, in Lugo. As you know, important locomotive companies already established in the Coruña and in the ICT sector would see positively this collaborative space, which would be located, as you know, in the facilities of the Arms Factory — in Pedralonga, in the Coruña — which, belonging to the Ministry of Defence, must without further delay count on a new industrial project, after the failure of the award granted to Hercules of Armament. The Ministry of Defence is also supporting the initiative, and this new technology project that drives UDC in collaboration with the cluster would absorb and recycle the staff of the current dealer. Given the ability, Mr Counsellor, of the plant facilities in Pedralonga, it would be compatible with other uses, of course, within the current municipal urban planning. Data analysis — especially in big data fields — artificial intelligence, bio-digital services or cybersecurity are some of the key areas of this project, in which, in addition, the new bet of the University of Coruña with its new campus of Innova specialization, with the mission of deepening the strengths of the ICT sector in its hybridization with areas of knowledge, of life sciences, civil engineering, building, aeronautical or advanced biotechnology. The set of directors and Deans of academic centers and university research centers share the relevance of this project. We would be faced with an opportunity to retain and attract talent and employment. In the creation of this new ecosystem of integration between researchers, technological centres and companies, the role of support, momentum and active collaboration of all public administrations is, as you know, absolutely essential, not only from an institutional perspective, but, of course, from a social and economic perspective. The involvement in a key project for Galicia, of course, requires the highest level of involvement on the part of the German Government. The Economic, Employment and Industry Council — in its three areas of competence, precisely — and the Igape and Gain themselves must be engines in this project, Mr Counsellor. The municipal groups of the Coruña, during these days, are manifesting their initial position of support for this initiative, which will also be discussed in a motion at the municipal plenary next week. Even — unless I'm wrong — the popular candidate — her former Government companion — in the Coruña expressed her positive vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u470	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u471	So, in the face of the doubts the Government is presenting, we asked him what valuation he makes on this technological project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u472	Thank you, it's written and we know it. Thank you. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u473	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Díaz, first of all, I would like to thank the Socialist Party for taking an interest in Galician industrial policy. This is really interesting to me, especially to be able to discuss innovation, digitization and challenge 4.0. So, Your Honor, welcome to the club. And welcome to a club that has been working and developing initiatives for four years, precisely through the Strategy of Smart Specialization, through the Plan Galicia Innovation 2020 and through the Agenda Industry 4.0, to develop a system linking industry with the Greek R & D+i ecosystem. A joint effort that is focused on companies, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, and also logically linked to talent and knowledge transfer. And there are results. So we have a gift to work on your future. Galicia is growing in R & D investment: it was the second largest community in 2017; it is more than 10,000 people in charge of R & D activities, both in companies and in Greek knowledge centres. Industrial policy, innovation policy and ICT-related policy therefore have a reality. We know, ultimately, Mr Díaz, how important ICTs are, we know that the Coruña concentrates fifty-four percent of all employment in the ICT sector in Galicia, which also concentrates more than sixty-two percent of its billing, and that is why we have been working with the ICT cluster for a long time now to create an industrial pole that allows the Welsh ICT sector to be placed on the international map. Working on a project like this has to be a linked and industry-led bet — I hope that you too agree with this approach — because we have to compete with the major ICT innovation centres and we have to have the technological capacity needed for the Greek economy to face digital transformation with more guarantees. And that's supposed to provide infrastructure, both innovation and industrial capacity-building, and develop R+D+i tractor projects. And in that context, Your Honor, that's where the cluster transferred to the Galician Union its programs to develop infrastructure linked to manufacturing laboratories, and that's where we're going to be. We'll see where it is — whether it's in the Arms Factory or elsewhere — but of course there's a clear bet on the part of this government to develop an ICT industry in the city of Coruña. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u474	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u475	Mr. Counsellor, I am afraid of your words which, of course, the German Government and its councillor, the Igape, the Gain... by the way, yesterday I wanted to make this reflection in your last... I don't know if you've had the chance to hear the last words at yesterday's meeting with the Education and University Counsellor. We got a little attention, because we had the feeling, at least, of hearing that it was not a priority on the part of the Greek Government, this new technological bet, not just in the Coruña, but throughout Galicia. I hope it was a certain confusion in that appearance, because of his angry words — so I think he can confirm in his last replication turn — the wager, also on the part of the Greek Government, of participating in the University, with the ICT cluster with which the University is actively participating, with the Council of the Crown and with the deputy on this new bet, in which the Ministry of Defence is actively also necessarily involved. Because if we've already had an installation, with industrial use in municipal planning, I think it might be, by its proximity also to college campuses and research centers, an important point. But the location may be an important theme, but it does not have to be the key theme for this installation or for other installations. In any case, Counsellor, I am reminded, from another perspective, that after ten years of governing Galicia or seven years of ruling in cooperation with the Government of Madrid, all the blame for industrial policies in Galicia and the rest of the world — as it were in an illustrative way — are part of this new socialist government in Madrid. I think that that doesn't have enough solvency to express itself that way. [[Applause]] Because, Counselor, yesterday's EPA data is telling us how Galicia lost three thousand six hundred industrial jobs last year; the rest of Spain lost three thousand jobs. We have a long list with Isowat, Alcoa, Ferroatlantica, the Weapons Factory itself, Meirama etc., which announces a possible loss of others...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u476	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada, your time is up. Thank you. [[Mr. Díaz Villoslada pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Close, economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u477	Mr. Díaz, I haven't talked about the Central Government in terms of industrial policy and innovation policy in my intervention. Clearly, I will transfer to him what is the industrial policy and the innovation policy that the Galician Union has through the RIS3, through the Galician Innovation Plan and through the Industry 4.0 Agenda, which you don't want to accompany, but that's another reality. But, look, the most important thing: it doesn't anger anything, because I think I'm speaking quite clearly; therefore, it doesn't have to infer any kind of position on the part of the Government. The Ministry of Defence and the ICT cluster know perfectly what the position of the Galician Union is; they know it perfectly, in the first person, both the Minister and the Secretary of State of Defense and the ICT cluster. First of all, the first priority is to project the new Coruña hospital on the grounds of the Arms Factory. That is the priority, because it is the priority of citizenship in terms of health. And the second goal is to carry out the ICT industry at the most appropriate location, whether it's in the Weapons Factory, it's in another location. So I don't think you should infer any kind of interpretation, because the position of the Government is clear. There's a commitment by the minister not to mortgage the weapons factory for other uses, waiting to know if it's necessary to build the new hospital there. I hope that the Socialist Group will support this position, because health, as you well know, is the priority of citizenship and because it is not, Mr. Díaz, to add square meters, but simply to see among all that uses are compatible and allow the city of Coruña to have the best solution for both initiatives. Because that's the clear position that the Galician Union has and that's where we have to find solutions to meet health priorities, but also to dynamize the productive tissue. That is where the Galician Union is located in health matters and where the Galician Union is located in industrial and business matters. And we agreed, Mr. Díaz, with the ICT cluster, precisely, to mark this goal of developing the industrial pole by its content rather than its location. And that is where we are called precisely to develop an ICT industrial pole that allows the Coruña and Galicia to take a qualitative leap and place ourselves in the international elite, as we are currently in other sectors. Because when I talk about industrial policy in Galicia, I think it would be fair for the workers and the productive tissue to talk about the situation in the automotive sector, in the biotechnology sector, in the aerospace sector, in the ICT sector or in the food sector. And I'd probably have another idea of what industry is in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u478	Thank you very much, Counselor. Your time is up. Da Eva Solla Fernández, G.P. de In Marea, on the management model of the land-based emergency health transport service in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u479	Question by Mrs Eva Solla, of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u480	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. You always let us try to offend us in the reply, almost all of them; to me, of course, your opinion of me does not offend me at all. But before I start with the question, I'll move that it's also good to remember that you worked in Sergas for three years before becoming a manager. Three years! At the moment I don't have much work experience, but I still get over it, Mr. Almuinho, even in it. [[Applause]] Let's go to the question. Look: workers and workers in the 061 have long been reporting the conditions under which the service is being provided because of the lack of resources, because of the low-income competitions in which companies participate... an absolutely deficit service. As you know, they have warned of the dangers of vehicles that do not comply with applicable regulations, especially in matters of weight and lack of material. And, as a result, in the previous proceedings opened in the Trial of Instruction Number Two of Santiago for alleged crimes of prevarication and trafficking in influence — of course, by an adjudicate who is ex-Deputy of the People's Party — the expert report found that the legislation on excess weight was not complied with. We have already raised questions regarding this circumstance, an absolutely incomprehensible situation affecting the conditions under which the service is provided and which is also added to the shortage of vehicles we have reported. And by the way, we proposed amendments in the budgets to increase that number of vehicles. As a result of the lack of ordinary vehicles, it means that the Galician Union hires, in addition, in a totally uncontrolled way, those support ambulances that do not carry health personnel and that are used to address any type of emergency. We asked them about this last year, and you replied that they were an absolutely timely use. Well, 061 doesn't say the same thing; it confirms that it is used every time the resources belonging to the network of 061, when there are too many injuries in any kind of accident, and when the ambulance that has to be circulating is busy. Moreover, they documentally state that they are companies outside the network with exceptional activities and therefore there is no formal request prior to the moment when the need arises. They're hardly asked for anything, and the reality is they have people without proper titration working in absolutely precarious conditions. Meanwhile, the workers in the network of 061 bear 12-hour shifts of lions in which they can't even stop to eat, as is usually Vigo's case, and situations in which companies say they don't get the money, but they're paying 40 percent less to all the workers who have a practice contract. Are you going to reverse the service to the public?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u481	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u482	Without getting into controversy, Mrs. Solla, I think I have a lot more care experience than you — assistance, I don't say management anymore — but I have to say the data because, if you don't consider all the time I've been doing the specialty, working on emergencies, in intensive care and primary care, then you will have more experience than I do, but I think you're not. Anyway, logically, I don't tell how much experience you have in taking pictures on the fronts of hospitals and health centers. [[Applause]] That's not a care practice for me. Look: the current model in Galicia is a model similar to that of other autonomous communities, supported by good evaluation by patients and the rest of citizenship. It is a model that allows the implementation of pioneer programs of effectiveness. The Public Foundation Emergency Health Galicia-061 has recently renewed, in October 2018, the European Seal of Excellence, a recognition of quality, rigour and commitment in the provision of emergency services in Galicia. The evaluation carried out highlighted especially the good level of excellence in the management of the organization, as highlighted by the scores achieved in the results of its innovative management. Other outstanding values were competition and commitment to their professionals. As regards the procurement process of the land-based emergency transport service, it has been carried out in accordance with the Royal Decree and the recast text of the Public Sector Contracts Act is approved — we believe and believe that we must comply with the law. Thus far, it is collected in the resolutions of eleven appeals before the Central Administrative Court of Contractual Resources in favour of the Public Health Emergency Foundation of Galicia. Eleven resources. In accordance with the procedure laid down in the Autonomic Administration applicable at that time in contracts awarded by the tendering procedure, the weighting of the price as a criterion for awarding a contract could not be less than 40 per cent of the maximum score. It's the law, it's not a whim. None of the fourteen lots in which the recruitment of the emergency and land transport service in the Autonomous Community of Galicia was divided into a low-temperary offer. The economic offers of tenderers were lower than tender prices, but in no case could they be considered disproportionate offers, in accordance with the criteria laid down in the provision of particular administrative clauses, which were addressed by the Legal Counsel of the Galician Health Service and informed favourably by the General Intervention of the Galician Board. The existing contracts signed with the adjudicate companies fulfil their obligations with regard to staff employed and compliance with the applicable provisions on labour law enforcement and the provisions of the collective agreement of the sector throughout the entire performance of the contract. As labour and social legislation establishes, it is the adjudicators, in relation to their staff, who bear all the rights and obligations inherent in their status as employers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u483	Thank you, Counselor. Your time is up. He's got another round later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u484	...unless in any case you can claim for your personal right no...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u485	Counselor, time's up. [[Mr. Vázquez Almuínña pronounces words that are not perceived.]] He's got another round later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u486	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u487	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u488	Thank you, President. Your Honor, you should not be ashamed that only after three years of working on Sergas Lord Aboal will rescue you to give you an agency. [[Murmurs.]] But, look: we're going to talk about the 061 contract because — restlessness! — if it seems right to you the situation of some workers who have you paying less than the minimum interprofessional wage, I'd like you to say it here. [[Murmurs.]] You have contracts in practice, they allow absolutely pirate contracts in which the workers charge the first year a forty percent less of their salary, the second year a twenty-five percent less of their salary, and they keep the workers with an ultraactivity agreement since 2015. [[Pause.]] Lord Man, don't tell us milongs! Contracts go down and companies play with this element all the time, because they know that then the workers are going to strike and you're going to give them more money in the next contract. That's the reality, Mr. Almuño, allowing them to violate the law as to weights and regulations. Do you know that infectious patients enter ambulances before immunodepressed patients and there is no control because there are not even protocols? Do you know, Mr. Almuño, that there is no time to clean up ambulances between service and service? Do you know, Mr. Almuña, that the privates use the same ambulances as we do, that we are paying them from the public era the transport to Polusa, Povervisa, Adeslas and all the private clinics in the country with the public money? Answer the question we ask you, Mr. Almuña! Have you studied or are you going to study transferring this service directly? In other communities it is already being done. Don't be, as always, the last of you to take note of what needs to be done from a management.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u489	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Close this question, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u490	Mr. President, if I stayed a little longer the previous intervention was because I had to answer something that had nothing to do with the question. Study my resume better because I think you're reading it wrong. You have an obsession, but you can consult him, even ask the people who know you, who worked in the same hospital as me -- in the Mexoeiro Hospital -- from the base, from the bottom, at the bottom. And I've come, yes, to be a manager, but from the very bottom. And you can ask why I think you know people who worked in that hospital agreeing with me. Look: as I say, the obligations of companies are obligations of companies. We have to keep an eye on it, but, of course, we cannot be present in the defense of relationships that can always be difficult in a private company between employees and companies. Of course, what we say is: transparent contract in execution, a service appreciated by citizenship and, as I say, all ambulances that integrate this urgent health transport network comply with the Royal Decree 836/2012, so the technical characteristics, the health equipment and the personnel of the road transport vehicles are established. At the moment — because there has been talk of different things — as they confirm expert reports — these are complaints by the illustrious Official College of Industrial Engineers of Galicia asked by the foundation to know independently the real situation of ambulances that it has contracted, they comply with European regulations. The health insurance companies submitted an application to the Public Foundation for health emergencies in Galicia to amend existing contracts and, if not possible, the resolution of such contracts, arguing only and solely on economic grounds. Both the Fundación Pública and the Galega Federation of Ambulance Entrepreneurs ensure the continuity of the provision of the urgent health transport service. Ladies and gentlemen, the Earth's urgent health transport, which is agreed upon by the Public Foundation, is a service that guarantees to all Greek citizens the accessibility, fairness and efficiency of high-quality assistance. A service, of course, provided by magnificent professionals. A service that reaches satisfaction levels on the part of users with an average service score of 9.3. At present, work is being done on the development of the new requirements for the immediate recruitment of the Earth Health Transport Service to comply with the expected deadlines for the conclusion of the current contract. But from here on, from the Galician Parliament, of course, we appeal to the responsibility of the parties, both companies and workers, to feel and arrive at agreements and not to disturb the users of the public health service — who, as I said earlier, do so, of course, with a very high rating. That is why I would like to remind and repeat that land-based emergency health transport guarantees to all citizens that accessibility, fairness and efficiency of high-quality assistance.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u491	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u492	And, therefore, we will continue to work for service improvement, because we have a level...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u493	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u494	...and a high-quality service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u495	Thank you. We are now debating, in an inclusive manner, the question of Mrs. Maria Dolores Toja, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and Mrs. María Monserrat Prado, of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Da María Dolores Toja Suárez and Patricia Otero Rodríguez, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the concrete measures to be carried out by the Government of Galicia to provide security the port of Malpica Question by Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the measures to be taken by the Sea Council to improve security in the back, as well as in the ports as in the Malpic
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u496	The question begins with Mrs Toja of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u497	Good afternoon. First of all, I would like to thank you today for your assistance to this whole family of the fisherman O Silvosa and move our condolences and our deep sorrow from our group. [[Applause]] As you know, in the early morning of December 20th, the Silvosa fishing boat sank into the port of Malpica, a port where currents and rowings are produced that cause a constant danger. In this case, the boat struck against giving it and dumped it. A tragedy that could be avoided. Simply anyone who could ever see the boats coming out of the port of Malpica would see that, far from being a routine task, it's rather a job full of skill, courage, fearlessness. The crusader reality is that every day people who work at sea face this danger, and they have to do it because it's the way to bring the money home. Fear and insecurity: and to the sea we must not go with fear; we must go with respect, but not with fear. And in the port of Malpica, you're scared. Look, you're here today, Counselor, you're in the representation of the Greek Government, and, as a representation of the Greek Government, you manage our public resources and you're also responsible for the good state of these public resources. So I'm going to ask you two very simple questions that have a clear answer: either yes or no. The first question is, did you know, as a Government, that there was a risk in the port of Malpica that made it extremely dangerous? Yes or no? The answer is yes, I knew it. Have you taken the necessary measures to prevent these accidents? Yes or no? The answer is no. So you draw conclusions. For our part, we have them clear, as we also have clear that we cannot go on like this, that we have to equip the safety ports of this type of disaster so that they do not happen again; as we have clear that we have to signal the beatings, which have not been signalled since 2015, despite the fact that there is a plan that has been announced enormously by their group; as we also have to do the dragons that are pending, which are also a matter of security; as they have to comply with their 2015-2020 Strategic Plan, which is still one year away for their victory, and in this same plan they state that there is a need to modernise the ports of Galicia for security supplies and also improve the safety of the people working at sea, and how they must also comply with Resolution 56, adopted on May 10, 2016 unanimously in this Parliament, the Strategic Plan of Galicia, which said that it would be put in place and would complete a program for, among other things, the installation of anti-funding mechanisms. Today it was said here that the facts are made; the facts are clear: they have strategic plans written, but they don't carry them out. So today we asked them what measures are going to take to provide the port of Malpica with security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u498	Thank you very much, Mrs. Toja. You have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u499	Good afternoon. I also want to begin, on behalf of the BNG, by greeting the families who are upstairs in the gallery and transferring our condolences to them. And I mean, at the end of December, Galicia's back lived a real tragedy when it occurred, with only twenty-four hours of difference, two shipwrecks that claimed the lives of five sailors. The first, on the 19th day of a siege boat, Sin Queer Two, with the sad balance of four dead sailors and one still missing, all of Cambados; and the next day, on the 20th day, the Silves effectively dumped and sank on the same dock as the port of Malpica, leading forward the life of the boss. Today we asked you about these questions, Counsellor, because more than a month after these tragedies occurred, we had absolutely no information from you or your team on any of these issues. And we also asked him why José Ángel's mother, the mariner who died in Malpica, addressed to us asking for support and that we would be interested in the matter, and moved us a letter — which moved them to all groups — that I am going to read, because I think it's good that all of the Members and Members who are here know her, because I think it's very enlightening, and tell us: "I am the mother of José Ángel, a mariner who died at the port of Malpica last December. His death is especially painful because, in this case, he could have avoided it. The entrance to our gift was designed in such a way that currents and rowings are often formed that cause unnecessary danger every day and for all ships. I'm coming up with a video of how they should make the entrance and how fast they won't be trapped in this deadly trap any day that there's a little strong sea, which, as you know, are many on our backs. We ask the Galician Union and the Central Government to conduct a study and offer a solution so that no sailor will die again at the doors of their home, as they say, and in a routine maneuver. Apparently, there are technical solutions. We want them. Not one more dead. I'll transfer this letter to you, and the first demand, Counselor, is that you heed what the mother of a dead sailor demands. [[Applause]] And we also ask you, Mrs. Quintana, because this drama highlights the lack of protection on our backs, the lack of means and the dilated response times of rescue services. The helicopter that came to the rescue of Sin Querer Two came from Alvedro, when Cee's rescue base has been closed for four years: about two million euros ruined in a helicopter, an inoperative ship, closed installations, to which you must add 13 million euros that cost a helicopter that turns out it's here, in Compostela, seventy kilometers from the back. The information we have is that the helicopter delayed -- I won't say the minutes, but many -- when there could be a helicopter four or five minutes from where the Sin Queer Two sank.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u500	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u501	The safety of seafarers is a priority, must be a priority, Counsellor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u502	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u503	......the end, Mr. President, must be a priority...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u504	No, it's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u505	...as long as they're going out of business, and more than once...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u506	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Now you've got another round you can follow. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] The sea councillor, Mrs. Quintana Carballo, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u507	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Prado, Mrs. Toja, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, what I wanted is to express all our affection and solidarity to José Ángel's family, but also to all the families of the deceased and the missing of the Sin querer Dos, of those shipwrecks that, as it was said here, happened on 19 and 20 December last year. [[Applause]] I believe that love, solidarity and something that must also be made clear in the acts of this parliament is that for us, for the Government of Galicia, safety in the sea and security for all the people who work at sea is a central element and it is an armored bet for all this government, but also for this council. It's been and it'll always be. For that improvement we work on both active and passive security. Over the past three years, we have responded to more than one hundred and forty-six requests for improvement actions on board, and absolutely all the requests that met the requirements have been addressed; there was not a single one left. Over the past three years, we have also begun a reinforcement of both the human and technical resources of the Coast Guard Service: twenty-two people who are already operational in the Coast Guard Service and twenty-eight will enter on February 8. The patrols have been renewed too: two boats are about to be launched and three new ones are already in tendering phase. That is, by the year 2019 we have doubled the funds for the improvement of the equipment of the ships and we have increased by five percent the counties destined for the operation of Galician Coast Guard Service, reaching an increase of 15 percent accumulated in the last four years. In any case, and in relation to accidents at sea, this council is and will always be the first to analyse the conclusions and recommendations for improvement that it issues after each of the accidents to the Marine Accidents and Accidents Commission of the Ministry of Development. We understand that technicians must bring those lines of improvement closer to us and we must put them into action. I say this because we want to improve safety for our seamen, and all because, for us, when there's only one dead in the sea of Galicia, it's a bad year. Focusing on the specific case about what they're asking and referring to the case of Malpica, we believe and we want to improve their safety. That's our commitment to both the confrerery and the family of José Ángel Sanjurjo and the entire fishing sector. We've already started the step to make sure we're working in that direction. It must be said that in Malpica we have always been dealing with those improvements that have been demanding our own confrere of fishermen and that it has led us to allocate more than 1.5 million euros in that port in recent years, mainly in port security itself, which I have assumed an investment of seventy-five percent of those funds I have just commented on. There is no doubt that the sailors themselves have told us that we are facing a complex port in their configuration and also in their location. That complexity comes from two issues that we're already analyzing and that have to do with security. We're talking about security at the exit and entrance of the port and at the very mouth of the port, and we're talking about the currents that are generated inside the dock by the very narrowness that the dam has with respect to the coast. It's not easy to adopt solutions to reconfigure and improve a port that was born in its current layout eighty years ago and that sees how its behavior has been operating for more than 50 years now. That's why technicians — and not politicians — are fighting different possibilities, and these have already been told to both José Ángel's family and to the confrerer in weeks ago. At this point, different improvements are barred, such as lowering the access channel in the driveway to gain silence and eliminating borders that distort the channel's currents. In addition, we are also analyzing the influence that currents might have in extraction, the expansion of the hammer of the dam or the construction of a contradiction in the ground area. In any case, these improvements do not dull their own analysis of the influence of the enlargement of the dam — always complex by the impact procedures — and whose assignment must be checked for certainty to contemplate its approach due to the improvement of the shelter, but also the possibility that it may even increase the currents within the port. So we're working under the criteria of the technicians and with the support and knowledge of the mariners that group the confrerery. We're working, as we've come to do, rigorously, because here are no experiments, to respond to that commitment and to comply with that strategic plan that you pointed out. It serves as a figure that, to shape that fulfilment, one hundred and thirty-three million euros have been invested in ports since 2009, still in times of crisis. We don't want accidents at sea or at ports. That's why we're working on improving our port infrastructure and improving security on board. We work for and for our people at sea. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u508	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the replica round you have the word, first, Mrs. Toja Suárez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u509	Thank you, President. Counselor, they're working and they say they're willing, but I ask you, for when, Counselor? Because, as I know, they're also working on the battle signaling plan since 2015, and we've had to regret the sinking of the New Marcos. They're working, they've been working on the lax dredging since 2012, and they've also sunk Maria Cristina. So it's important they're putting dates on the table because, in the meantime, what? In the meantime, what? Does it take another five years to give a solution to the port of Malpica? They're working, yeah, but another five years, I tell you? And I also ask you, what kind of solution are you fighting? A patch or a definitive solution? Because we're seeing them fix... it's true, Counselor, don't mind, it's true: everything they propose is patches, and so they have the Greek ports. [[Applause]] I've already told you: battle signaling plan, since 2015; laxe dredging, in 2014. Tell us the years, tell us the years, and tell us if we're gonna have to wait so long. Because, look, you put your public accounts above the safety of the people of Greece. Yes, they have just given up right now an increase of 0.5 over the GDP of public expenditure, which is about 300 million. And look at those 300 million if they were given to modernize our ports according to the Plan strategico galego, see if they were given them! Three hundred million euros, despite being authorized by Europe. So, counselor, today we want to hear you seriously and with commitment that you will be committed to making the port of Malpica and the rest of the Greek ports secure, that you will run more than four euros out of every ten than you have in the programme 723, in the program "Health and security", that will return to you the nine hundred thousand euros that I had in 2017 and now it's only three hundred thousand euros. We need to listen to it, because today a MP here said that ruling is listening. We think one more step must be taken: listen and actions, because otherwise we're not doing well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u510	Thank you very much, Mrs. Toja. You have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u511	Counsellor, at the BNG today, we want you here to compromise. He just said he has a commitment to solve the problem of the Malpica port, and we would also like him to say deadlines. Because, for now, you say that you are committed, that there is a promise, but the promises, while they are not realized, while there are no deadlines and while the solution is not, they do not cease to be a promise; and, of course, we are too accustomed to promises that will not be fulfilled. He knew about the risk and he didn't do anything; we want him to stop happening again. Let's add to the requests that come from Malpica. And we want commitments because, of course, not to do so is to take risk or tragedy as a routine and as something inevitable and, of course, in the BNG we're not going to add to the risk and tragedy being something inherent to people and to work at sea. Of course, we're not going to do that. Obviously, we have to follow the conclusions of the investigation committees, but we have to ask ourselves why the fishermen are sinking; we also have to ask ourselves, then why the sailors die, because sinking does not have to be synonymous with dying. We have to ask ourselves what is the agility of the means of rescue, how many we have, where they are located, what are the times of response of the air forces to turn to the disaster, what time they were activated, what time they arrived, when all these issues have to be asked, what answers we have to know, and we have to put on resources to prevent the times of response from being as long as, on many occasions, they are taking place. So today, we ask you to actually meet the demands that come from Malpica, but put deadlines to attend to them, to work to equip Galicia with a maritime rescue service according to the needs and dimensions of our fleet, and to provide an operational base to the Death Coast to save lives.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u512	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u513	Because the Coast of Death cannot have an inoperative maritime rescue base after...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u514	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] Your time is up. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. That's it. Time's up. You have the word of the counsellor for Mrs. Quintana Carballo's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u515	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Toja, Mrs. Prado, I think you were born by the sea and you must know what it's like to do in the sea. It's not as easy as trying to build a building in the middle of an urban area; work in the sea takes time and you have to plan it, and for that, technicians are needed. You ask me for a commitment, and I say that my commitment has already given it to José Angel's family as well as to the Malpic Fishery Congress. You told me I knew the risks; we all knew them. Every job has its own risk, zero risk doesn't exist, and nobody can be deceived. But I'm telling them: Malpic's behavior has been 50 years, the port of Malpica has been designed for eighty years, and at no time has there been any accidents. Now there's one, and that one must already lead us to make decisions, and that's what I've done by committing myself to José Angel's family and the Malpic confraría, and there are already port technicians working on finding solutions to improve security in that port. I can't tell them deadlines, no, because I'm not a technician, I'm not an engineer, I don't know what the possible solutions can be because, as I say, we have to study them, we have to analyze the currents, and then decisions will be made. The political decision is made: you will have to make the necessary investments to improve port security, as I did in Laxe and how I do everywhere. My commitment is to seek out the necessary funding to address the actions. I'm actually surprised that you sometimes want to use the pain of people to attack a government. Yes, they're using the pain of people when they come here with certain approaches, because to see it: Mrs. Toja tells me why no investments were made earlier in the port of Malpica. [[Balbordo.]] Hey! In the time of the Bipartite they made investments in the port of Malpica, investments of 4.2 million euros, and you know why they made those investments? To urbanize the port of Malpica. And they didn't even call the chief boss of the Malpica Congress to inaugurate those works. It would be because you knew what to do in the port of Malpica, but they didn't do any work to improve security, they urbanized the port of Malpica. But you, when you decided to create the rescue base, the helicopter in Cee, you didn't even listen to the technicians who advised you not to make a helicopter there, because if you knew that the conditions in that area wouldn't allow helicopters to fly at night, nor would you allow helicopters to go out for many days in the fog, as it was later believed; like that helicopter that was planned by the ministry to put on Cee base and it has to be here in Santiago because it has no operation there. That's tricking people, gentlemen. [[Murmurs.]] You guys had a 20-minute helicopter response time. We managed to put the helicopters into service twenty-four hours a day, the 300 sixty-five days a year, with a response time of ten minutes. That's the commitment to maritime rescue improvements. So my commitment: as long as there's one accident, I'll certainly not be calm, I'll look for every means to try to eliminate the risks, even though everyone knows that zero risk doesn't exist, unfortunately, in the sea or in any other activity that can be developed. Anyway, our commitment will always be to not make political decisions to put a base here or put a hammer there or extend a dam over there; it will always be the technicians who advise you which are the best decisions to make for all our ports and for all of our ships to be more and more secure. And on that line, of course, they have my commitment to keep working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-01-30-DSPG100.u516	Thank you very much, Counselor. At the end of the agenda, we raised the session.
