ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u1	Good morning. We begin the session by apologizing to Mrs. Concepción Burgo's assistance, whom we wish for a prompt recovery. The debate and the vote on the motions for resolutions have taken place today. The development of the session will take into account the Bureau and Speakers' Agreement of 17 December, and will be carried out as follows: a separate announcement of grouping and voting of motions for votes in accordance with the information received by parliamentary groups; a round of speeches by spokesmen of parliamentary groups for the presentation and overall defence of all motions for resolutions for a period of 20 minutes per parliamentary group; and a round of fixing of positions of parliamentary groups for the proposals of other groups for a period of ten minutes per parliamentary group. Finally, we would vote on the motions for resolutions. So first of all, you give the floor to the Secretary of the House to read out the Bureau's agreement on the motions for resolutions admitted by the Bureau and its voting group. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u2	Thank you, President. "I agree on the qualification and admission of the motions for resolutions. 1. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 26 September 2019, examined the motions for resolutions formalised by parliamentary groups in connection with the general policy debate of the Autonomous Community of Galicia in 2019. A deadline of 1.45 p.m. for the Joint Parliamentary Group to reformulate motion for a resolution number 1; by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales, the motions for resolutions Nos 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17, 20, 21, 24, 25, 27 and 38, and the Joint Parliamentary Group of the Left, the proposals for resolutions Nos 23, 25 and 26, with the aim of adapting them to the provisions of Article 141a.4 of the Galician Parliament's Rules of Procedure and the qualifications criteria established by the Bureau of the House on 17 September 2019, following the hearing of the Speakers' Board. In order to comply with the requirement to prevent separate voting, the Bureau agreed that proposals should not contain paragraphs numbered or identified by letters. After the said deadline, the Joint Parliamentary Group, the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and the Left Joint Parliamentary Group presented the motions for resolutions reworded. The Bureau therefore adopted the following agreement: First. Qualification of motions for resolutions (a) Motions for resolutions submitted by the Joint Parliamentary Group, document No. 56408: forty motions for resolutions submitted. The process is allowed for the motions for resolutions once motion for resolution No. 1 is recast, document No. 56433. (b) motions for resolutions tabled by the Group of the Party of the Nationalist Block of Wales, document No. 56413: forty motions for resolutions submitted. The motions for resolutions after recasting paragraphs 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 20, 21, 24, 25, 27 and 38 are allowed. (c) motions for resolutions tabled by the Left Joint Parliamentary Group, document No. 57411: forty motions for resolutions submitted. The process is allowed for motions for resolutions after recasting paragraphs 23, 25 and 26, document No. 56438. With regard to the reformulation of proposal No. 26 and taking into account its content, the second Vice-President announces that the parliamentary group will make a mistake correction. The Bureau shall delegate its post-qualification to the Presidency. (d) Motions for resolutions tabled by the Galician Parliamentary Group of Socialists, document No. 56410: forty motions for resolutions submitted. Forty motions for resolutions are allowed to proceed. (e) Motions for resolutions submitted by the People's Parliamentary Group, document No. 56413: forty motions for resolutions submitted. Forty motions for resolutions are allowed to proceed. Second. Policy warnings 1. With regard to proposals for parliamentary bodies by resolution of the plenary, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure and the precedents, their creation is subject to prior compliance with the regulatory requirements required for each body. 2. For the Resolution of the Presidency of the House of 26 September 2019, document No. 17118, the correction of errors to motion for a resolution No. 26 in document No. 56447. Third. Agreement on proposed transactions and motions for a vote separate from the motions for resolutions 1. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 27 September 2019, after considering the compromise proposals and requests for separate voting of motions for resolutions, having regard to the above criteria, adopted the agreement which has been communicated today to the members of the House. 2. The compromise proposals imply the collapse of the motions for resolutions on which they are being dealt, so they will not be put to the vote. 3. The resolution will be put to the vote, not the explanatory part of the motions for resolutions." That's all, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u3	Thank you, secretary. We therefore begin with the debate on the motions for resolutions, with the turn of the parliamentary groups for the overall presentation and defence of the motions for resolutions. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Verao has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u4	Good morning. "There is a disconnection of political practice from the daily practice of citizenship," Alberto Núñez Feijóo said. It looked better if you were looking in the mirror. We, on the other hand, think that maybe if you were looking at that painting that the way Dorian Gray has on the facade, that famous Wilde novel in which an eternal young Dorian has a portrait on the facade that's what's aging about him, that's what's going to be deformed as moral corruption advances. We consider that hidden painting, sometimes hidden from the TVG, hidden, of course, from the triumphal speeches, that painting is the real Galicia. And indeed, the disaffection of citizenship with institutional policy is extinguished as the social crisis advances. Because as much as they say the numbers we've been leaving the recession since 2014, the social level has been a dismal picture, with calculations that already speak of economic downturn, with geopolitical tensions that will affect the Greek economy, that, if we are going to discuss it here in this session, the future is not, of course, hopeful, when we still do not overcome the consequences of the great recession in 2008. As much as our president is anxious to say that we live better than in 2009, that painting of the facade says that the level of population employed has not yet surpassed that of 2008, that 60,000 Greek households have all their assets in unemployment and that the active population falls, especially the group between 20 and 29 years old. It has been clear throughout this debate that they are not interested in the data coming from the opposition. Well, you can look at these last ones, which are from the 2018 report that publish Abanca's Idega and Afoundation, because the data only deepen in the diagnosis: the macroeconomic recovery at the doors of a possible recession did not reach the social majority. More unsuspecting data: IGE 2013-2016, GDP has grown above what it has done to make the income of the Greek households. The Tax Agency, 2016, a person in the collective with more than one income from Greece was equivalent to 91 in the collective with less income. In 2018, the only income group that grew in cash was that of which received less than half of the minimum interprofessional wage. I mean, we're in the decade that Galicia has improved; if Galicia of the Feijóo decade has improved, but it has improved for the richest. There is an essential element that gives a measure of the impact of inequality and injustice, and it is the weight of waged labour on the whole of GDP, and that if in 2009 it represented almost half of GDP, we are in 2018 at 42.4%; of the lowest levels of the state and the European Union. This convergence with the EU and the state of which Feijóo boasted so much is this: convergence also below in inequality. Finally, the crisis can say — we could say it but now confirm — that it was a scam to increase the wealth of one percent richer here and around the world. That, and not other intentions that I intended to attribute Feijóo, is the bottom line of political disaffectation and its monsters. A majority of the social groups are suffocated by the precariousness and deterioration of public services, implicated in a political instance that is not who, that we are not able to solve the problems and fulfil the theoretical function for which we have been selected, some institutions that have stood on the side of the bailout of the bank but not on the side of the social rescue. That's the decade of Feijóo, that's the painting of the deformed facade: a Galician in social crisis, in ecological crisis and in feminist crisis. [[Applause]] The picture is so brutal that there has been a substantial change in the structure of family spending, but let's remember that there are 40% of those who don't reach the end of the month. According to data from the INE family budget survey — we understand that they will not be suspected of the People's Party either — they confirm that the Greek families occupy 30% of their basic income. And here we have another data that measures this Feijóo decade: the average household expenditure in our country was in 2008 even 3,000 euros above what is in 2018. But it's more significant that spending has been reduced in such concepts as food, personal care, clothing, footwear, press and books, while rising what needs to be disbursed by the supply of water and other basic services as housing. Since 2008, expenditure, for example, in electricity, gas and other fuels has increased by 25.3%. So, the Feijóo decade is the decade of the intensification of energy costs, without the Junta doing anything to go to the root of the problem. So in Marea today we bring here a resolution that defends mechanisms that end with the bill of light scam, so we propose a new regulation of the electricity sector and so -- they can test it -- one of the words that is most repeated in our motions for resolutions is energy. Renewable energies to curb the climate crisis, energy as a social good to combat the social and industrial crisis, with plans for industrial transition and decarbonization, with the impulse of self-generation and self-consumption of solar and geothermal energy and with an effective plan for energy rehabilitation of buildings. But another fact of this survey also reveals that the housing already occupies two out of every ten euros of expenditure, rising almost ten percent since 2008; but in the case of leases, the cost has risen by 51 percent. And this is another dimension of the crisis in this decade of Feijóo, the housing crisis. That painting of the facade returns a despondent panorama on the right to the house. So one of our resolutions we hoped for was that it was something, which was a country purpose for the next ten years, and we have a public housing park worthy of such a name, which would, of course, accommodate the huge demand of nearly fourteen thousand people of social housing. It's the only effective way we have to intervene in the housing market. It's been seen that the renting aid didn't work, the patches don't work; our country needs a public housing park. And that's possible to do in a country that has the highest rates of empty housing. During this debate we have seen them continuously to the People's Party and Feijóo particularly propose the defense of the Constitution. They defend the articles that defend the majority of society, to see if that constitutional patriotism is Article 47 and not just Article 135 and those that are in favour of finance. By the way, the Foesa report has also been published these days — an institution, also like Caritas, which will not be a suspect — which confirms that housing is the main factor of social exclusion in our country. So, a majority of the society is driven by the price of housing and energy, because precariousness is already the main feature of the German labour market. That's why one of the axes of our resolutions is a plan to shock the precariousness of work. Labour precariousness conditions everything: the possibilities of reconciliation, the ability to decide how and when to have offspring, the health itself — a recent report also confirms what we already suspected: health is a class issue — the possibilities of stay in rural areas. And women are one of the social groups that most abandons the rural environment, and when they remain one of the more they have to bear a high load of care due to the lack of services. We therefore have a labour market in which precariousness is the norm; precarious work in the private enterprise and, worse, precarious work promoted by the public administration itself. It's a fact that during this decade, the quality of services has been maintained thanks to staff over-earning, because Junta is a precarious job agent. This is evident in the centres of direct social policy care, in the centres of older people, with impossible rates that do not cover the needs that exist, with people who suffer from low work — the biggest in the world — for over effort, with women who have to work with analgesics in order to be able to resist. Because they haven't recovered all the cut rights since 2012, they haven't recovered the right to rest. That's why we also propose one of our resolutions to recover all the public staff rights that have been cut back since 2012. But also Sergas' temporality. We've had occasion to see during this period of sessions how the life of these thousands of people, most of them potential women, who work in the Galician Health Service: because they don't know if they're going to have work or not, who call them an hour to go to work the next or -- what's worse -- who call them at three to what they had to be working for at two. That's a common point, and not only those who work as possible in Sergas, but all staff. Because the system does what it does is to overload all personnel. That's why we also, of course, propose that there be a large supply of public employment that proposes a stabilisation plan, especially in health care, and that all vacancies no longer covered since 2012. And we also said that Junta is a precarious employment agent, because when it hires, instead of having a social policy in recruitment, which is what we propose in the resolutions, because it hires companies that do not respect the right to conciliation, or hire essential services, such as the information service to the citizenry of 012, allowing poor wages, allowing it thanks to that labour reform which we, of course, propose to derogate from our resolutions, allowing workers, because they are most women, they are not remunerably recognized the training merits that they require for the job. The Board prepares a set of conditions that give absolute arbitrariness to those who acquire such an invitation. An absolute arbitrariness in essential services. Then do it: to answer the social phone, 675 euros. These are the contracts of real Galicia: 675 euros. How can you with 675 euros a month, with part-time work, pretend that women decide to have children? How can you? We are speaking, by the way, of one sector, telemarketing, which occupies thousands of people in our country, composed mainly of women, where the working climate is of terror, and only twenty euros more than the minimum interprofessional wage, with professional diseases, fear whether or not that day you're going to be fired or not, stress because there are those obligations of performance, uncertainty, chain of temporary contracts... that's impossible to reconcile. So we wanted to ask the People's Party whether that is — these contracts — Galicia Quality or Galicia Xacobeo. Rather, it is Galicia's low cost, which is also a model of employment that they promote for this tertiary sector of tourism and hospitality. [[Applause]] That's why he said a plan of shock against job insecurity, a collective negotiation of employers and Greek trade unions in six months to design that plan, with times and budgets, because we don't deserve statements. Your motions for resolutions are a toast to the sun. We want time, targets and budgets, we want a plan to be made which, in addition, aims at inspecting the highest rate of fatal labour accident rate in the State, which is that of our country, which affects that there is a high percentage of precarious self-employment and that it investigates the false self-employed and even the special employment centres, which jeopardise the working conditions of a group of disabilities, which, by the way, has the lowest rate of activity in the whole state. Precautionary work. It confirms the last Foesa report, too, and several reports that we have been studying that having a job does not guarantee to get out of poverty, because there is 12.3% of work poverty. Traditional social mechanisms of social protection do not work. The risk does not work — we have explained — and we do not say so, to you, the European Commission itself: you have to have income supplement mechanisms for the people who work, too, and you do not have to develop five years late the supplements for the employment of Risga, five years later! That same report was warned that nearly 350,000 people in our country are found without a mattress and completely vulnerable to a new crisis. And they're not worth the pensions either. You see, the second lowest in the state. During the crisis they served as mattresses for many families. Pensions of misery, pensions that are not decent to keep in poverty to whom he has worked all his life. That's why we propose their guaranteed revaluation according to the IPC and the defense of the public pension system. A social model of crisis that complements privatization. And it's logical because when the state is retracted, when it's cut, it's to give a field to that greedy business. They're fielding this private business in the attention of the dependency, with 67% of the private squares of all the senior residences. We have already explained to them the failure of Feijóo in building the residences of the seven cities. The problem is not the Amancio Ortega prayer, the problem is that you lied. You lied when they announced the plan as well at home. They didn't have the funds to do it, to make public residences in a country that has most of them privatized and with pensions of poverty. By the way, the care sector would be a sector that would generate decent employment, which is what we propose in our resolutions, but which is an area where it is rooted in the precariousness, above all, of women, above all, in those private homes of the third age, with tremendous working conditions. And by the way, when you draw back the public care sector, it increases the burden on women. The data is demolition. We have approached them, but we have provided one more: there are about 90,000 women devoted to care for dependent people — at least 30 percent in full-time — but only 2,634 people discharged into social security as non-professional caregivers. Women are the ones who give up the full workday to care for minors or dependents, and this is one of the factors of the gender pay gap. And it's true that there are more women busy; Feijóo pointed out, but he didn't point out that they're in worse condition, that they've got 75% of the part-time contracts and that they're in the lower wage tranches. And yes, privatization in dependence, privatization in health care, privatization in education. Mr. Feijóo also said that in the country we are the autonomous community with a more inclusive education. All right, let me tell the parents and mothers of the María Marine schools, Castrelo do Val, at the IES de Betanzos, in Black, who have to beg the Board to hire caregivers to meet the educational needs because they are saturated. In the end, it also bothers them, above all, that we talk about privatization of health. The data is obvious. But just one detail: there is always a lack of transparency in concerts. Why don't you show, for example, the referral agreement of patients for the rehabilitation of acquired brain damage at Quirón Hospital, which the Federation of Brain Damage asks you to do? Because the other day he accused us of not bringing proposals. In 2017 we brought an En Marea that was unanimously approved: to do a study to see if in our country we had a public reference brain damage rehabilitation center for all of Galicia. They said yes, it would be in 2018. Where is that study? That is, by the way, to distort the role of this parliament and to miss institutional loyalty, that is. But, finally, this crisis is also about civilization. The real Galicia is that of the systemic crisis, which has as its bottom an exhaustion of natural resources, of its own biosphere, the consequence of a predatory productive model. That's why we propose to declare the country in climate emergency, and that's why we propose a time horizon to lead the world towards a productive model that does not depress the biosphere. Because this climate crisis — let us not forget — is caused by the very ones that accompany us in the social crisis, by those who privatize education, housing or health. Anyway, for those who trade in common goods like water or the wind itself. That's why we devote much of our resolutions to the bet on food sovereignty and the energy transition. That's why we propose a clear bet on R & D+i, with the aim of reaching two percent of GDP, because we are at the worst levels in the whole state, below one percent. We propose that this innovation strategy be specifically in renewable energy, energy efficiency, sustainability in general. We propose an alternative for Ferrolterra, with the development of the sea wind power cup, or bet on electric mobility in the Vigo area. A sustainable future of the hand of innovation, a fair energy transition, that leaves no one behind, that does not leave jobs behind. We have to change the model that condemns rural people to a green desert of energy and megamineries. The board has pulled forward with the abandonment of the farm, which I know — according to the councillor, Counsellor of the Rural Environment — is a competitive advantage of the abandonment of our farm. It'll be for hunting, because now, when we see the lack of control over fires or the loss of springs, we see what it means to have an orderly and worked field. They will then be able to vote on proposals for a resolution to support the joint neighbouring mountains, the Uxfors or sufficient staff for the agricultural and forestry research and training centres. They may also adopt proposals which bet on sustainable mobility. Finally, they can bet on a pact we offer them, a German social pact against climate change, an energy transition and an industrial model that generates decent jobs. Our country can be a leader in renewable energy, with a model — yes — that returns to local communities and does not destroy natural spaces and heritage. Because the real Galician, that of the deformed painting, is the one where at this very moment are destroying natural and heritage values of the Oribio mountain in the middle of the Natura River with an wind farm. That's the real Galician, the Galician plantations of uncontrolled eucalyptals. And what we want is a new forest plan that promotes the native forest and the noble woods. It is absolutely clear that we must act against the climate crisis already. Certainly, the psychological mechanisms of the human being of denial of what can happen are tremendous, and it is seen in the crises that exist throughout the history of humanity. But they're giving us a lesson today in youth. Today, youth is telling us that we are being criticized for lack of solidarity with the generations to come, that we are being reproved by the girls and the boys who must be broken...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u5	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u6	...with elites that only save themselves. That's why today we support these mobilizations of the global climate movement. In the face of fear, in the face of selfishness, in the face of uncertainty, cooperation to gain the future. Young people are teaching us a lesson. And I'm running out of time, but, of course, the worst of all these crises are women, who have a higher rate of poverty and exclusion, who are even more suffering the ecological crisis. There are regression trends that seek to curb those advances of feminism. But we're going to tell them they won't shut up. Furthermore, those who question those advances and those consensus of feminism are those who, for example, like Pablo Casado, dare to tell us what we take within women when we are pregnant. Do you know what we're taking when it's a desired pregnancy? So what any father and mother in this country, a desire for the future to be better, an uncertainty in the face of all these crises. So, in the face of self-centered policy, focused on personal interests, on the interests of friends — Nuñez Feijóo dit — what we propose is measures — and summer in our resolutions — to plan the future according to social agents. All of our resolutions go that way. There is in our country enough power for civil society, according to the Board, if it has the will to push it, it designs the future of the next ten years, a fair future, a sustainable future and a future...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u8	...better for all generations.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u9	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u10	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, too, to the people who are on the guest board. Today we are still the second part of the general policy debate, the debate of the nation's state, the last of this legislation. And we do so, in addition, after listening to a president of the Union, on the first day of the debate, absolutely out of the reality of this country, without any future project for Galicia; which came, in addition, to the main political debate of the year with proposals from the 1990s and confining everything, absolutely everything, even its own personal future, to the fats of Jacob. [[Applause]] Do you really believe that the demographic crisis, that job insecurity, that the industrial crisis, that asphyxiation of health, or that dependency waiting lists are resolved by entrusting themselves to the saint? Are you going to solve the problems of this country that on July 25th, which is Homeland Day, falls on Sunday? They reduce this country, ladies and gentlemen, to a brand, to a tourist destination, and this country deserves a lot more. [[Applause]] They've been in government for a decade, ten years, which they say, that they leave behind a Galician in a worse situation to face the challenges that we have ahead of us as a country and the uncertain political and economic scenario that opens around us. We have a deep demographic crisis — aggravated, in addition, during its government — that leaves us less population than there are a decade and fewer people working or able to do so. We have workers and workers who today bear worse wages, worse working conditions and less rights than they were ten years ago. Two labour reforms, the reform of collective bargaining or ten years of cutting, cost a lot. We have a diminished productive fabric and a deep industrial crisis in Alcoa, in the bridges, in Isowat, in Polygal, in R or in Ferroatlantica. We have suffocated public services, like health care, for a decade of cuts. There are people in this country waiting for more than a year for a diagnostic test, and a week to go to the head doctor. We have a self-government that was already insufficient at that time, but that in these ten years has become wet paper, because they haven't been able to defend it, or much less to expand it. But you have to recognize something, because it's the first thing to do, and Caesar is Caesar's: it was the first government in this country since 1981 that hasn't achieved a single transferred competition, and they've been there for ten years, not one! [[Applause]] Many chest blows with AP-9, but there follows: in the hands of the state, privatized, and Audasa entering 400,000 euros a day in peas, 400,000 euros a day! And in front of this panorama there are only two possible options: First, resign, that's what there is! To fall into self-comprehensiveness, everything goes superbly, there are those who are worse — this is theirs, right? — and to try to hide the social consequences of their evil government and the lack of political weight with high doses of propaganda. They have already pulled the nail from the 2020 campaign, an election year, buses glued and labeled and EUR 400,000. Nothing new, the same modus operandi as in 2016. The second option is to react and see that this Galician is not the only possible one, that Galicians and Greeks have the right to more, like any people in the world. We have a rich country, with enormous potential; a people worthy, adult, creative worker; a people able to take the incomes of their future and give the impetus that this country needs. But for that we have to lift the brake you represent. We must lift the cap that prevents this country from moving forward. Galicia needs to look at the future, face the challenges that we face with a clear, country project, with its own voice, a clear political agenda and, above all, no submission of any kind. To recover political weight and direction, with proposals that make us progress collectively, in a more just society, with rights, more territorially balanced, feminist, proud of what we are, of our language, which unites us as a people and connects us with more than two hundred million people around the world. Proposals for Galicia in 2019, for Galicia in the 21st century. Here we hear a lot about the next decade, 2031 as the horizon, and what they bring to this camera is the Quality Galicia of the year 1995 or the Jacobean of 1993. In this country, there are over 10,000 people waiting for a dependency aid. There are over one hundred and fifty thousand workers who don't reach the 900 euros a month. More than 4,000 people under 35 are waiting for public housing to be able to be emancipated and to start an autonomous life plan because they have rights. What about the People's Party and the President of Galicia? That, well, that youth will be able to live a holy year, and the same until the Pope comes. It would be to laugh if the story wasn't so sad. [[Applause]] This country is much more than a tourist destination to come to eat cheap seafood and how rich the empanada!; it's more than a postcard. And since the BNG we appeal to the Galicians and the Greeks they don't comply with, that they don't sign up, because they have, we have, right to more. In this sense, the motions for resolutions that we have tabled since the BNG in this debate on the state of the nation, in this general policy debate, are formulated. Much has been said during this debate of the demographic crisis. There's been a lot of talk, but to deal with it, we don't need failed Christmas policies, which is what you're proposing to us over and over again. The last great idea of the People's Party — we heard it at the first session of this debate — was to cover the children's parks for when it rains. That and forward the first time on Galician TV. Do you really believe that covering children's parks and starting the Galeg Newspaper earlier will make people have children? [[Applause]] Do you really want to talk about this? Do you really want to talk about this? Let's talk about the workday. We're talking about derogating labour reforms. We're talking about a plan to return emigrant youth, seriously, budgeted, with comprehensive policies. [[Applause]] We're talking about banning by law that companies that violate maternity and conciliation rights can receive public aid, as they did and you kept with Nelida Pisco and Buses Calo. We're talking about schooling in public education for children from 0 to 3 years, and ensuring this as a basic, public right, for all families and not only from the second child. [[Applause]] We must go, ladies and gentlemen, at the root of the problem, which is social and, above all, economic. They are the living conditions of the Galicians and the Greeks, the working opportunities we have, the access to the labour market, stability at work, the decent salary that comes at the end of the month, the access to quality public services, either in rural or in the city, the policies of co-responsibility and care. Here we hear a lot of talk about creating strong public services, which allow women to reconcile working life and working life, not having to give up the desire to be mothers — as was said before — in order to be able to continue working life. But we must also start talking about co-responsibility, the role of men in this society and the change of role that they will have to assume if we truly want to achieve a just, fair and truly democratic society. Working conditions that are intrinsically linked to the economic development of this country. Galicia needs to boost and modernize its economy; to do so, in addition, with a more sustainable productive model, which is able to cope with the crisis and the challenges that climate poses. And since BNG, in this sense, we have taken various measures: First, put the energy produced in this country to the service of its economic development. To guarantee a fair and competitive price of energy and electricity for families, for businesses and industries, as a basic asset that is. [[Applause]] And that's about reducing the fees we pay for transporting out the energy we produce here, which is what the Greek electricity tariff means. Develop a strategy aimed at closing productive cycles in the country, generating added value. I'm just going to give you two examples: Galicia produces 40% of the milk in the entire Spanish state, and we originally charged the price per litre below: 1.3 cents below the average state. Galicia produces half of the wood that is cut in the Spanish state, half of the wood. We are the ninth forest power at European level, but only 8% of this wood has a secondary transformation in our country, only 8%. We export, lords, raw materials and first transformation, but the added value, which actually generates jobs and generates wealth, goes straight out. We also propose to the House a Greek pact for science, to convert R & D+i into the driving force of the development of Galicia of the present and the future, but in a real way, with the necessary investment that must gradually be redirected to three percent of the gross domestic product, with comprehensive planning that consolidates the research career, that ends with the precariousness of researchers and researchers and that brings together all R & D+i programs and investments in a public institute of innovation, as there are today in other territories, such as Ikerbasque or ICREA, which are, in addition, European pointers. Look at me as a cap and a brake on the progress of this country that Galicia has placed in the queue of innovation for the last ten years, when it should be a strategic sector for the future of this country. And we're still investing below the level of investment that was in 2008. And they come here to say that Galicia is where state-wide investment grows the most, without disrespecting itself. Not even one percent of gross domestic product. [[Applause]] Worthy working conditions; work; rights, starting with access to public services — I said at the outset — regardless of whether people live in rural or city; quality public services, rescuing public health, not poverty, public health and public education. [[Applause]] A more just and democratic society. And democracy is not just voting every four years. Democracy is to have access to free media, to carry out the public service mission, to respond to what the legislation does, and not to be converted into propaganda terminals of the People's Party, to the glory of its president. [[Applause]] All the support from the BNG since this debate to the workers and workers of the CRTVG, who last seventy-one Friday, seventy-one Friday!, asking for something as basic as compliance with the law that you yourself have passed. [[Applause]] And democracy is also guaranteeing fundamental rights to all people, all of them, including half the population. A country like ours, which in ten years saw more than forty-five women being murdered, who had recorded eighteen complaints of violence against men and three daily sexual crimes, is not a democratic society, it is not. That's scary. [[Applause]] That's scary, and you don't have to invent it. We are full of hollow speeches, empty promises, empty promises — and today we're going to see a few corners — and we're going to see unmet agreements, we want resources and budgets — one out of every 100 euros seems to us the least; the least: one out of every 100 euros, and we're judging exclusively in all cities, because it's legally possible. But we have to fight it, and it has to be on the front page of any government's political agenda. [[Applause]] We will debate this issue. And it ends with a last question: if anything has been demonstrated over these years, it is that the limited self-government of Galicia has not been used to solve the structural problems that this country is experiencing. Far from moving forward, with the economic crisis we live a huge retreat, we lose our capacity for decision, and by its submission the Statute has remained in many of its aspects in wet paper. At the BNG we are convinced that Galicia deserves and can give much more of itself. But for that we need to have political tools, decision-making ability to intervene about reality and change it. And that means political sovereignty and financial sovereignty. [[Applause]] In the coming years, the financing model and the right to decide will focus much of the political debate, and Galicia cannot stand aside from that debate. At the BNG we are nationalists — that's not new — we defend the right of self-determination as an inherent right to any people in the world, as a democratic right, also to the people of Greece. That's our position. [[Applause]] The same way we advocate a financing system for this country based on a bilaterality relationship with the State. That's our position. But Greek nationalism is, among other things, deeply dialogueative and deeply democratic. That's our position. [[Applause]] And we want to know yours. And so what we propose is to open a sincere, honest dialogue, at the height of the times in this parliament, about the political status of this country and how to provide Galicia with the greatest political power and economic power to improve the living conditions of the people we live and work here. This isn't about me enjoying my flag more than yours, but having the tools needed to solve the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks. You can face the future and do it with hope, not with fear, not with uncertainty, nor with resignation. [[Applause]] These 40 motions for resolutions that we have tabled since the BNG call for this country, for all of us, for you too, not to conform, not to resign, because the Greeks and the Greeks not only have the right to more, is that we have the right to everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Parliamentary Group Joint Left Group, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u12	Good morning to all and to all. I wish I could wish Mr. Feijóo too, President, but also a member of this chamber, who has the ugly habit of spending very little here. So little -- it's been done -- that last year it's been ten times less time than on one single trip to Argentina. Adding this to his continued travels to Madrid, even to manifest himself in the arm of the far right, for, of course, it is difficult to match in this chamber. He's on other things. It's so much for other things that someone should tell you that the People's Party primarys ended long ago, and he just lost because he didn't show up. Please assume it and stop campaigning for the Galician Parliament. Our Parliament has come to discuss the real problems, not to promote private careers of leaders of the People's Party. [[Applause]] And the problems, ladies and gentlemen, despite the fantastic story we hear here on Wednesday, are numerous and deep. The problems that affect our land and our people have to do with the environment, they have to do with public services, with more children, with the public media serving the People's Party, with the lack of housing, with the lack of employment or with precariousness. However, none of this seems to bother the President of the Union, who decided to postpone the most important debate of the political year in Galicia to turn him into a sort of electoral campaign. We imagine he was confident that, in this way, the discussion of Galicia's real concerns had gone unnoticed. If that was his intention, we must tell him he failed. Like we did on Wednesday, we're here today to talk about what concerns the whole of Greek citizenship, not what concerns Mr. Núñez Feijóo. Today we will defend again that there is an alternative to the negligent policies of the People's Party. A social alternative crafted from below, from below to below, for a social majority that has been paying for too long the consequences of a crisis that has not caused. That's why we want to bring here the demands of the nurses in struggle, of the workers and workers in the public media — who follow with the "black Fridays" despite the President's ridicule for them in this chamber — of the environmental platforms, of youth on strike by the climate, of the defeated families, of the girls and boys who are in immigration, of the working class mobilized in defense of their jobs, of the feminist movement, unstoppable and indispensable to the continued barbarity of murders that seem to have no end. All of them, thanks for their commitment and courage, thank you for not being afraid of their bites, thank you for being, for continuing, for reminding us every day that we have to go out to defend bread and joy. [[Applause]] Our fundamental goal is to bring here the feeling and its demands. The demands of so many and so many people, deliberately forgotten in Mr. Feijóo's triumphal speech on Wednesday, as they are forgotten by the policies of the People's Party. Helping all those forgetfulness leads to our resolutions. Forty resolutions that speak of equality, freedom, inclusion, future, dignified lives and full rights for all and for all, from another country that may leave no one behind, of hope and of the future. And today, ladies and gentlemen, we're leaving a lot of people behind. The policies of the People's Party are leaving too many people behind. That's not what one can expect from a responsible government and committed to its people. That's why I think Wednesday in Mr. Feijó's words many things were missing, but, above all, a lack of honesty was lacking. You've missed the honesty you need to say that there are things you're failing, that there are people you're failing, and you need to give new answers. It's been lacking honesty to admit that we're failing women, that we're failing in the fight against macho violence. [[Applause]] To say fail, if this is a real catastrophe! Five murdered women in the year in this country! Maria José Aboi, Maria Carmen Vázquez and the last three murders in Valga: Alba Boquete, his sister Sandra and the mother of both, Maria Elena. Five macho killings in this country this year, and two of them won't even be considered as victims of gender-based violence, out of the slightest will — even from the Central Government — to implement a pact that they both sold from the Socialist Group and the People's Group. The macho violence that women suffer is multiple; it's the violence that they suffer every day in their homes, but also in their jobs, in the streets. A catastrophe that doesn't handle itself only with figurion and minutes of silence, bets themselves with feminism and the empowerment of women, but above all with resources. That's why we advocate the need to set aside one percent of the budget to fight against macho violence, one percent. Ladies and gentlemen, this resolution should not be a subject of debate in this chamber, because if this is not the result of the immediate and absolute consensus of all members of this chamber, I think we should stop thinking about what service we are offering to citizenship. Enough empty statements of content, as proposed in his resolution. We don't say it; the feminist movement is speaking very clearly every day that there is a macho murder, every 8th of March, where the streets are filled. The whole of Galician society is supporting an unstoppable movement to remember that this is a matter of all, and we are with them too. According to the feminist strike despite his boycott, although they dare to bring here a little paper saying that there are parties trying to benefit from the feminist struggle. No, ladies and gentlemen, no, the feminist struggle is of society. I asked Mr. Puy on Wednesday if the women of the People's Party were welcome to feminist demonstrations. Of course, yes, and I say more, Mr. Puy: you too, the men of the People's Party will also be welcome to feminist demonstrations. Because until we understand that this is a matter for all of us and we're not going to be able to solve it. [[Applause]] If you attend, you will hear that the cry is clear: "less speeches and more resources!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Words aren't enough, they don't fool anyone anymore. The bet must be quite clear: sufficient resources to cover the board reception network and the women's information centres network, which have all the personnel needed for comprehensive and quality care for all women, to avoid schedules of the overcrowded professionals. Sometimes it doesn't come with simple legal advice or a psychologist, more professional and various profiles, such as equality agents, work mentors and social workers, are needed for integral care. That, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately costs money. It's also lacking honesty to talk to people who don't have a job in this country, or certain expectations of having it. In the ten years of the Feijóo Government we lost fifty-four thousand jobs. It is a disastrous result, such a negative balance that disqualifies a ruler. Almost three laws where no job has been created, but it has been destroyed. He made it happen because he's the only president who's going to leave the government with less jobs than when he arrived. We therefore propose that a sufficiently budgeted employment strategy be developed to reduce the rate of timeliness in the private sector by up to 15 per cent in three years; reduce the unemployment rate to below 8 per cent, placing maximum monitoring on quality employment; carry out campaigns and inspections to combat recruitment into law fraud, abuses in temporary recruitment and abusive working days, as well as, of course, paying particular attention to the precarious situation that we continue to suffer from women, policies aimed at reducing the wage gap between men and women. In this line too, we propose an industrial reactivation plan, considering that nearly half of the job destroyed — 22,500 jobs to be exact — are industrial. It is urgent to draw up a diagnosis of the current situation of the Galician industry and a plan to increase the installed productive capacity; support measures for industrial production to reach by 20% of the GDP of the European Union by 2020; a strategy for direct investment capture; strategies for industrial diversification; improved productivity; increased R & D+i funds for industrial purposes; and support for the export of Greek industrial products. We do not resign ourselves to being a country of tourism and services. We're not going to give everything to the miracle of James James waiting for Feijóo, we're not resigning to see us close one industry and another. Therefore, this resolution speaks of the workers and workers of Alcohol, it speaks of the workers of Isowat, of Polygal, of Vulcano, of R, who are every day looking out there, defending their jobs; of so many distressed people who don't go out in the newspapers, who are every day distressed by the future and the viability of their jobs. [[Applause]] The predictable "no" of the People's Group is not one hundred and forty thousand unemployed in this country. It's one who's not meeting the demands of the mobilized working class, one who's not looking for solutions. But it is good enough, ladies and gentlemen, that workers and workers do not resign, that they will continue to defend what is theirs, their rights in the streets, that they will continue to fight until the two shameful labour reforms are overshadowed. Despite the bite of the law, even though they continue to tighten the penal code, they will follow. You could expect them to stand up for it. That's why we demand that the German Parliament commit itself to the defence of rights and freedoms, political and trade union freedoms, opposing that infamous Mordaza Law, the criminal persecution of workers and workers. If something became very clear in the last few days is that the hardening of the Criminal Code has not been carried out in any case to protect families, or to protect the majority of society suffering from precariousness, it has been carried out only to pursue the workers who have the courage to go out and claim bread, work and roof. Bread, work and ceiling! [[Applause]] At this very moment, there are Alcoa workers who are being prosecuted for demanding that their right to a decent and quality job be respected. We want them to know that we're next to them, that we've always been. As we are beside nurses in struggle, doctors and primary care doctors, with their demands, with the right to public health and quality. During the last decade public health was dismantled with the only objective that a few people could do business with our health. This is not something we say, it's a cry that is heard in emergencies, that is heard in CAPs, primary care centers and hospitals. That is why we call for a plan to improve primary care with the personnel, equipment and budget needed to carry out the essential work of health promotion and disease prevention. We call for Sergas to be provided with the necessary economic resources, for public employment offers to end the infamous abuse of temporary employment. Enough nurses with 500 contracts, enough! We demand that it end with private health concerts. Just do business with our health, market everything, health and education. We also claim here that Galicia bets again on public education. At this point we have 100 schools less than when Feijóo arrived in the government. Since he arrived all the courses begin and end exactly the same: with less teachers and less educational centers and less classes. It's not random that this happens, it's not bad luck. Mr. Feijóo came to the presidency of the Union with a clear plan to dismantle public education and give it to private centres, and he applied the plan, go if he applied it! So today we have an investment in education under the state average, although the Spanish State is already one of those who is in the queue of Europe. When Feijóo arrived at the government -- you see -- the investment in education was 4.62% of GDP, today that figure is a disgraceful 3.59%, which is only exceeded by Romania. That's why we plan to increase investment in education to 5% of GDP in 2022 and reach 7% in the near future. Urxe, of course, cut down on the stakes that call for the agreed schools for equality. From its origins private and concerted schools are used to segregate and select students by class, and today, unfortunately, also by sex; something we think would never happen again. These kinds of practices are unacceptable, they are incompatible with the fight against discrimination that women suffer, and we have to end them as soon as possible. That is why we propose to take sufficient measures to ensure that concerted centres can be integrated into the public network, as is being done elsewhere. From the Joint Left Group we want to put an end to the privatization model of the People's Party, to the privatization of health, education and social services, which leave behind the worst quality and precarious work for their workers. We have particularly gratifying and painful examples of what it has to do with the care that the biggest users of day centers or senior residences receive. Staff complaints about the conditions that are multi-folded, and unemployment and unemployment are increasing, because they are not done, ladies and gentlemen, they do not give attention to so many people. Ladies and gentlemen, we must take care of our elders with all the necessary resources. That's why we propose to empower the public network of day centers and residences with the increase of squares to remove waiting lists, increase the construction of new centers 100 percent public, increase staff frames, and restore privatized centers. We need public services to live better, to meet all rights to all people and, of course, also to fight poverty. On Wednesday Mr. Feijóo devoted more than half his time to talking about stability, the People's Party, elections and the Jacobean; but he lacked honesty to address the drama of having 23% of the population living in Galicia at risk of poverty and social exclusion, 621,400 people forgotten in his proposals. Forgotten, of course, homes that don't have a single person who earns income, which is 34,700, or homes where there's only one person who provides resources, which is 464,700. The data weighs on his government, but they're asking us all as a society. That is why we propose the development of a plan to combat poverty and inequality, especially in view of the situation of children, to solve the deficiencies of the population of Greece in a situation of social exclusion, and to increase the per capita expenditure to allow there to be a true system of inclusive, guaranteeing protection, which does not leave anyone behind. In this sense, we also defend the need to advance the path of a guaranteed minimum income, for which it is necessary to provide our tax system with greater progress. The recipe is very clear: they pay more than they have. We also propose a true commitment to the right to housing. It's a joke, you can't say you're doing something with a right when in a year only two requests are answered. Where are the good managers? How can it be assumed that something is being done if of the 300 thousand empty dwellings in Galicia were only able to activate two in a year? It is urgent to promote a public rental park and self-protection housing which in three years will be able to respond to the demand expressed by fourteen thousand applicants in the Register of Public Housing Applicants, which serves as a regulatory mechanism for the market, as well as to create an autonomous tax on large owners when the housing is not fulfilling its social function, which prevents the speculating with basic good, which also prevents youth from having to leave. Because, ladies and gentlemen, there is a great deal of honesty to acknowledge that the young people of Greece are failing, denying them the most basic: the right to have a future, to dodge our resources, to condemn them; to condemn us all and to live worse than our parents and mothers. They're failing the youth by driving them out of our country, denying them the right to work and live decently on our land. [[Applause]] It was lacking honesty to recognize the enormous lesson that Greta Thunberg and thousands of girls and boys around the globe are giving to the political leaders who brought us here, the honesty to recognize that the climate catastrophe is not being tackled as it should be. You're just talking about green growth because you're too afraid to be unpopular, you're just talking about following the same bad ideas that got us into this mess, though when the only sense you could do is put the emergency brake. So Greta Thunberg spoke at the summit about Poland's climate, and so they speak about thousands of girls and boys, who urge us to take concrete steps to achieve zero greenhouse gas emissions before we reach a point of non-return, and today, not to 2050 as the People's Party intends. In the face of this climate emergency situation, today, they will fill the street with thousands of girls and boys all over the world, giving an example of dignity in the line in which they have been doing it for hundreds of years by activists, who even risk their lives and even pay their lives, with the denunciation of an economic system that has made the robbed of uncontrolled growth and extractivism their only model of development. It is not enough to place a green bond today, nor to support the strike, to commit to the concrete demands clearly collected in the Greek Manifesto by the climate. And that's not what they're proposing to us from the Popular Group. Although nominally they no longer dare to deny climate change, they no longer speak of Rajoy's cousin, their resolutions show that they don't understand that this is not about patches, that we need a model change, that today's capitalist system is unsustainable, totally incompatible with our own lives. That's why we are calling for an ecological transition in industry, agriculture, energy and transport, that multinationals, which are taking enormous benefits from balancing our resources, are going to have to suffer. A transition that will only be possible if it's fair, if it doesn't leave anyone behind, because it's not -- we don't want to have to choose between the end of the planet or the end of the month, it's about choosing between innovation and/or austerity. The new production model requires changing austerity from innovation, research and development to reaching 2% of GDP, which you yourself committed and failed to meet; there will be no progress for this untalented country. But in the People's Party, they fear that all talent will return to the world, because they know that that will be their end as rulers; they know that the future is theirs, that they will return to make this a better country. [[Applause]] It's about choosing between modernity and the past, betting on a transport system that will vertebrate this country, driving a rail network of proximity that will allow cities like Lugo or Ferrol to finally enter the 21st century. Don't keep betting on the great works of the past.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u13	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u14	We remember perfectly well that in 2003 Feijóo, being advisor to Fraga, had already announced an AVE that would arrive in 2010. It's about choosing between generating wealth and channeling our resources. To systematically treat our ecosystems is not only an ecological waste, it's an economic waste, it's a disaster for the country that allows it; for the country that allows projects like the Touro mine.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u15	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u16	That's why we propose the repeal of the Act of Business Initiatives and the closure of the Touro mine project, because it's about choosing between the private benefit and the common good, to understand once and for all that you continue to call a crisis.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u17	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u18	...and there's no reason why AP-9 should remain in private hands.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u19	Thank you very much, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u20	I'm done. The message is clear: the consequences of this voracious economic model...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u21	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u22	...they're incompatible with life, there's no planet B. And, as Greta Thunberg said, we came here to find out...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u23	Thank you very much, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u24	...that the change is coming. They like it or not, real power belongs to people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Fernández Leiceaga has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u26	Good morning. The other day, on Wednesday, in the debate in this same Chamber, the president of the board complained that the opposition groups had been repeating for years that he had no project. And the truth is, it's true, I went over some intervention years ago and we actually said that. The problem is, today, ten years later, we found it to be true and even short. [[Applause]] And I have to say that the other day it sounded, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, his speech as the first act of a long electoral campaign that will have an appointment on November 10, but which will follow after the autonomic appointment in Galicia. And I think it's at the service of this long electoral campaign that your speech is used to, unfortunately. One speech that he does is to centrifuge responsibilities, as the President of the Union has always done. He's always someone else responsible, someone else. It could be the Zapatero Government at its own time; it could be, at last, Almunia; it could be the mayors of the cities, the presidents of the deputies, the social agents, a sector that opposes an aquaculture law, and so on. In the end, it is always the responsibility of the others, it is never in Galicia, in its competences, its own responsibility. A trigger for improvement and a painting that -- recognizing successes, because there are also -- also indicates where the difficulties are and where we should move our steps and change things from politics. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, said the other day, Mr. Gonzalo Caballero, managed over a hundred billion euros in these two years from Galicia. They should have served for a long time, and for a long time served; but there are many things that it is good to say that they are still to be solved or to be done. In this sense, I believe that his intervention was more of a sample than rhetoric is not only a form of communication, but also a form of concealment, a way of adding distance between Galicia that communicates and real Galicia. And for that, the voices that preceded me made a call to transform Galician Radio and Television Company, and I have to say that I can only share that desire. And that's why within our motions for resolutions is exactly a proposal that seeks to strengthen the role of the democratic control mechanisms of the Radio and Television Company. By the way, not any of them, but all of them committed to this chamber with the Popular Parliamentary Group a long time ago and not put into practice. So you have to choose between saying that you were wrong then or wrong now, because something must happen so that nine years later we still miss the Informative Board, the Staff Regulations and the lack of election by this camera of the director of the Galician Radio and Television Company. They have the opportunity to fix that failure and move on to a different stage in media control in Galicia. I think we have an obligation to offer alternatives, and not only to influence the diagnosis, but to tell where we want Galicia to go. And do it -- I say -- not in black and white, but in recognition of some things, but also indicating where the problems are. The demographic regression has concentrated much of the efforts of all those who intervened before me today and two days ago. Indeed, the President of the Union must begin to recognize that his policies for the promotion of birth, his policies for territorial balance and return are policies that have not had the right success. I'm not going to quote a lot of figures, but the fact is that it only increases the natural balance, the vegetative balance, the difference between births and deaths since Mr. Núñez Feijóo is President of the Board, because the deaths rise due to the aging of the population, but also because of the lower births. And we keep insisting that it's about retouching a little more or another measure of what's already in place to generate a headline that ends quickly, like those balloons that carry children when there's parties, that as soon as you stop staring at it disappear and nothing else is known of them, because that's what happens with many of these things that are announced from this rostrum. A failure, and we're very sorry. They have to change their conception of what to do to reverse the birth problem in Galicia. We must act in public services, we must act in conciliation, we must act in equality. Today we know that, contrary to what a conservative speech said some time ago, those women who work are the ones who have most children in the earlier countries of Europe, but also here in Galicia and also in Spain. You've changed this for years. And so feminism also contributes to reducing the demographic problem in Galicia. [[Applause]] But he called my attention to something else. He called me the attention that Mr. President of the Board ends up converting what's going on, what's going to happen, which doesn't depend on him at all, to his great success. The return of migrants to Galicia, presented as a great success of their demographic policy. And he himself said that from Venezuela and Argentina is the political, social and economic crisis in these countries that is favoring that return. And of course you have to attend to them! We have tabled a motion for a resolution, we have also agreed on an agreement, so that we can also meet the powers of the Council of Galicia, not only since the Central Government, but also the emigrants who return from Venezuela, who are leading the greatest arrival in Galicia. But Mr. Núñez Feijóo forgets that if we do a little bit longer analysis of migration flows, we have net outs for the rest of Spain and we have an important output from our boys and girls, especially those who are more qualified, who are looking for work where there is it and a job with a profile suitable for their formation. And this needs to be addressed, and we'll miss it. That's why we propose a return plan that is also addressed to this youth who is outside, not only to welcome those who are already coming for what is happening in those countries, because of the factors of expulsion, but also to act actively on those who are working outside and have an adequate level of qualification. And Mr. Núñez Feijóo talks nothing about it, because it's not for him, because it's not part of his story. We want to take this matter seriously. We know that this requires well-being, work and specific measures. For example, the freeness of textbooks means at this time that the course is starting a limited but important measure for many families, especially those with more children. We also know that freeness is solidarity, that freeness set in motion by the Government of Emilio Pérez Touriño was more economical than the one that is working now and covering everyone. Why don't we go back to systems that already work? Why is there such a lock to recognize that the Government of Emilio Pérez Touriño has made it right and, therefore, you have to look back and take advantage of what was right? Why not? [[Applause]] Mr. Núñez Feijóo explained to us his transformations of schooling for the period 0-3 years. It's good that they're getting closer to the positions we've been defending since progressive political forces for some time. The inequality in the results of the education system, according to existing studies, is very conditioned by what happens exactly at that initial stage. Okay, but we've established -- so we did in the suggestions that we transferred to the Observatory for Demographic Dynamics -- a universal subjective right for individuals and families in relation to access to public childhood schools. This is what happens from the age of six. No one thinks there's no place to study your son. And so it's a question that can be asked if there is any determination and sufficient resources. And Mr. Núñez Feijó told us: "No, but let's go from the second son to establish freeness." I'm not going to question that, though I'm not entirely sure it's what to do. But if there are few resources, we also introduce an income criterion apart from the number of children in the family. If there are few resources, let's make the selection have to do with the number of children, but also with the income of families. Families with an income of 50,000, 60,000, 70,000 probably don't need this. And families of a child who have only the minimum wage or who are millionaires probably have more need than bursts. And so that's where there's the difference between a more social approach that takes into account the economic resources of individuals and families and those that don't. I'm sorry to tell the Counsellor Mrs. — who left — that what most drew my attention to the speech of the President of the Board the other day on this subject is that she had made a rough table of that law of demographic impulse which she had introduced a short time ago as the most important thing she would ever do in Galicia. It doesn't exist anymore. That's the kind of policy we're used to. A rabbit is pulled out of the chisera, sold out of that rabbit, there's a headline, and then we move on to something else, and we have to get here and get a different rabbit. And this doesn't make much sense. To us of the law what we know, the preliminary draft, it seems very insufficient, extremely insufficient. In that sense, we agree: it's good to go back and start from scratch. Take into account the proposals we are making to you from the opposition groups, and you'll probably get much more right. And something similar is happening in terms of territorial balance. I'm not giving any data either. We all know that this works with a concentration process of the population, of the economy, and that it is necessary to go far beyond what is being done. There are some proposals that sound good to us, but we want realisation. And there are others that can be done by copying those models that are working in other countries. For example, in Scotland, where an independent professional agency works well for the collaboration of different administrations, which has a medium- and long-term plan, which could act in those areas of the territory that have the most difficulties. At the time, Mr. Nuñez Feijóo spoke of the Plan Impulse Lugo, the Plan Impulse Ourense, the Plan of the Coast of Death. However, we have heard ten years after the process of economic, demographic and social regression in these areas is more charged than ever. It is necessary to reflect on this and change those policies in order to make them work. State of well-being, it's also necessary for birth to recover. I have very little to add to what the other opposition spokesmen have said in this regard. I'm going to pass very quickly, but I'm worried about the matter of health. Mr. Núñez Feijóo repeatedly accuses us of denigrating public health. And it's not true, at all. We are extremely proud of the quality level of public health in Spain and Galicia. We consider it to be one of the biggest assets in our country, and it was built by my generation, by my previous generation, with much effort, possibly by impulse, above all, of social democratic governments, but conservative governments, with all the necessary nuances, also contributed to carrying forward. And also in Galicia. But you have to recognize with me that in the last decade this system has been subjected to enormous stress, especially primary care. A financial stress, 180 million less, and a staff stress, which has given rise to enormous precariousness among those working in public health, who are facing harsher conditions than other countries. I'm not repeating anything I don't say today, for example, the study published by the Faro de Vigo, with official data compared to other autonomous communities. I'm not saying anything that Vigo professionals don't say, that you know well, of primary care and that they're right that they're mobilized; nurses, that they don't say anything that's not published in studies recognized by the ministry and professional studies. I don't say anything else, and you should recognize it. They should recognize that there is excessive precariousness, they should recognize that they are not doing everything right, that they have not planned in time, that they have been publishing MIR squares under the accredited units that authorized the ministry these ten years. And I can give you the exact figures, Counselor. They'd have to recognize all this to start changing things. [[Applause]] And I say, do you have to modernize the system? Of course, but we can only modernize the system if we can clean up its basic foundations. And that basically depends on us taking care of the needs of our staff and making it possible to stabilize these personnel. And the other day, there were several allusions to residences, universities. We have no difficulty getting money from where it comes from, what we demand from our motions for resolutions is that the forecasts are met, the deadlines are met. We want the seven residences to be built in the cities. We're sure now that if there's money, the urban problems will disappear, not because they were created before, but because the problems created by the Union were to have a pretext and not build residences. Now that they're gone, we want to make sure they bid before the legislation is over, because that's the guarantee that you're late for fulfilling your promises. [[Applause]] Just like the private university. He's in the legislature, there are private universities in many places. It's okay. What's to guarantee is that this offer doesn't go against the public universities that already exist today, because that's a heritage that we also build all the Greeks. May it therefore be complementary to what is today and not harmful. That's it. Employment. It was about 54,000 jobs. And I'm not going to say that everything that happens in employment depends on the Union, or much less, depends on many different factors. And we're growing at an economic rate that's similar to Spanish. And until there's nothing to say; they're going relatively well because Spain has also been good for the last five or six years. It used to be very bad, and so did we. What is the anomaly in Galicia? That growing up the same as Spain we created much less jobs. I was now reviewing in the morning the Report of the Greek Economy 2018 of Abanca, which rightly says this with all the letters. So why don't we recognise that we have a difficulty here and we act on it, better mobilising employment funds, that there is a very low execution, making better use of specific policies on this issue and, above all, attracting investment? Some figures are given first, I'm not going to insist. But I like another, an interesting comparison. The gross operating surplus with the functional distribution of income, which has become a way of getting closer to savings, is now above what was in 2008. On the other hand, gross capital formation, investment, is well below. If at the time of Fraga, at the time of Touriño, this was between 60 and 70, it's now at 40. And where's this savings going? So sometimes to clean up the personal situation of families, households or businesses, but, above all, through the financial system, it ends up investing elsewhere. So we would like a specific policy to be invested here, because that's how we can create jobs, that we can create jobs while we're moving forward in terms of productivity. [[Applause]] The other day the spokesperson of the People's Party insisted on the issue of income per inhabitant, and I'll explain it later, that now I won't be given time, in the next intervention. We also heard Mr. Núñez Feijó the other day saying he was moderate. It looks good to me. But we also heard him say something else, which is that Vox in Galicia was inside the People's Party or something. Something like that, something like that. [[Murmurs.]] [[Protests.]] Well, and we heard the MP from the People's Party asking that the women feminists from the PP could go to the demonstrations. No, he said it literally. [[Murmurs.]] I also say: I would like it to be the men too, because we go, I go without problem, we go without any problem. [[Protests.]] But above all, it calls me attention that this means because it's not PP's feminist women; feminist as an adjective that strengthens, but PP's feminist women, saying that there are some who are not. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't know if you know what you have in the parliamentary group. If that's not the case, it's okay. [[Applause]] No, but we see... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u27	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u28	...because it's done. We see in the proposals...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u29	Quiet, please. Quiet. Silence! [[Mr. President bisba.]] [[Strengths and protests.]] Let him finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u30	Let me explain. We see in the motions for resolutions on this subject that the People's Party insists on putting the feminist organizations and the VOX on the same plane.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u31	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u32	Yes, and this seems absolutely unacceptable to us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u33	Silence! The spokesperson for the People's Parliamentary Group will then be clarified. [[Protests and murmurings continue.]] Quiet, please! Then it will be clarified. That's it. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u34	I'm going to finish. Just a minute to finish up. There's another subject, too, which I'm going to mention very briefly. In our motions for resolutions there are a number of requests from Galicia to the General Administration of the State, starting with the financing model, where we say the same thing as we said. We want the deliveries to be settled, we want the monthly EVI to be settled, we want Galicia to have the resources it needs, which it has in its budget. What's wrong? That we want it to be done in accordance with the legal framework and with all guarantees. There are those who lack this, and here they won't find us, they won't find us at all. We want this Parliament to have a unanimous demand for infrastructure, as it has already done. [[Strong murmurers.]] We also want Parliament's approval of the demands for self-government, which has been in place since 2005. We will hope that the People's Group will be able to support them, as it has supported them at the time. We want all this to happen, and we think it would be good to reach a great deal of agreement in Galicia on these issues, whatever the government that comes out of the polls on November 10. [[Applause]] Mr. Feijóo's project is headed to 2030. It seems to me that this is a way of not realizing what their years of government were in 2020, because first we have to go through 2020. But, indeed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u35	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u36	...I am almost sure that from 2020 a new decade will open, but it will be a decade with other values, a decade of change, a decade in which Mr. Feijóo's political project, exhausted today, will no longer have the presence that he has today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u37	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u38	Thank you, President. President, ladies and gentlemen. Too bad, Mr. Leicega. He had twenty minutes of intervention and did not speak of the 700 million euros that the Socialist Government owes to this community. [[Applause]] Look, in every public intervention we hear any representative of the Socialist Party always speak of VOX, in every public intervention of socialist leaders always speak of VOX. And we understand that, because this party has done a great service to the Socialist Party. You were the one who created it, you were the one who fed it, and you're the one who's still useful to get electoral bills. [[Strong murmurers.]] But I have some bad news to give them. And it's that the Greeks are moderate, the Greeks believe in stability, and the Greeks believe in the governments that rule from centrality and for the rest of the world. And that's why the Greeks didn't give a single concierge in Galicia to VOX, nor any member. And, said this, we came here talking about Galicia, in a debate about the state of autonomy that allowed us to know what the situation in Galicia is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u39	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u40	Look, there's a government here, there's a parliamentary majority here that supports it, there's a government that has more impulses and more gain from working for Galicia than ever. And possibly we have an opposition that is not an alternative, we have the less solid alternative than ever. The president presented this Wednesday throughout Galicia 90 impulse measures on fundamental issues to manage Galicia for the next twelve months and to plan Galicia for the next twelve years. You're not at it. There are economic, employment, housing, culture, taxation, combating climate change, demographic and conciliation measures. Because here is a government that governs, a government that studies Galician problems, and a government that thinks, a government that plans and works to solve them. A government that doesn't govern creates problems where there aren't, a government that doesn't govern uses government resources to carry out election campaign, a government that doesn't govern subjugates the interests of a territory to the interests of a party and a president. That's Pedro Sánchez's government. Look, in Galicia we have a government that governs and a parliamentary majority that supports it. We have put forward 40 motions for resolutions on key issues: economics, industry and employment, rural environment — of which some groups have not even spoken — the environment, the improvement of our public services, culture, tourism and also key issues in institutional development. On the way out of the economy, what do we ask? Let the Government of Spain pay Galicia the 700 million euros. Where are you going? Out of the way. Sure, totally sure. We propose the impetus of the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2021-2030. We propose in this legislation in rural areas a new package of measures of fiscal impulse to rural areas, both by Galicia and also by the Government of Spain — to see if that government is, whatever. And we ask you to provide the municipalities of rural Galicia with new and better services. We also called for progress in the fight against forest fires and the establishment of a system for managing gangway dejections. In the third block of measures we speak of the green Galicia, which you are interested in but of nod. We propose that the declaration of the state of climate emergency in Galicia be accompanied by the needs of employment and industry in Galicia, for which we call upon the Government of the State for an orderly, fair and transitional process of energy transition, which is not socialist imposition. We also call for the adoption of an energy efficiency plan 2020-2024, as well as the implementation, in collaboration with the municipalities and deputies, of an integral cycle of water. We are talking about AVE — if you don't want to talk about it — to ask the Government of Spain to meet the deadlines for it to be tested before the end of this year and in full operation in 2020, as well as the renewal of Galician rail freight connections. In industry and employment we are very clear, we call for specific measures to ensure the continuity of employment at the thermal power stations of the Bridges and Meirama. Where will the Socialist Party be? On the other side. We call for continued employment in the Alcoa factories in San Cibrao and Partner in Coruña, as well as in Megasa, Ferroatlantica and all the electro-intensive industries throughout Galicia. And that's what we're adding a new innovation strategy. We also have measures in the fisheries field, such as our concern about the growing presence of plastics and microplastics. We're talking about employment, promoting women's employability in the industrial sectors where they have less representation. We're talking about public services with proposals for education, health, social services, as well as tourism and the Jacobean — now laid down by the Galician Nationalist Block — as well as the defence of culture. And in the institutional field we have concrete measures, concrete proposals, which demand institutional loyalty from all governments to the Council of Galicia. And we also talk about historical memory and regional participation in European institutions and address the consequences of the Brexit. We also show our concern for the people who have returned and solidarity with the people of Venezuela and the Greeks who live there. We propose the round condemnation of all kinds of violence against women, and we also propose the condemnation of all kinds of terrorist violence. Look, the days of yesterday and today have left us several things clear: the PSOE has no proposals about the sea sector, that's the reality. We assume that for the new secretary, the people of the sea are missing. The Left to Joint Group has no rural proposals. Now that they're ergonists, or who knows what, they've forgotten about it. And the PSOE will vote against the local administration pact that the Union has agreed with the Fegamp — which, of course, has a socialist president —. And then there's the way to negotiate and understand the Socialist Party's negotiation. You have Mr. Sanchez's bad vices. They put forward compromise proposals and, instead of looking for a proposal that brings together positions, what they do is they propose a text of theirs that they have previously presented as a motion for a resolution. It will be a way of understanding negotiation and dialogue! Today we will reach 58 agreements in this House, and 24 will be transactions with opposition groups, 40%. I think we've demonstrated our dialogant, negotiator and our dealant. The truth is we have to celebrate Mr. Villares' new heel, now that he's not under the yoke of Podemos. We saw him as a negotiator, a dialogueist, with a different tone, with another heel; even trying to reach agreements on issues such as Venezuela or in matters such as terrorist violence. We must apply to him the parable of the prodigal son who returns to his father's house, who returns to constitutionalism. Therefore, congratulations to Mr. Villares. The fact is that it surprises the Joint Group to intervene in other matters. Today I've had less unemployment than ten years ago. Unemployment drops in Galicia much more than it falls in the Spanish ensemble. Today there is more social spending than when you ruled. And the truth is it's a sarcasm that The Tides of We can talk about public housing after what they did in the cities where they ruled and after what they did with the "piss." On social spending, look, we have the greatest social expenditure in history: eight out of every ten euros of the budget of the Galician Union are social expenditure. They say they're worried about the job, but what they do is they come here asking for the closure of companies -- I'm talking about the Mixto, Mr. Sánchez, I understand there's confusion but I'm referring to the Mixto. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The number of homes at risk of poverty has been reduced in Galicia since we ruled. About Risga they showed concern. Hey, it's just that we dedicate 64.4 million euros to Risga. It may seem little to him, but when he ruled the left, they spent 40 million euros less! And we dedicated to risk 40 million euros more than when you ruled. So... choices, zero! [[Applause]] In social inclusion — which, of course, concerned them — they look at, in 2009 in Galicia, EUR 34 million was devoted to social inclusion. That's pretty good, isn't it? Do you know how much we dedicate today? We dedicate 119, 85 million more. That is a commitment to a society that is fairer to all. You teach them to your mayors. Look, this was from when you were ruling: "Rajoy leaves almost all the social income and aid to women." Fuck feminism and fuck what happens to all of you! [[Murmurs.]] Look, about the BNG, the truth is, it's funny to hear the Galician Nationalist Block say that this government is exhausted, that it has no ideas. But if the BNG has brought to this debate the usual!"Control C", "control V". You've been copying the same proposals, not for years, but for decades: a new political status for Galicia—as long as it doesn't smell like naphthaline!—, the coupon, the Greek public bank, a derogation from labour reform..., man!... And now it's true that we're surprised by new proposals like this attack on tourism phobia and Xacobeo, as far as it looks like you're against. We regret this because tourism in Galicia accounts for 10% of Galician GDP and 11% of Galician employment. You're against tourism. We are in favour of tourism and we will continue to bet on tourism, using Xacobeo as the main tool. And you know why? [[Applause]] Because the employment linked to tourism grows by about 7% a year, that's the reality. The Greek electric fare. But how they come back with this story if you know it would be a real ruin to our community! And you're coming up with a lesson in crocheting with Bildu and the Republican Left of Catalonia. We do not accept any kind of lesson in this sense. Now the motto of the Galician Nationalist Block is to "make Galicia worth." Fuck! Is it possible to make use of Galicia is to compromise in the councils and in the MPs with the party that from the central government is torpedoing the German self-government? Is it worth it to make Galicia go hand in hand in elections with the heirs of Batasuna and those who tried to hit a state in Catalonia? Is that to make Galicia worth it? To make Galicia is to copy the model of social confrontation, of the flight of companies and of the institutional paralysis of Basque independence and of Catalan independence? We believe that for you it is Galicia. You guys talked about R+D+i, and I have to tell you what they're lying and using the data falsely. The latest INE data are from 2017, and Galicia was the second autonomous community in which investment in R+D+i increased, exceeding 570 million euros. The increase was 13.4%, which doubles the progress of the state average, which was 6%. So, what lessons are they going to teach us? Just like in health care. But what lessons do we have in health care if today we have the best health we've ever had in our history, a health of EUR 4 billion a year, a health that devotes budgets more than ever, a health in which they work more professional than ever, a health with more activity than ever, a health with the lowest numbers waiting for the historical series, where seven out of every ten citizens have new or renewed infrastructure in their area. So what are you talking about? That's right, they're talking about Galician TV. But what do you want, that we compare Galician Television in 2009 with Galician Television in 2019? Today, Galician Television is leading, with a 17% screen share, all the time slots of the day. That's the reality, the TVG has increased its audience by 22.5%, according to the general study of media made public in June this year. The autonomous channel is the largest view of all Spain, in front of ETB and in front of TV3. The CRTVG thus reaches the first position as the most visible channel in our community, followed by Antenna 3 and Spanish Television. It's true that, if we talk about manipulation in the public media, the Nationalist Block Galego knows what he's talking about, he knows what he's talking about, and there's recent history. Look, for us, CRTVG is an independent and professional public service—there you are to whom you question!— without any kind of interference on the part of the German Government. First of all, Junta doesn't make decisions on CRTVG. Secondly, and about manipulation, remember what you did and how they criticized each other. [[Murmurs.]] Some people were calling for you to manipulate the radio, and those on the radio said they were manipulating the TV. So... lessons, fairs! [[Applause]] About equality, we're not going to accept any kind of lesson. On our commitment to equality and our commitment to the fight against gender-based violence, we have an initiative, and we hope they will vote for it. We regret that, yes, not being able to reach, in this sensitive matter, an agreement with you. Because Mrs. Luca Chao -- and in this I have to give her reason -- said "less speeches and more resources" -- and she's right about that. [[Applause]] You know why? Because, look, when I was ruling the left in this country, the aid for conciliation in Galicia was 40 million euros. Now that we rule, it's 94 million euros. Actually, less speeches and more resources. Look, the budget for gender equality and violence when you rule was 13 million; now that we rule, it's 23 million. [[Applause]] Actually, less speeches and more resources. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] You say our project is exhausted. Look, these days Galicia's first newspaper did a survey on the possible continuity of Feijóo, and concluded that 75% of the people participating in this survey positively saw its continuity, only 25% did not see it in a positive way. I think you represent that 25%. So I think the opposition proves it's more minority than ever. Take good note of this. Look, one of the funniest criticisms is that of the exhausted project. You say it, that since 2009, in this House, they have presented themselves with the name of United Left, Anova, Alternative Left Glaga, then We can, then at Marea, then Galicia in Common and now the Joint Left Group. [[Murmurs.]] And some now want to call more Madrid. But do they really take Galicia seriously and take the concerns of the Greeks? [[Applause]] Mr. Leicega, it's true that you've been proposing the same thing for a long time, and the Greeks refusing the same thing in 2009, in 2012, in 2016 and I'm sure also in 2020. Look, do you believe, listening to you and listening to the rest of the opposition voices, that your speech matches these gentlemen who one day wish to come together with their hand to be alternative? Honestly or do you believe? I don't think so. Mr. Leicega, you know they're closer than the Galician People's Party defends them than the gentlemen who accompany them on the bench on the left. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Mr. Leicega, you are so worried about the demography that the high-ranking post of the government of Spain has been vacant for half a year. Look what they're worried about. Look, the PSOE has been perpetrating in these months of government in Madrid a long list of aggravatings to Galicia, a long list of outrages: the debt of 700 million euros, the slowdown of the naval sector, the refusal to approve the status of electrointensives, the desire to close Ence and all that would suppose to close Ence, the "dezesel" and the contraction of the automotive sector, the closure of thermals... and you on social networks use the hashtag "At the foot of the country." I think it's better, like hashtag, "The kicks with the country" That's what the Socialist Party with Galicia does: kicks with the country. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] But look, you know what I'm saying? The Socialist Party won't get out of here for free. He's not going to be free to provoke the fourth general election in four years. He's not going to get out of his dispensation with which Pedro Sánchez has treated Galicia for these fifteen months. The permanent attack on our industry and our jobs is not going to come free. You're not going to get rid of the ridicule of the government delegate in Galicia and the Ferraz delegate in Galicia for free. And it won't come out for free, finally, to betray the confidence that the Greeks gave him — not enough, but enough for you to be on those benches. Look, when someone's right, you have to give it to him. And for once, I have to give the reason to a socialist, a socialist, who has escaped a truth, probably without wanting — or no — you will know. Look: "Pillar Cancel recalls the Bipartite of the Union and ensures that there is no good for a bicephalo government." It says textually: "We lost the government of the Union, among other reasons, because citizenship perceived that there were two presidents, and that one acted behind the other." It's not too late to give your reasons, even if it took you ten years. [[Murmurs.]] That's the reality. Look, if it was bad a bipartite, how bad it would be a quadripartite, all that together. [[Applause]] It would be terrible. Look, you're meeting right now with a problem, because here's a Joint and there's a president with proposals for a Galicia that goes well, for a growing Galicia, a Galicia that creates jobs, a Galicia that lowers taxes and a Galicia that improves public services. Your proposal is to criticize everything, but with zero proposals. That's the reality. You don't like this speech because, in the end, what you would like is that Galicia was bad so you could get better. The truth is that this debate is a debate of contrasts, a reality and the opposite. It's a discussion of contrast funds. Our political stability — political and institutional as well — contrasts with socialist instability...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u41	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u42	...in which Pedro Sánchez wanted to sink our country in recent years, causing two electoral repetitions, a motion of censure and early elections before the legislation runs out. The strength of Together contrasts with the absolute lack of leadership, lack of project, and genuine fragmentation on the left. We regret that the left has not, not only each one of you, a project, but, adding the few things they propose, they are not able to form something that looked like a project. It's just that you don't have the ability to recognize that Galicia is doing well today, that Galicia is growing, that Galicia today creates jobs, that Galicia today is low taxes, that Galicia today has the best public services that it has ever had. You don't understand Galicia, you don't represent real Galicia, advancing Galicia, growing Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u43	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u44	"You use government resources to carry out electoral campaign" — Michael Angel Tellado Filgueira d'Dim. You'd refer to this, wouldn't you? He looked again in the mirror and he'd refer to this, wouldn't he? It's an ad telling the Greek women that, if they want to have children, they have all the help of the world. [[Mr Vázquez Verao shows a role from the panel of speakers.]] We've already seen, with their working situation, that we describe fundamentally in the first intervention, whether it's all the help of the world, or whether it's all the help of the world to be out of place in a child's school and not to complete the procedures for the conciliation bond. Finally, I also wanted to give two more answers to the Voice Lord of the People's Party: it is clear that the risk budget has increased, because the social exclusion needs have also increased. And yet Risga in 2018 did not reach 2% of the population at risk of poverty. We've just seen that report — a rare source of suspicion that the People's Party does not consider it — and there are 300,000 people who have no mattress to have a new crisis. I think it was Mr. Leicega who spoke of this triumphalist figure of raising per capita income, but they always forget that it has diminished the population. I suppose that would be the question you want to comment on. I'll say they have a project. Of course they have a project! They have the project we describe, the privatization project, the cuts in public services and the abandonment of the great social majority of this country. The measures we propose — I said in the first intervention — are a great pact with civil society, are that the Union calls upon this citizenry, this mobilized people, which is one of the most mobilized in the state. It has the greatest conflict of work, there is a great activity of environmental associations, railway associations, heritage defense, public health personnel. Let the Greek Government appeal to that civil society and design the strategy towards the next decade, it's very simple — very simple if there's will, of course. And we believe that not to do so, not to accept these proposals that we propose, structural ones, which go to the point of mapping, to make projects that are structured in plans and budgets — which is what the People's Party's proposals are missing — gives the measure that the Government is not sure of its strength, because it comes to the last year of legislation with unproven duties. They don't have residences, they don't have kindergartens in polygons — big failure of that measure — they don't have the law of demographic impulse here, in this Parliament, they don't have the recovery of employment, they don't have the energy transition, we're in an industrial crisis, we're in an agricultural crisis, we're in conflicts in health, we're in education and we're in the area of dependency care, and we're in an ecological crisis. The patch measures are not valid, they appeal to that civil society. And, Mr. Feijóo, you mentioned in your speech that Galicia was a family. We're not a family, we're a political community that has its own institutions that, despite its limited autonomy, can regulate its level of income. They don't have to say it's a family in which their limbs run the same fate or misfortune. No, they can regulate their income level, they can make policies that rescue the majority of society, instead of that in a decade -- there's a lot of confusion that goes down a bit, Mr. President -- instead of a decade reducing the percentage that wages occupy in GDP. [[Murmurs.]] That's the Feijóo decade. We make those proposals. We are not surprised by the PP's motions for resolutions that come in the same direction as every year. There are commitments without deadlines or will of budgetary enlargement, which the Union should have already set in motion. Every year, the same propaganda and autobomb: buses of care door to door when they are not able to commit themselves seriously to the reinforcement of Community social services; secondly, guidance at some educational centres, and they refuse to address the importance of social education in educational centres; now they commit themselves to a specific protocol of attention to older people, they refused on a proposal from En Marea in 2017 — the older people living alone —; rhetorical support for innovation — are below 1% in investment in R & D+i, with a fall of this during the Feijóo decade; there is a proposal for poverty of budgetary increase for primary care when they have half a country at war against the shortage of staff in the CAP and health centres — especially in rural and in the middle towns — and cities — now they talk about land banking, now yes, and raising the shepherd, when they have been abandoning these policies for a decade. Finally, these are propaganda measures to which we shall still vote in favour. Yes, yes, we are going to vote in favour of some, as, of course, claiming the millions of euros that the state owes us, of course. What we regret is that when you rule in the state, you don't have the same policy of exigencies. Our proposals have not been able to deal with, nor have they even committed to something so basic, such as meeting the extent of the Community's early care network — we are the autonomous community with less extension of this network in the territory — which would cost them little more than 10 million euros. In teaching we propose to leave the patches and bet on the universalization of teaching from 0 to 3 years. If, in addition, we have signed this whole House, we have signed the Children's Pact with Unicef and come this action reflected as something we have to aspire to. We want proper ratios in education, an increase in staff, a table for rural education, and to stop closing and dismantling of education in rural areas. They also announced this law to ensure quality in school nutrition. All right, but it would be better if you got the direct management of the school dining rooms and you got the supplies on local markets. Finally, about the language, he also appealed to the freedom to live and speak in whatever language you want, and that a study would come out that would improve the knowledge and speech data of the Greek. The study has just seen it and confirms the backwardness of the spoken language, especially in youth. We are living in our country a true foreignization of our own language, and it is that in this country, in this royal Galicia, for there are children who don't understand Greek, who ask their fellows who do understand it, when they hear a concert in Greek, who want to say a few words. That's happening and they refuse to see it. And it's just that the language has receded in childhood 14 points in a decade, from 2003 to 2013. From this study we just saw the data, and they don't improve, there's a stagnation. Almost 75% of children speak in Spanish, or more in Spanish than in German. And that's to rule against yourself, because, if you have your own institutions, among other things, it's because this country has a language. And you, when you talk about Jacob, appeal to the Holy Year to be one of Galicia's identity signs. Yes, of course, one of Galicia's identity signs. What language did people speak in, and what was the language of culture and international prestige when pilgrimages were in the Middle Ages in the greatest splendor? Maybe they don't know, but turning off the support of the Greek language of Xacobeo is an international ridicule. Let a Government be foreigning its own language in the country while saying that Xacobeo is its star measure is an international ridiculous. Anyway...! [[Applause]] On gender-based violence, of course, we will agree to a Greek pact against gender-based violence, of course we will participate, of course we will make proposals. As the whole opposition told them: with timetables, with budget, and with fewer statements. But do you know why we cannot support your motion for a resolution? Because they did not agree to remove, as already expressed here, the condemnation of the negationists of Machism and the alleged confrontations and attempts to partisan heritageize feminism on the same level. They're frivolating, they're frivolating to the same level as VOX and the supposed confrontations between women and others — as you said, Mr. Feijóo. No, in macho violence, we'll be there with a schedule, with budgets, with serious proposals, not with motions for resolutions that are partisans, of course not. In the climate emergency we are not going to support your resolution on climate emergency because they put the 2050 horizon and we propose the 2040 horizon, which is the endorsement by the scientific criteria of an entity that is also not very suspicious, like Greenpeace. We propose 2040, too, because the fact that the European Union was leading in 2040 towards the achievement of climate neutrality would be an element that would allow that to happen in 2050 worldwide. If we don't lead him, it's impossible. Venezuela and terrorism. We do not want to frivolize, always, we support the rights of the people of the Galician communities in countries like Venezuela. That's what we've always agreed on. We do not support, of course, the frivolousness of such matters as terrorism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u45	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u46	We're pacifists. And, therefore, lessons in international politics from those who supported Iraq's war, zero, zero! We are pacifists and we defend political means, peaceful means, for the achievement of political objectives. That's why we don't want to chill. We will, of course, support all the resolutions that go — and we also have — for a democratization of the Greek public, for the fulfilment of the law itself. Here, in our country, it is revolutionary to ask to comply with the laws — on this 71 black Fridays. We will support all those who dignify the democratic memory of the victims of 1936, of franchiseism, to the last shootings of franchiseism, of which today is the 44th anniversary. And we will support Galicia's participation in post-abrexit, of course. But we're appealing to you, like Junta, to appeal to that citizenship, to that mobilized citizenship, to that citizenship that questions them, and to make a real pact with all of us for the next ten years in front of that deformed painting of the Greek reality of Alberto Núñez Feijóo's black decade.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u47	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u48	Thank you, President. Look, it's all going so well, so well, Mr. Tellado, on Galician television, so well in the public media corporation of this country, that the workers and workers wear 71 Fridays, 71 Fridays!, mobilized — the first time in the history of the corporation for more than thirty years now — to tell you that they have no shame, that they have not been ashamed, that they have passed here a law that is now completely obscene and unacceptable. [[Applause]] He spoke earlier, recalling that agreement, that it is proven after all those years, eight years later, that the word of these people is worthless, it is worthless, and they still believe it. Mr. Tellado was talking about male violence. He was trying to teach us all lessons here, and he was giving us a knock on the chest, the same person who told us — and it must be remembered because I think that memory is good at refresher from time to time—, in the context of the feminist strike, of the international strike of March 8, "The strike of women is the most machistrous thing that can be done." That's the person who comes here to tell us and give us lessons on what is BNG's commitment to male violence and women's rights. [[Applause]] Don't come here to teach us anything at all, Mr. Tellado, at all! We're talking about the pact. The Greek pact against macho violence must be the softest, really, most fashionable thing in this legislation. BNG is the only political force in this Parliament that has tabled its proposals to start negotiations, the only political force. And we're waiting for that equality commission to be called, which... that... that Mrs. President of the Equality Commission said that that work plan would be finished in the first quarter of 2019. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Strong murmurers.]] The only political force that has put forward proposals was the Galego Nationalist Block, to start negotiating which will be the agreements, which will be the political agreements and advances that this country needs to follow the vanguard of the struggle against violence against masquerading. [[Applause]] What's the deal going to be? I said it in my first speech and I will repeat it again: we are tired, absolutely!, of unfulfilled promises, and covenants and agreements, like those that have arrived here in this House, which are used alone and exclusively to wash the face, uniquely and exclusively. Because then there is no budgetary commitment or progress in complying with the agreements reached. What you can't say is, on the one hand, that you have to work on the advance of co-education and then keep the centers that segregate the student by class. That is political cynicism, pure political cynicism! [[Applause]] It is absolutely unacceptable that public money should continue to be provided to finance centres that separate women from men in classes. That's pure political cynicism! Pure political cynicism, Mr President, pure political cynicism! Besides, they armoured up to 2023, up to 2023! [[Applause]] In addition, they reformed legislation with LOMCE to legalize them after a Supreme Court ruling declaring them against what the legislation had established so far. But of political cynicism we will be well served, eh!, quite served in the field of macho violence. Enough! Why don't you support the motion for a resolution by the Galego Nationalist Block, which calls for agreements to be condemned with the extreme right that denies that there is a masquerade terrorism? If it is so true that you stand up for precisely the opposite side of those negationist forces, why don't you support that motion for a resolution? [[Applause]] They're really cynics, they're cynics! But it is the same as that of violence, lastly in the 40th, in the People's Party's motion for resolution 40 on the condemnation of terrorism. Here, the same people who go to crochet with those who deny that there is a malevolent terrorism are trying to manipulate reality and try to make them believe that there is some kind of political violence in this country. What you're trying to do is not reach an agreement with the other political forces against terrorism. [[Murmurs.]] All the political forces represented here, all of them!, we all reject and historically condemn any form of violence. And we've always been together on that. [[Applause]] Why are they trying to separate us now? Because the goal is not to reach a pact or come to an agreement and condemn any form of violence. [[Strong murmurers.]] No, what there is is is an attempt to criminalize nationalism and independence. That's what you're trying to do. And then, there, they'll never have us. [[Strong murmurers.]] They'll have us... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u49	Quiet. Quiet, Mr. Paz, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u50	They'll always be in front of us. I know exactly who I am, I don't know you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't know you!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u51	Quiet, Mr. Paz; if not, I'll have to call you to order. Quiet, I don't want to call anyone's order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u52	Mr. Tellado said the Galician Nationalist Block was in the past. I think who's in the past and hasn't just heard from the last news is Mr. Tellado. He said I don't know that from support to governments, to the Socialist Party... the only one who's been wanting to be the Socialist Party's mule to form a government in the Spanish state was Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo, and the People's Party offering itself to that big koalition, that great coalition. [[Applause]] He asked for it 20 times! It's a shame they didn't listen to you, president. [[Applause]] I don't know, you'll have to... I don't know if we'll pay more attention to you than the president of your party, I don't know. [[Laughter]] [[Laughter]] We'll see. [[Strong murmurers.]] You'll have to do a digital poll, which seems to be the source of information and the meter that Mr. Tellado is now using to amaze you with a prosperous political promising future in this country. I hope -- I tell you frankly -- that you use some other meter that you don't investigate between the audience of the digital newspapers. [[Applause]] Now it's not even the CIS of Tezanos, it's now the digital surveys of the voice of Galicia. I hope you use some other source. [[Murmurs.]] And one last question. What they always try when there are no arguments is to shoot at everything, and obviously they try to ridicule and try to manipulate reality completely. And Mr. Tellado was talking about the Greek electric fare. Today, these days — I suppose you are read people, people who read the press every day — they would see that the Greeks and the Greeks are going to be the ones who pay the most expensive bill in the Spanish state. They don't care if asymmetry exists. [[Applause]] Why are you attacking a political force that puts proposals on the table to reduce the cost of energy and the price of light for families, businesses and industries in this country? They come here to attack those we defend down the price of light and they say absolutely nothing that the Greeks and the Greeks have to bear the most expensive bill in the Spanish state, and one of the most expensive bills in Europe, by their great ideas, by their great ideas. Because it affects all consumers and all consumers the canon imposed by the Government of Galician Union. We insist — and with this already finished, President — on the same idea as we said at the beginning: we have to face the challenges ahead, we have to do it decisively, we have to do it with a clear political agenda and, above all, with the conviction that in this country we can live better, that we cannot fall into resignation. But for that, there is a need for political proposals which are not the ones you put forward in your motions for resolutions. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u54	Welcome, Mr. Feijó. How lucky to see you around here! I have to tell you that we like to see you here a lot more than the "Colón Trio" crochet. It's lucky. [[Murmurs.]] You'll understand that I'm not going to spend a minute of time repeating anything to Mr. Tellado. You can't talk to those who don't want dialogue, you can't go up here to scream and you can't defiant the opposition. The dialog requires listening, the pact requires listening. And that's something I don't know about at the People's Party bench, but of course it's missing in the People's Party votership. On the table we see that there are two fundamental models: the one that nothing changes, which only defends the green of the dollar or the eucalyptus, or a model that speaks of progress and well-being for the majority of society. So they can understand our vows today, which, although we could discuss many nuances, are consistent in the fat trait with the opposition groups, and that's why we're going to support them, in clear opposition to the model which the People's Party intends to impose on them to remain all the same, because either they're mere declarations of intentions that do not compromise at all — and that we're already tired of — or they insist on repeating the old policies that brought us to this situation, old policies that are unable to solve the problems of Galicia today. We want pacts on serious commitments. So they support 1% of the budget for equality policies, that's where we're going to find ourselves, that's the social consensus. You're the ones who're missing. Social consensus is about reducing emissions now, you're all right! The consensus is, you're the ones who insist on being out of consensus. He said before: "no" to our proposals is not a "no" to our parliamentary group, it is a "no" to all the people who defend another possible country, more feminist, more greener. What we stand for in our motions for resolutions is a direct battle against the precariousness that they have extended in all areas of our lives, which makes, for example, that this is the country that most anti-antiolytics consumes throughout the state. And I want to quote this because Mr. Feijóo said the other day that he slept very well, as all the Greeks and the Greeks slept well; just like all those who need psychiatric care, who don't get enough, don't sleep so well. [[Applause]] You've been replicating the same policies, old policies that Mr. Tellado insisted on repeating today, although the results are clear: a lost decade as far as the generation of wealth is concerned. Because in the ten years of his government, Mr. Feijóo, the Greek economy was four in recession and two stagnant, something that had never happened in our recent history. The result is that the level of wealth that Galicia has today, measured through GDP, is practically the same as we had in 2008. Mr. Feijóo, you have the responsibility of Galicia growing below the average in which it was done by the state as a whole, 0.43% compared to 0.37% that grew by this country. And let's do it: this never happened, because in the 13 years of government of Fraga, the Greek economy had grown by 25%; in the four years of government of Touriño, already at the end, under the effects of this recession, the economy has grown by 15%; for in the Feijó decade, the economy has grown by only 4%. You have the worst result in the economic management of our country's recent history and come here without bringing a single novice proposal; they only come out of the developmental political drawer own from the 1960s and entrust the future of our economy to the Jacobean miracle. But, of course, you're doing well; who's not doing well is the thousands of people who have lost their jobs in this country. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we said before, today there are fewer people working in Galicia than when Feijó arrived at the government. Did you bring them any proposals today? Did you take a minute to talk about them? Did you bring any proposals to talk about industrial reactivation, the fight against precariousness or to reduce the pay gap? No, because they're not interested. And what they're going to do is not only bring proposals, but vote against opposition proposals, as they're going to vote against shielding fundamental rights, such as health and education, after a decade of hard cuts. [[Applause]] Honestly, this can no longer be understood as a lack of competition. You understand why you're against public services. You have always defended privatization and will not change now; the only thing they lack is the boldness to come up here and say so clearly. Mr. Feijóo, you said how Wednesday we had the best health in the world, but, look, that opinion is not shared by nurses, by doctors, by all the professionals who work in health day by day. It's a shame I'm here to say that when the nurses out there are in a fight, when the people in charge of the head of service resign, when primary professionals call the strike. You can't say that while applying the scissors tirelessly. You cut public spending between 2009 and 2017 in real terms by 22%. The figure is so tremendous that one can only explain with a clear objective: to apply the neoliberal policies of the People's Party, to reduce the size of the public sector for the benefit of businesses that do business with our rights. [[Applause]] Mr Feijóo, you cut €900 million between health and education, but these cuts were still harder on the two toughest sides of the crisis: in employment and housing. You cut 68% of the funds available for housing and cut 58% of the money for employment policy. I don't think it's necessary to laugh. In fact, the only amount of spending you made increased was that of the amortization of loans and financial institutions; that actually grew by 400%. In ten years Feijóo leaves us three times the debt that was found when he arrived in the Government. Stability for whom? How do you come here to talk about stability? Stability for the banks, who always have a secure business, for the People's Party to rescue them? I think people don't want to talk about this kind of stability. What needs are certainty, hopes and commitments with policies that will allow us to adapt to the challenges of the future, the economic, social and environmental challenges of the 21st century; assurances that they will not have to pay back the bill of corruption, that their fundamental rights will be protected at all times, think what they think, and to whom they love or vote those who vote; assurances that their governments will always be on the side of dignity, of defending human rights, of welcoming people who escape violence, of defending democratic historical memory. It has been said before: today, forty-four years of the last killings of franchiseism, forty-four years without memory, without justice and without reparation. Today, when ghosts of the past threaten to retake councils, strolling from their crochet around Columbus — Mr. Feijóo, because you went there to take pictures, he came back from New York to take pictures with the colon trio — he urgently remembers the debt we all owe to the people who lost their lives defending democracy, fighting against franchise. [[Applause]] That's why today would be a beautiful day to approve an integral plan of democratic historical memory and to resume a Welsh law of democratic historical memory. I am committed, of course, to the fact that we are not going to spare a euro to fight against the violence of the Machist, that we are going to put resources, not just words, that we are going to put all the administrations to work in the equal society that we need, in all sectors: in the world of work, in affective relationships, in schools, in schools where we form a future generation of free and equal people, in which children and children in Galicia learn and value our language. People want to be sure this country is a good country to live and have children. Mr. Feijóo told us on Wednesday that he was very concerned about this matter and that he was very committed to demographic measures -- so he called them "demographic measures," which are clearly conciliation measures for women with more than two children. That's right, it seems, his great proposal on demographics is that of all time: that women go home to bring forth children and take care of them. It's scandalous!, impropriety of the president of the Galician Union. [[Applause]] I have to tell you that your proposals in this matter have embarrassed us. How can this Parliament defend itself as a great proposal to combat the demographic crisis that will cover the children's parks? [[Murmurs.]] It's hard to value it. [[Murmurs.]] And then we see their resolutions and they bring help to families of more than three children...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u55	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u56	They're getting very nervous! I just don't know why they don't respect speaking time. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u57	Quiet, everybody. All quiet. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, everyone, please. We're finishing up. [[Murmurs.]] I understand we're tired, but calm, a little calm. And especially with regard to whoever is in the use of the word, on all sides; if not, we will suspend the full. [[Murmurs.]] I'm clear! [[Murmurs.]] It's just, if not, that's impossible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u58	There's a lot of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u59	No, you're not the first, Mrs. Prado, please, silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u60	There are many ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u61	Go ahead, Mrs Chao. [[Murmurs.]] Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u62	...that they want to talk. Now, excuse me, it's not your turn. I have to tell you that your proposals — that is — have concerned us; and now we read the resolutions and we are even more concerned about them, because their great resolution is for families of more than three children. But, gentlemen of the People's Party, do you know what country they live in? How many families do you know have three children today? We are going to be very clear on this: the great measure to fight against the demographic crisis is called ending the wage gap. The great measure to combat the demographic crisis is called equality. And the second major measure is called socialization of the care system: free public school squares from 0 to 3 years old, public squares for all the largest in day centers, coverage and public responsibility of the care system, which for centuries has condemned women to absolute invisibility. We demand all rights for all women. And about this you don't want to support our proposals. Commitment to quality employment, for those who are and for those who have to leave, commitment to industry and the shipbuilding sector. This is what our resolutions talk about, first of all, commitment to the common good, to the environment, to water, to the air, to culture and heritage. And for that, you have to put down your Rehabilitation Act, a real asset attack. I think a government can afford a lot of things -- we see it -- you can afford to come here and ignore Parliament over and over again; what you can't afford is to keep failing your people. Ladies and gentlemen, today we could leave here with a clear message: that we will continue to work tirelessly so that all the people who are out there feel that the Government is failing them will have answers. But you insist on saying no, you insist on applying the sovereignty of an absolute majority insensitive to the suffering that causes your policies. But this is not eternal, on the contrary, we have the conviction that it will take a year for the generation you have driven out from this country to rule it again, competent people, committed, without heavy private backpacks, without dark business, committed to equality, justice, beauty and life. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u64	Good day again. I also want to greet the guests who are with us on this very important occasion. I shall begin by clarifying a question, Mr Tellado — very quickly — to us: we believe that the main problem which has today an important sector within the Greek fisheries sector is the issue of Brexit, and here we have dedicated a motion for a resolution, which, of course, we have agreed with you, precisely the fisheries sector in the Brexit. But I'm going to say more: it's not only that we have agreed with you, but that of the thirty motions for resolutions that are dealt with, we've participated in more than two thirds of them; we're the group that most participates; so at least they recognize us this. [[Applause]] As far as the debate is concerned, I already know what to quote Vox because it can cause a problem, and I don't want to abuse that resource, which is ultimately a resource. But I have to say the following: when we question our commitment — let us say — to self-government, our autonomous commitment — as has been done since then — I have to tell you that, of course, those who are supporting their governments in a party that is declared to be against the Constitution and the Statute in that matter — say that it is against the decentralisation process that is in Spain — is the People's Party, which is ruling with them in Madrid. [[Applause]] If -- it's a hypothetical question, it won't happen -- if there was a government in Spain of the People's Party supported by Vox, are you sure that the reform of the self-financing model will go on the line that we say in Galicia and you too, that is, in a line of greater autonomy? Are you even sure that certain claims — which we share — regarding the reform of the model to ensure that deliveries to the account are guaranteed, so that other problems that are raised there, as is the case with our motion for a resolution, would be reflected in that government? Because that government was going to have a very marked anti-autonomist drift. [[Murmurs.]] And it has an effect now. I'm not talking about what's going on in El Ejido, in Almería, no, no, no, in this very Parliament. When we put up a self-government agenda before the previous elections, the Popular Group said no. And he said not because — as Mr Feijóo remembered the other day — Vox's votes in Galicia are in the People's Party; that's what he said. And then that's what happens, those are the political consequences of this pact that the People's Party has with the ultra-right, unique in Europe. [[Applause]] That is the problem of political decisions being taken. [[Applause]] Look, let's be serious. I kept talking very quickly about per capita income, and the other day Mr. Puy said it: per capita income is now higher than per capita income in 2009; indeed, he is right. I'm going to give you another data: in 2005, when this evil government of Mr. Touriño comes into practice, the per capita income in Galicia in relation to the Spanish average was 82% and peak, when he leaves the Government he's in 88%, okay?; now we're 90%... yes, 90% and a little; yes, yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But if you do -- as Mrs Vázquez Verao mentioned earlier -- yes, per capita income is numerator and denominator. If we take into account Galicia's demographic decline and think that Galicia simply has the number of children like in Spain, it turns out that that per capita income would not have increased, it would have stabilized. So we're turning what we all say is a problem, which is demographic regression, into success; we converge because we have fewer children, and that's the great success of Mr. Nuñez Feijóo. That's exactly the way it is. Don't argue with me because it won't be possible. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Don't argue with me because it's not true. [[Laughter]] But, said this, we are glad that the per capita income...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u65	Don't ask them, don't ask them, Mr. Fernández Leicega; if not, they'll answer for you. [[Murmurs.]] No, no, I mean, don't go too far for them; if not, it's a problem. If I'm very attentive to what he says, very attentive, but I'm saying don't consult them because, if not, it's a problem. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Go on. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u66	We are concerned about the problems that citizens have, and a serious problem has to do with the situation of the economy. And I say, we don't have a black and white vision and we know this is an extremely complex issue. What is the matter is that we are not going to support many of the People's Group's proposals, because we disagree with the wishes expressed there? No, no, no, no. Because we believe that in political terms, in addition to our wishes, we have to put the means, we have to set the deadlines, we have to put the conditions. If we can say: we are all in favour of universal happiness, which is basically the summary of the People's Party's proposals, and we would all agree. [[Murmurs.]] But in addition to that, we have to put on quite a few other things. That's why we're not going to support them. No, but there's a second question. [[Murmurs.]] Moreover, he says: and in case universal happiness is not achieved, complaints to the Government of Sánchez. That's what Mr. Nuñez Feijóo says. [[Applause]] In industrial matters, Counsellor, since 2009 until now the loss that has occurred in Spain of everything that is not employment in services, that there has been a considerable loss in Spain, of everything that is not employment in services, a third of that loss has occurred in Galicia, since 2009, not with Government Sánchez, since 2009. Something will have to see the Galician Union. But you say: the industrial crisis, the Government of Sánchez. We say, we have to work together among governments to deal with this and then not just talk about the companies, which Mr. Tellado says. We're also talking about Vulcano, we're talking about Poligal, we're talking about R, we're talking about all of them, not just what Mr. Tellado says, because you choose a few and say: this is from Government Sánchez. No, no, but let's talk about everything, and then we can understand. That's why we say we have to make a deal for a fair industrial transition, and in this industrial transition we have to talk about some things. We need to talk about a MOVE Plan that doesn't run, that had some execution deadlines, and we're still behind 2015. We have to talk about this. But, of course, we can say that we want a future for the Eume and the Ortegal, but we don't bid anything from the North Coast VAC. So, there's a problem. We're talking about infrastructure, we're talking about R & D+i. The figures given by Mr Tellado indicate that Galicia is one third below the Spanish average, which has fallen in these years, one third below. So we have a problem there and we have to discuss it. [[Laughter]] Impossible to argue with you. You said the other day something that is an absolute barbarity, like that the contribution to the Alumina-Aluminum GDP was 30% Lugo, which is an absolute barbarity, and repeated it again afterwards. With those figures you can't just discuss, Mr Feijóo, what are we going to do! [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] But... No, no, let's talk too much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u67	Then you talk. Quiet. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u68	We are talking about industrial soil and, above all, we have to fit this into an energy transition, which is not a problem of the Sánchez Government, it is a problem all over the world, of the European Union, which is a problem we all know we have to deal with. How do you do this? Well, actually, we have to make a transition, which means time, this transition has to be fair. I mean, those who are going to lose -- because there are people who are going to lose, as always happens in these processes -- you have to give them compensation and exits and you have to make a plan for where this is particularly virulent, especially serious, give them a future. But when we go to the Bridges, Counselor, what you tell us is that you promise them in private to make a plan for the trucks and then instead you don't see any of this. So we say, we have to compromise all governments, but all of us, and put those questions that one says and that one should be willing to do. It's just that you've had to prepare before, Mr Feijóo, because this somehow is a process that's been going on for quite a while and that doesn't only affect Spain. In Portugal, the two thermal power stations that exist will be shut down very soon. And it has to see this -- if, in Sines and I don't know what -- and it has to do with exactly the fact that there is a very marked European process. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's join him. And that means boosting wind energy, boosting renewable energies, decisively, not stopping them, as they have been stopped all this time, and giving an exit that, for example, in our motions for resolutions we say that with the sludges of debugger, with biomass, with this kind of agricultural waste, we have to look for, if possible, energy recovery linked to the bridge complex and look around for an exit. That's what we're saying. Now, you're not going to vote for these alternatives, because they're something else: they're in the political struggle against the Sánchez Government. I suppose you will be very happy because you have the support of 75% — Mr Tellado said — competing with Ceauşescu, a little below but there. No, no, but the most important thing -- and I'm finished, Mr President -- is that Galician citizenship spoke a few months ago and that 75% remained at 27%. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] If we joined Vox, you would win. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u69	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u70	Thank you, President. President of Galicia, Government of Galicia, Members. Mr. Leicega, I'm going to give you some bad news: Socialist Members applauded you today more than on Wednesday in Gonzalo Caballero. And that's no good for you. [[Murmurs.]] Look, I'm glad you say what he said: he's worried about all the companies, because we're worried about him too. But the potential partners that you like to rule where elections don't win, what you want is to shut down a lot of companies in Galicia. That's the reality. Look, Carmen Calvo said: feminism is not all. Well, it's wrong, Mrs. Carmen Calvo. Feminism is all and feminism is all, all. And that's what I meant. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, here we end the last debate in the state of autonomy of this legislation, a debate that has allowed us to radiograph the current situation of the Welsh politics. Galicia moves reasonably well from the hand of a solid political project, a moderate political project, a mature and focused political project, a project evaluated in the polls not once, but three: in 2009, in 2012 and 2016, and a project evaluated also in the evolution data of a progressive Galicia, a growing Galicia, a ruling and leading Galicia. It's true that we have challenges ahead that we have to face and that there's still a lot of work to do, but there's a government and a majority group that's willing to do it. And it is true that Spain's political instability poses a risk, a risk, and there we have the challenge to avoid this instability and to prevent it from becoming infected with the frivolity, extremism and personal vanity that characterizes Mr Sánchez's policy. It is true that the Government of Sánchez is a threat to Galicia, to our economy, to our employment, to our industry. It's true that the Government of Sánchez has not solved any problems in fifteen months; more, it has created many problems that did not exist before its arrival: problems in the automobile, in the public naval, problems in the electrointensive industry, now in the thermal power plants. Unfortunately, Mr. Caballero, of course we must choose many times in politics, of course we must choose between Galicia and the party. You had to choose and always chose the party, always turned your back on Galicia, always; that's your political history. We saw in this debate of the state of Autonomy a government with proposals, with illusion; a frustrated, divided, fragmented opposition, which continues to hit the same stone for the last ten years. We hear -- I think with tedious -- the old proposals of the four left-wings in Galicia, that live together in the same political space without being able to agree on anything at all; nothing new under the sun. The Greek rupture has shown that they continue to keep these wrong approaches, they continue to maintain, despite the fact that time has put each one in his place, that catastrophe they preach. I permanently contradicted reality, and in addition, reality proved that everything they said they were going to do, when they had the chance to do it, they didn't do it. You're so, so, so break-inists that you've decided to start with yourself and today we're here with two groups of Podemos Tides, Podemos Tides. They don't think we can learn that from the Joint Left Group, because it's very difficult; you'll always be the Tide of Podemos. German rupturism, nothing new under the sun. [[Murmurs.]] About nationalism. Mrs. Ana Pontón has shown that it is the most authoritative voice of a decimonic, complexed, mini-fundist, autarchic nationalism that defends hurtful proposals for Galicia, because it is what defends nationalism elsewhere. It doesn't matter what they failed, it doesn't matter if they're bad for Galicia; you defend it because you're the most nationalist. Very much they would like Mrs. Ana Pontón and her to create the CoRs in our community and confront the Greeks with each other, as did Catalan nationalism. Don't count on us. It's true that you're very critical of the People's Party, but they're very expensive and docile with the Socialist Party, who they rule with wherever they can. They are so, so nationalistic that you are subject to your partner, to the Socialist Party, and that's why they have no problem in ruling with them in the Deputies, in the Councils, and probably because of that, Mrs. Pontón, the Greeks believe, when there are general elections, that you are no longer a valid interlocutor to represent them and to defend Galicia's interests in the General Courts. Go on, 'cause the worse it gets to nationalism, the better it goes to Galicia. So thank you very much. Nothing new under the sun of Greek nationalism. And then there's the new Greek socialism by Mr. Gonzalo Caballero, Ferraz branchist. I know Mr. Knight doesn't like my Twitter account — I said the other day. I'm glad and I understand. But I also tell you that there's nothing left to read, there's nothing left to listen to. I have to tell you that it motivates me especially to know that you don't follow me, but you read me, which is certainly funny. [[Murmurs.]] I sincerely hope that this year that you remain here in this House, you become a follower on my Twitter account, because you have a lot of follower and nothing to influence. You have a vocation as a follower, because you practice this, follow-up, political follow-up, follow-up to Ferraz, worshipful follow-up to Sánchez, betraying Galicia; that's reality. [[Murmurs.]] But of course, you have to choose politics every day, Mr. Knight, every day, and you always do it wrong and you are always wrong because you believe that if you are obedient to Sánchez to yourself — you personally — you may be better off and you don't mind selling Galicia; you did it whenever you had to choose, always. Now you have to choose whether you're on the side of those we claim 700 million euros to Galicia or whether you're on the side of those who deny Galicia 700 million. I already know sadly what the answer is. And you know what's going on? That what the socialists didn't want to pay Galicia will pay in the polls. Look, Galicia needs no followers from Sánchez, Galicia demands leaders, a leader, that of Alberto Núñez Feijóo. And he's been suing for ten years and it's been a lot of people who tried it before you and probably you get the same result. You don't follow me, but I follow you, and I follow you closely because I'm from Ferrol and in Ferrol we know better than anyone that goes this greek servant socialism and submit to Madrid that you represent. They called it a reconversion of the naval sector and it was a dismantling of the naval sector and now they call it an ecological transition and what they want is to flatten Galician thermal power stations, and we're not going to allow it; that's the reality. [[Applause]] And as I do, you will allow me to take your own words to refer to your months by occupying the General Secretariat of the PSdEG-PSOE. That Pedro Sánchez denies us the 700 million euros to all the Greeks and to all the Greeks? Knight, chiton. Don't Pedro Sánchez solve the problem of electrointensives? [[Murmurs.]] Knight, chiton. That Pedro Sánchez wants to close the thermal power stations? Knight, chiton. That Pedro Sánchez wants to pay the debt of the port of Valencia and not that of the Coruña? Knight, chiton. That Pedro Sánchez wants to merge the automotive sector? The usual: Knight, chitoon. Does Pedro Sánchez delay a fundamental project for the Ferrol naval like the F-110 frigates? Knight, chiton. Does Pedro Sánchez cut Galicia 30% in the general budgets this year, which we fortunately stop? Knight, chiton. But, look, Knight, chitton, at best, because at worst, Knight applauds while Sánchez despises Galicia. That's his political history. Mr. Leicega, don't go too far, because I'm afraid your colleagues in Lugo and the Coruña, Mr. Valentín Formoso, will soon claim your return to the political scene to resolve the outcome that is being done in the Socialist Party by Mr. Gonzalo Caballero. Mr. Knight, as fellow bullies that you and I have been on an autonomous television, to which I keep you, by the way, very dear, allow me a hint: when I have to choose, always precede Galicia. Galicia first and the game later. We're no longer Tertullian, we're political actors, and the Greeks expect a lot of things from us. Mr. Knight, from secretary to secretary, from secretary to secretary, I think you are acting with political superiority which is not good for Galicia or even for yourself. [[Interruptions.]] A sovereignty that is inversely proportional to your political experience. I would recommend that you listen to the Greeks with humility and always defend Galician interests. [[Murmurs.]] The truth is, Mr. Leicega, you haven't left yet and we've missed you. Let's throw it out and throw it all over Galicia. "Imbeciles and dark ones don't understand us, no." , says Eduardo Pondal in one of the stanzas of the Italian Himno. I won't be calling any political rival an idiot, but what's clear is that neither the Government of Sánchez nor the Greek socialists understand Galicia. [[Applause]] They don't understand Galicia. Those who deny Galicia what it is from Galicia. They don't understand Galicia those who have the duty to represent it and defend it and don't. They don't understand Galicia because we want to be no more than anyone but no more than anyone. They don't understand Galicia's silent accomplices of all those attacks and scorns to Galicia, necessary collaborators of that betrayal. It doesn't contain with us to give the forgetfulness, the insolence and the rude encono. Only the ignorant, and ferocious and hard, imbeciles and dark don't understand us, no. We, ladies and gentlemen, are here working for Galicia, for Galicia for the next 12 months and also for Galicia for the next 12 years. Through that Galicia on the greenish backs, of greenery, belted and brave clan. Don't have any doubt, ladies and gentlemen, especially the socialists, the good and generous of our voices understand, and with pride they pay attention to our hoarseness. Don't betray Galicia, join us, because together, all of us, in the right direction, we will get Galicia to move forward, that Galicia sends, that Galicia grows and that Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u71	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u72	...lead, and thus, our vaguities, the ones of the Greek people, fulfilled will have ended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u73	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Thank you. We shall proceed to the vote. Excuse me a second I'm going to make a consultation first. [[Pause.]] Voting of motions for resolutions
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u74	We shall begin the vote. I pray you all a little attention, if it can be, maximum, because we have to make 63 votes, which will take us their time, and if everything goes coordinated, it will be better. Vote for the motions for resolutions adopted
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u75	We shall vote first on the proposals that have been negotiated. I'll refer to the number and the proposal for the transaction group. Voting of motion for resolution 56478, resulting from the transaction between the G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego and the G.P. Joint motion for a resolution No. 16 of the G.P. Mixed. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. Motion for a resolution 56479, as a result of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists and the G.P. Joint motion for a resolution No. 8 of the G.P. Mixed. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 74. The voting is positive. It was therefore adopted by 74 votes in favour of this motion for a resolution. Voting on motion for a resolution 56480, resulting from the G.P. of the Galician Socialists and the G.P. Joint motion for a resolution No. 37 of the G.P. Mixed. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. Voting of motion for resolution 56481, as a result of the G.P. transaction. of the Galician Socialists and the G.P. Joint motion for a resolution No. 33 of the G.P. Mixed. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 67; abstentions, 6. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Motion for a resolution 56482, as a result of the G.P. Joint Left Group and G.P. of the Galician Socialists on draft resolution No. 23 of the G.P. Joint Left Group. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. Motion for a resolution 56483, as a result of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists and the G.P. Joint Left Group on draft resolution No. 8 of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists. The voting was as follows: 27 votes in favour; 41 votes against; abstentions, 6. The result of the vote is negative. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. Voting of motion for resolution 56484, resulting from the G.P. transaction. of the Nationalist Block Galego and the G.P. Joint Left Group on draft resolution No. 7 of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; against, 54. The result of the vote is negative. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. Voting of motion for resolution 56485, resulting from the transaction between the G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego and the G.P. Joint Left Group on draft resolution No. 20 of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 40; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. Motion for a resolution 56486, as a result of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists and the G.P. Joint motion for a resolution No. 9 of the G.P. Mixed. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. Motion for a resolution 56488, as a result of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists and the G.P. People in Galicia on draft resolution No. 5 of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 54; votes in favour, 20. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Motion for a resolution 56489, as a result of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists and the G.P. People in Galicia on draft resolution No. 31 of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 74. The voting is positive. It was therefore adopted by 74 votes in favour of this motion for a resolution. Voting of motion for resolution 56490, resulting from the transaction between the G.P. Joint Left Group and G.P. of the Galician Socialists on draft resolution No. 35 of the G.P. Joint Left Group. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. Voting of motion for resolution 56491, as a result of the G.P. transaction. Joint Left Group and G.P. of the Galician Socialists on draft resolution No. 38 of the G.P. Joint Left Group. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. Motion for a resolution 56493, as a result of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, the G.P. Mixed and G.P. People in Galicia on draft resolution No. 29 of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists and the number 39 of the G.P. Mixed. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 74. The voting is positive. It was therefore adopted by 74 votes in favour of this motion for a resolution. Voting of motion for resolution 56494, resulting from the G.P. transaction. of the Nationalist Block Galego and the G.P. of the Galician Socialists on draft resolution No. 9 of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. Motion for a resolution 56499, as a result of the G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego and the G.P. People in Galicia on draft resolution No. 17 of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 64; votes against, 10. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Voting of motion for resolution 56500, resulting from the G.P. transaction. of the Nationalist Block Galego and the G.P. People in Galicia on draft resolution No. 25 of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 74. The voting is positive. It was therefore adopted by 74 votes in favour of this motion for a resolution. Voting of motion for resolution 56501, resulting from the G.P. transaction. of the Nationalist Block Galego and the G.P. People in Galicia on draft resolution No. 27 of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 73. The voting is positive. It was therefore adopted by 73 votes in favour of this motion for a resolution. Motion for a resolution 56502, as a result of the G.P. Joint Left Group and G.P. People in Galicia on draft resolution No. 4 of the G.P. Joint Left Group. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 55; abstentions, 19. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Motion for a resolution 56503, as a result of the G.P. Mixed and G.P. People in Galicia on draft resolution No. 31 of the G.P. Mixed. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 58; votes against, 10; abstentions, 6. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Voting of motion for resolution 56504, resulting from the G.P. transaction. Mixed and G.P. People in Galicia on draft resolution No. 23 of the G.P. Mixed. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 74 The voting is positive. It was therefore adopted by 74 votes to this motion for a resolution. Voting of motion for resolution 56505, resulting from the G.P. transaction. Mixed and G.P. People in Galicia on draft resolution No. 33 of the G.P. Mixed. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 58; votes against, 10; abstentions, 6. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Motion for a resolution 56506, as a result of the G.P. Mixed and G.P. People in Galicia on draft resolution No. 35 of the G.P. Mixed. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 64; abstentions, 10. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Motion for a resolution 56509, as a result of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists and the G.P. People in Galicia on draft resolution No. 13 of the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 60; votes against, 4; abstentions, 10. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Voting of motion for resolution 56510, resulting from the transaction between the G.P. of the Galician Socialists and the G.P. People in Galicia on draft resolution No. 11 of the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 64; votes against, 4; abstentions, 6. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Voting of motion for resolution 56511, resulting from the transaction between the G.P. of the Galician Socialists and the G.P. People in Galicia on draft resolution No. 32 of the G.P. People of Galicia. When the vote was taken, it gave the following result: votes in favour, 70; votes against, 4. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Motion for a resolution 56512, as a result of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists and the G.P. People in Galicia on draft resolution No. 23 of the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 64; votes against, 10. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u76	Excuse me? One moment, please, this is a subject that the Judiciary Services will tell me this question. What do you mean? 56511. What is the outcome of the vote?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u77	His vote was 74 in favor, then. Is that possible? It's not possible, says the lawyer. We listen to the lawyers, in other places the thing is more complicated. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't mean anything, but good. Next, next. No, let's go next. Motion for a resolution 56513, as a result of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists and the G.P. People in Galicia on draft resolution No. 31 of the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 58; votes against, 10; abstentions, 6. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Motion for a resolution 56514, as a result of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists and the G.P. People in Galicia on draft resolution No. 33 of the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 58; votes in favour, 16. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Motion for a resolution 56515, as a result of the G.P. Galician populace and G.P. Joint motion for a resolution No 38 of the G.P. Galician populace and number 28 of G.P. Mixed. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 58; abstentions, 16. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Voting of the motions for resolutions tabled by the G.P. Mixed
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u78	We now begin with the votes of the parliamentary groups in accordance with the request that we have been asked to vote separately on certain motions for resolutions. We started with the Joint Parliamentary Group. Motion for a resolution No 14 of the G.P. Mixed. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 54. The result of the vote is negative. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. Motion for a resolution No 24 of the G.P. Mixed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u79	Sorry, I've got 24. It is that a notice came at the last hour of the morning, where 30 will be voted later, in particular 26 and 30. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] This is what happens to me by the Judiciary. So, now, I'm just going to 24 and then, later on, we're going to vote -- specifically in number 5 -- 26 and 30 together. That's what happened to us. Motion for a resolution No 24 of the G.P. Mixed. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 61; abstentions, 13. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Motion for a resolution No 40 from the G.P. Mixed. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 14, against, 54; abstentions, 6. The result of the vote is negative. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. Vote for motions for resolutions Nos 25 and 32 of the G.P. Mixed. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 74. The voting is positive. These motions for resolutions are therefore adopted by 74 votes to 74. Vote for motions for resolutions Nos 26 and 30 of the G.P. Mixed. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These motions for resolutions are therefore rejected. Vote for motions for resolutions Nos 1, 3, 11 and 21 of the G.P. Mixed. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 41; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. These motions for resolutions are therefore rejected. Voting of G.P.'s motions for resolutions. Mixed except for those that have already been voted on. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These motions for resolutions are therefore rejected. Voting of the motions for resolutions tabled by the G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u80	We are now voting separately on the following proposals from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Voting of motions for resolutions Nos 5 and 12 of the G.P.D. of the Nationalist Block Galego. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 54. The result of the vote is negative. These motions for resolutions are therefore rejected. Vote for motions for resolutions Nos 6 and 29 of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 54. The result of the vote is negative. These motions for resolutions are therefore rejected. Vote for motions for resolutions Nos 1, 2, 4, 8, 10, 11, 16, 21, 24, 26, 30, 33, 34, 35 and 38 of G.P.D.'s Nationalist Block Galego. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 41; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. These motions for resolutions are therefore rejected. Voting of G.P.'s motions for resolutions. of the Galician Nationalist Block except those already voted. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These motions for resolutions are therefore rejected. Voting of the motions for resolutions tabled by the G.P. Joint Left Group
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u81	We are now voting separately on the following motions for resolutions by the Left Joint Parliamentary Group. Motion for a resolution No 5 from the G.P. Joint Left Group. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 74. The voting is positive. It was therefore adopted by 74 votes in favour of this motion for a resolution. Vote for motions for resolutions Nos 2 and 32 of the G.P. Joint Left Group. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 54. The result of the vote is negative. These motions for resolutions are therefore rejected. Motion for a resolution Nos 1, 3, 6, 7, 9, 14, 18, 22 and 26 G.P. Joint Left Group. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 21, against, 41; abstentions, 12. The result of the vote is negative. These motions for resolutions are therefore rejected. Voting of G.P.'s motions for resolutions. Joint Left Group except those already voted. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These motions for resolutions are therefore rejected. Voting of the motions for resolutions tabled by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u82	We are now voting separately on the following motions for resolutions by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. Vote for motions for resolutions Nos 3 and 37 of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists. The voting was as follows: voting in favour, 27; votes against, 47. The result of the vote is negative. These motions for resolutions are therefore rejected. Vote on motions for resolutions Nos 2, 10, 16 and 40 of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists. The voting was as follows: 27 votes in favour, 41 votes against, 6 abstentions. The voting is negative These motions for resolutions are therefore rejected. Voting of G.P.'s motions for resolutions. of the Galician Socialists except those already voted. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The voting is negative These motions for resolutions are therefore rejected. Voting of the motions for resolutions tabled by the G.P. Galician People
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u83	We are now voting separately on the following G.P. motions for resolutions. Popular. Motion for a resolution No. 1 of the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 51; abstentions, 23. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Motion for a resolution No 2 of the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 54; votes in favour, 20. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Motion for a resolution No 12 of the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 4; abstentions, 29. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Motion for a resolution No 16 of the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 51; votes against, 4; abstentions, 19. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Motion for a resolution No 10 from the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes in favour, 20; abstentions, 13. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Motion for a resolution No 28 from the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 26; abstentions, 6. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Motion for a resolution No 24 of the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 10; abstentions, 23. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Motion for a resolution No 20 from the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 45; votes against, 10; abstentions, 18. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Motion for a resolution No 26 from the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 45; votes against, 16; abstentions, 13. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Motion for a resolution No 39 from the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 33. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Motion for a resolution No 34 from the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 60; votes against, 4; abstentions, 10. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Motion for a resolution No 30 from the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 54; votes against, 14; abstentions, 16. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Motion for a resolution No 40 from the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 53; votes against, 10; abstentions, 10. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. Vote for motions for resolutions Nos 4 and 25 of the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 54; votes in favour, 20. The voting is positive. These motions for resolutions are therefore adopted. Vote for motions for resolutions Nos 21 and 29 of the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 45; votes against, 16; abstentions, 13. The voting is positive. These motions for resolutions are therefore adopted. Vote for motions for resolutions Nos 27 and 37 of the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 47; votes against, 14; abstentions, 13. The voting is positive. These motions for resolutions are therefore adopted. Motion for a resolution Nos 3, 6, 7, 8, 18 and 22 G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 14; abstentions, 19. The voting is positive. These motions for resolutions are therefore adopted. Voting of G.P.'s motions for resolutions. Galician people except those who have already been voted. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes in favour, 20; abstentions, 13. The voting is positive. These motions for resolutions are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-27-DSPG129.u84	This concludes here the plenary session of the debate on the state of Autonomy and its motions for resolutions. Thank you. [[Ends the session at 2:30 p.m.]] 21chess-rank
