ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u1	Let's start full. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. Open the doors, please, I forgot. He justified the in attendance of Paula Vázquez Verao. And we start with the order of the day. Point one, legislating text. Debate of the entire Galician Natural Heritage Bill
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u2	This bill has been tabled in full by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. For the presentation of the bill, the Environmental, Territorial and Living Councilwoman, Mrs. Ánggeles Vázquez Mejuto, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u3	Thank you, President. First of all, and personally, join me in pain for the death of our fellow Raúl. And then, ladies and gentlemen, today we bring to this House, thus responding to the Government's commitment to this legislation, the project of which will be Galicia's new natural heritage law. We are faced with an ambitious law, which aims to renew and adapt to current times and needs a text that has about eighteen years. As you know, in our community we have a wide range of natural spaces of enormous value, which constitute one of our main treasures. Currently, the network of protected spaces in Galicia is composed of a total of ninety-seven, of which fifty-nine are ZEC, 16 ZEPA, a national park, six natural parks, two protected landscapes, eight natural monuments and five wetlands, which must be added to ten natural spaces of local interest — to which we call ENIL — and two private spaces of natural interest — which are the EPINs — in addition to other protected areas of international scope, such as the six reserves of the biosphere; and tell them that we are already working on what will be the seventh reserve of the biosphere, which is the biosphere of the Sacred Ribeira; an Ospar convention zone, which is the national park; and also the first geopark of Galicia, which is called the geopark of the mountains of the Courel, which includes the municipalities of Quiroga, Folgoo do Courel and Ribas de Sil. They all have high incalculable value, both at the natural, environmental and landscape level and at biodiversity level, and -- why not say so? -- social and economic as well. From the Galician Union we work for the sustainable development of these spaces which, on the one hand, will ensure their maximum conservation and, on the other hand, their use and enjoyment on the part of all the Greeks and Greeks and those who want to visit us, as well as we work for what is the dynamization of the economy of the neighbouring geographic areas. So our objective with this law is to continue to carry out effective protection of the natural heritage of Galician people. The text that we bring to this House today was raised to the Council of the European Union and then made public information so that private groups and administrations could present their allegations. By the way, it was a text to which about a thousand claims were received; we estimated 637 of them, in total or in part, which is about 65%, which allowed the text drafted by the Environment Council to be enriched in this way, always seeking the greatest possible social consensus around this norm. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a law that responds to five essential objectives: to consolidate the prevalence of environmental protection on urban territorial management; to ensure the conservation, sustainable use, improvement and restoration of our natural heritage, as well as to the Greek biodiversity; to promote public information and mechanisms of collaboration, cooperation and participation by society, as well as to adapt and regulate Greek legislation also to state basic legislation; and to update and modernize the Greek legislation of 2001, by responding to the various problems and needs detected over this time, based on the accumulated experience of many years. Those are the big targets that pursue the new legal text and that I will try to expose very briefly. I will begin my exhibition in this House explaining the need for Galicia to have a new natural heritage law. Natural heritage is the best letter of presentation that Galicia has, and the Greeks and the Greeks; therefore, it is our obligation to support it, but it is also our obligation to protect it. And one of the fundamental goals that we've set since our council is the protection, conservation and placing in value of this rich natural heritage and all the ecosystems of Galicia. We want to preserve that heritage, that inheritance that left us those who were before us, and we want to leave it as a legacy to future generations in the best possible conditions. But we also want today's generations to enjoy Galician natural spaces with the highest quality and sustainability. So we've designed a new policy framework that introduces several novelties. In this way, on the one hand, it includes as an inspiring principle the improvement of scientific knowledge — fundamental —; to establish the duty of administrations and citizens to respect and preserve our rich natural heritage and its biodiversity; to strengthen the commitment that is being developed in Galicia by environmental education — fundamental, our children — to ensure public participation in the design and execution of our policies — and, for example, there are about a thousand allegations and 65% of those introduced in this text —; to establish mechanisms for collaboration with other administrations, private and private institutions, as well as owners or users of the territory itself; and to regulate the sectoral activities that are related to our natural heritage, promoting compatible tourism models, such as conservation and ecotourism, regulating that new lines of transport and electricity minimize the risks to the wildlife and also design codes of good practice for our farmers and winners. The future Natural Heritage Law makes an important commitment to the conservation and protection of our protected spaces, reinforcing the work that Union has been developing in recent years. Thus, in this new legal framework, micro-reservations are created, a new figure that seeks to preserve and protect spaces with a reduced surface (less than 20 hectares) containing rare threatened species or habitat. It looks at the minimum surface so space can be declared a natural park, with the objective of optimizing its management, and it sets new categories like the protected area of Natura 2000 Network, which includes the LIC, ZEC and ZEPA, which gives them greater protection for inclusion in the Greek network of protected spaces, and extends the ENIL area, so that they can understand spaces integrated into more than one municipality -- they know that up to now it could only be in a municipality, there are demands from several municipalities, and therefore we have to regulate it. Areas protected by international instruments, such as wetlands, parks or biosphere reserves, are incorporated. The declaration of a protected space, which will always lead to the approval of your planning instrument and that these planning instruments have an indefinite vigil, except for the management and use refactory plans, which will have a minimum vigil of ten years, and will also determine the obligation to design a Greek green infrastructure strategy, in which we have been working for months. In addition to strengthening the conservation of protected spaces, the new law also focuses its attention on protecting Galician biodiversity, a particularly rich biodiversity that today counts with one hundred and twenty-six vulnerable species and seventy-six endangered species. Thus, it regulates the conservation of biodiversity that lives in a wild state, addressing both species and their habitats. A set of prohibitions regarding actions to be carried out with wild animals is observed. In this way, it is forbidden to kill, harm, deliberately disturb and trouble these animals; their retention and live capture, as well as their destruction, damage or collection of their children, offspring and eggs; and also to possess, transport, trade or sell with live or dead copies or with remains of wild animals. In addition, the law establishes a special protection regime with the creation of a list of wild species in a special protection regime, including the Greek Catalogue of Endangered Species. Two categories are set for the catalogue: endangered species — as I said earlier — are seventy-six — and vulnerable — 100-six. And in the new legal text it is also determined that the catalogued species can benefit from the declaration of public utility and social interest of works that are necessary for their conservation and the conservation in situ is regulated, outside their habitat, focusing on the design of breeding programs and also propagation programs. In addition, the catalogue of habitats in danger of disappearance in Galicia has been created in accordance with the national catalogue. It must be said that at present we have declared no such habitat in Galicia. And finally, it created the German Inventory of Natural Heritage and Biodiversity. The new bill also tightens sanctions against attacks on our natural heritage, some sanctions that in cases of greater gravity multiply by seven. Thus, in the sanctioning regime, we introduced novelties such as the elimination of the category of less serious offence existing in the previous law, classifying sanctions as mild, serious or very serious, sanctions ranging from a hundred euros to two million euros — in the case of two million euros we are thinking, for example, in the fires in our natural parks — giving particular attention to the repair of the damage caused and the restoration of the altered situation and the return to its current state, also reducing by 20 per cent the amount of the sanction proposed when the alleged offender recognizes its responsibility. Finally, we are faced with a law that has as its priority objectives, on the one hand, the cross-sectional protection of the natural heritage of Galicia, its sustainable conservation and preservation for future generations and that comes to redouble the efforts made by the Government of Greece for the conservation of the environment, the natural heritage and the biodiversity of Galicia. In recent years, we have designed the first Plan to promote and place value on Galicia's natural heritage, which has an budget of four million euros and which defines the seventeen imam spaces in our community. We have launched the first Galician network of national parks, a pioneering measure that aims to take advantage of the synergies of these spaces, and equip them with appropriate management tools. Specifically, in December 2018, we approved the Plan Rector for Use and Management of the Galician National Park Atlantic Islands and have already put on the table the PRUSS of four of its natural parks: the Winterfell, the Lastra Engineering greenhouse, the Corrubedo Danube complex and Mount Aloia, which were all subject to public information. We also approved the Network Natura 2000 Plan in 2014, a document that plans the protection of 400,000 hectares in Galicia and which covers entirely or partially two hundred and fifteen municipalities. We have created the Galician Biosphere Reserve Network, which guarantees cooperation between the six biosphere reserves existing in our community and enables them to interact and act collaboratively, and we approve the Act of Protection and Welfare of Pets, to fight against animal abuse and abandonment. And now we take one more step. This law came into force in 2018 and is already proving its effectiveness. Our aspiration is that the new Natural Heritage Act is a consensus project, a country project and a guarantee project for the future. And that's why, in our wish, we're looking for the highest consensus in this House, because I'm convinced that we all want to achieve the greatest consensus in a law that is aimed at achieving cross-sectional protection, that is, of each and every one of us and every one of our spaces, as well as of all of Galicia. Modernize and update the current legislation, being, on the one hand, simple, but having greater legal certainty and being able to see as our own, and consolidate the preservation of heritage and biodiversity as a priority. All the Greeks know of the natural wealth of our land, of the natural wealth of our landscapes, of the new beaches, of the rivers and rivers, and of our species and of our animals. We know that all of this, along with our culture, is what defines us as Greeks and Greeks. Protecting, preserving and valuing this wealth is a challenge that we must overcome, and that is the objective of the law that we are going to debate today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u4	Thank you, Counselor. The defence of the amendment to the entire position on the bill. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u5	Well, I don't know if when it's just one you can call it exactly round. Well, first of all, I wanted to make a reminder to my colleague Raúl Fernández, I think it's fair. You can't be a good politician to me without being a good person, and Raul was a good politician because he was also a good person. Of the comrades I've had here these seven years were of the people I've best connected with, those who share many hours of commission, and of what I admired his calm and firmness in defending his ideals, which he's been defending for so many years. Therefore, a lot of encouragement to his family, who has suffered so much in recent years, and gripped his comrades and fellow socialists. [[Applause]] Well, changing from third, Counselor, Words, Words, Words. It's one thing to preach and another to give wheat. Perhaps the People's Party believes that the basis for approving legislative texts can cover not only the evil environmental policy of the Government Feijóo but the fact that this matter, environmental conservation, is neither found nor found among the priorities of the People's Party. His vision is that environmental conservation is incompatible with his predator economic model, and it's true: his model is incompatible with environmental conservation. In this sense, the balance of his years of government in the last stage Feijóo is unappealable. The balance of this legislation is despondent, and there are examples. They intend to pass a natural heritage law that replaces Law 9/2001, which preserves Galicia's nature. In the 18 years that have passed since his approval, the natural heritage of Greece has suffered continuous and systematic deterioration. Law 9/2001 has not been implemented in its entirety, and it has never counted on the corresponding regulatory standard that it has developed. Because one thing is to approve laws and another is to have the will and resources to implement those laws. It is of no use to a law that remains in the role of Law 9/2001, for example, which had as basic instruments for the conservation of biodiversity the catalogue of endangered species, approved by decree in 2007, in that nefartus bipartite — I don't know if I have to clarify that this is with retreat — and within that catalogue it included the corresponding recovery and conservation plans for threatened species or in danger of extinction. Well, of the 200 plans that should be approved, 18 years later, more than 12 years after the approval of the catalogue, there are only three, three, 200, two recovery plans of 74 species in danger of extinction and one conservation plan, a demonstration of the enormous zeal you are working with for environmental conservation -- that's also scrape. Another example is budget reduction in environmental policies since you govern. Another is the unfulfilled promises and the lack of implementation of the instruments necessary for the conservation of our natural heritage. For example, the promise of the landscape guidelines. December 2016: Mr. Feijóo, after a Board of Trustees, announced the start of the environmental processing of the landscape guidelines, and promised that they would be approved in 2017. It's June 25, 2019, and we still don't have the approved landscape guidelines. I myself, in July 2018, asked the previous advisor and answered that they would be approved in September 2018. Here are some of the news where Mr Feijóo announced the 2017 approval of the landscape guidelines, and he said that the landscape guidelines are a legal obligation, as is shown in the Landscape Protection Act adopted in 2008 — also that bad bipartisan — and from 2008 to today the landscape guidelines are not approved. He said it was a collective obligation of society. Man, yes, a collective obligation of society but above all it is an obligation of the People's Government and most of the People's Party! Shortly thereafter, the former advisor tried to amend the plan to Mr. Feijóo, and said they preferred quality in the landscape guidelines rather than speed. Man, of course we want quality landscape guidelines, but I don't know how many years have to go by for quality landscape guidelines to be adopted! And here I don't know which advisor I have to ask you, whether the old one or the current one. Because perhaps, when the landscape guidelines are adopted, there are no more landscapes to preserve, because it's really no coincidence that these landscape guidelines are not approved. No, your priority, rather than the guidelines, is to consolidate the wind farms that have to be in operation before 2020, and so don't ruin that big business that you're holding them up to the Voitre funds, banks, builders or electrics at the expense of our resources, with their conviviality. That's the real reason you don't want to approve. The same reason why you don't want to present a proposal for enlargement of the Natura Network, which you also promised, another unmet promise, even approving a non-Legal proposal of the People's Party to accommodate such enlargement two years ago. Your promises, I don't think they're worth much. Meanwhile, wind is installed in areas that could be part of the expansion of the Natura Network. Of course, once they're installed, they'll be forever consolidated in places where wind should not be installed, and this is a real fraud to the general interest. Two examples of how a Government should act according to the general interest acts according to the interests of a few. Galicia is the State community with less protected territory: 13% of the area compared to 28% of the state average. Despite the wealth and variety of habitats it houses, it is failing to comply with the European Union's obligation to expand the Natura network in Galicia. Another example is also the strategy to fight climate change, will it also end legislation and we will go on without a strategy to fight climate change? We'll see. It's so big the fiasco of its environmental policy, the gross non-compliance with its own promises, that they intend to approve this legislative text to try to cover the fiasco. Yesterday, Mr. Feijóo was doing his fourth advertising and propaganda exercise, and he said, "Let's do a green Galicia." He just failed to say again. Yes, to comply with the law, that's already another coast flour, as we've seen with conservation and recovery plans. You can also see the lead in this text, because it is a bad law that shows serious deficiencies. There are questions that surprise us very much. For example, what is the reason why a limitation of 10,000 hectares is introduced so that a space is declared a natural park? Or 2,500 acres on the islands? We don't know what arguments this measure can support. If we know that in state legislation and other autonomics developed there is no such limitation. If this measure were in force, in the last few years in Galicia we would only have a natural park, that of Lower Limitia and Serra do Jurés, which is the only one that meets this condition. The Eume Strawberries have 9,125 hectares, they wouldn't be a natural park. It is, in fact, an absurd limitation... or not, perhaps not absurd, because the objective that it pursues is that no more natural park is declared, because the high population dispersion and the biogeographical characteristics of our country that they would induce is to create many protected spaces of modest dimensions, the difference between other countries and autonomous communities that can create few and very large. So another feature of this law is that it doesn't meet our own specificities, and does an imitation exercise in other areas that have nothing to do with our country. Thus, there is no German catalogue of invasive exotic species, and the management of these species remains at the expense of what the State and the European Union determines. It is thus lost the Galician perspective and the necessary early actions will be left behind, with the objective of prevention, which are fundamental in this fight against invasive exotic species. Perhaps, waiting for the recognition of an external catalogue to be used in Greek, we've lost a valuable time for the fight against these species. Nor does it deal with certain serious environmental problems that this country has and which, surprisingly, do not appear in this law, despite the exposure of reasons to announce a transversality that is not seen in the articulate. For example, we are talking about developing codes of good agricultural practices, but there is no interpellation to make code of good forest practices, when the eucalyptization of our uncontrolled country is one of the environmental problems that most affect biodiversity. So one of the characteristics is the null cross-section of this law. Then we open a worrying path to deprotection with selective subordination to the urban instruments proposed in the law. The planning and management tools of a protected space prevail over any other sectoral and urban planning, except that this introduces this legal text when they match compelling reasons of first-order public interest, a question which will be agreed upon by the Board of Trustees, something which seems too inconcrete and vague and which can give rise to discretion in decisions and to deprotection. It is also intended that natural resource management plans cannot establish determinations in urban soil, and in a country where urbanism is as it is and where general plans are as they are, this can lead to the deprotection of spaces with conservation interest. Another horrifying absence of this legal text is rivers and rivers, which house much of this country's natural and landscaped heritage and which receive no specific attention to stop its deterioration and advance its recovery. There's nothing specific about our rivers, and wetlands remain forgotten. The counselor said it was a participated elaboration. They are not of the same opinion as the country's environmental and ecological associations, which report that most of their allegations have been discarded. Nor is it convenient for the custody of the territory, on which, in the next intervention, I shall extend more. It therefore does not facilitate the participation of society in the conservation of nature. It forgets the participating bodies, since the law avoids granting any active role to the Welsh Observatory of Biodiversity, which cannot be cited or cited. Let's remember that this body was also created by a decree in 2007. We believe that the new law incorrectly understands the concept of micro-reservation, because it understands it as a protected space, something like a parallelism with reserves, and when it was not created with that foundation, since it was created about a concept of space management for rapid administrative action to preserve small spaces that deserve conservation and may be in danger of delaying what administrative procedures are for other types of figures like a natural park. In the current law there are already legal figures that allow us to declare as protected spaces habitats of limited extent and we believe that the micro-reservation figure is misunderstood. It also limits how long that space can be kept. In short, the new law does not come close to great things and only is based on some updates motivated by European state regulations; it establishes previously non-existent limitations, such as the minimum area of parks, and in many cases it is alien to the Greek reality itself; it introduces wrong concepts, such as micro-reservations; and it does not address the main environmental problems, such as climate change, the need to recover natural spaces, where the main cause of biodiversity loss is the destruction of habitats, nor does it stop the progress of invasive species — the second cause of loss of biodiversity — nor does it consider the need to preserve ecosystem services, which do not appear anywhere. We believe they use the laws as part of the propaganda apparatus, but then they don't even comply with what you approve of. They did not comply with or implement Law 9/2001, of nature conservation, they systematically failed to do so. And to implement laws, besides will, budgets are needed, and the memory accompanying this legal text says, textually, that the adoption of this law will not entail any increase in future budgets. We think this already says a lot about what you want for the future. You see these policies as an obstacle...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u6	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u7	...in his political work and in his economic model. That's why we call for the return of this bill and for another one back to this House, attended by a lot of people who fight every day for the defense of the natural values of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u8	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Now we're going with another round. In this case here in Parliament "roda" we equate it with "turn". So, now we're going with the turn in favor or against the amendment. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u9	Good morning. I would also like to remind fellow Raúl Fernández, because he has given us a great lesson, which is that above ideological differences are human values. And I think that all the people we live with, that we had a relationship with him, that we work with him here, we were lucky to enjoy his honesty, his cordiality, his humility. And it leaves a great void, as it happened on its day also with the disappearance of Carlos López Crespo, and I believe that this is the greatest sample of his greatness. And leave us above all a great legacy, the legacy of his kindness and his commitment to making this country a better country. Therefore, forever, his memory with us. [[Applause]] And let's go back to reality, which is the debate of this law. Counsellor, you have here — as is customary — a bureaucratic report and at the same time a report that shows us an idyllic reality. And he also did something that is to build a lie or a false account — or at least partially false — because he cannot say at parliamentary headquarters that this law has a great consensus. Because I have here a note published yesterday by eight conservative entities, led by the Galician Natural History Society, who says that it deeply concerns these conservationist entities this law because it is little ambitious and does not address the grave situation of abandonment of our natural heritage. [[Mr. Bará Torres displays a document.]] I should at least have them reflect this communiqué. And I am no longer referring to others who have also made the Adega public or the Galaga Ecological Federation, or Verdegaia, or many other conservation groups, who question the supposed kindness of this law and make a complete amendment to the entire conservation policy of nature derived from the Law of 2001, which they say is not complied with, for example. So I think they should be a little more committed to that triumphalism with which they talk about this issue and to care more about who cares in the country precisely for defending the natural heritage. And then I'll tell you about the acceptance of the allegations, because reality doesn't correspond to what you said here either. Look, there are two images that I think represent very well what's going on with the natural heritage in Galicia. One is: bulldozers on Barrañan's beach, in an area protected by an instrument such as the Natura Network, literally destroyed by the action of the great excavators, by the great bulldozers; this is how they treat this country -- not only you, because here you still have more responsibilities to look at elsewhere -- the Directorate General of Coasts, the blow of bulldozer, and how they mistreat the natural heritage of this country. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows a photograph.]] And another example is this — which we have already put here on other occasions —: planting eucalyptus in a place that should be a sacred place of the Greek nature: the pedregal of Irimia. [[Mr. Bará Torres displays a document.]] At that time the comrade Mini Rivas and also the cellar made a call for the protection of this space; the cellar called for it to be declared a natural monument; we are still waiting. That's how you treat yourself, how you abuse the great symbolic spaces of Greek nature. And, of course, these are just two examples of a reality that proliferates throughout the territory with continuous and repeated aggressions to natural heritage and diversity and which makes it manifest the desertion of Galicia's Union in care, in the protection of this territory. And we have to use the debate of this law to debate the entire environmental policy and natural heritage of the Galician Union at least in the last ten years, which we have to qualify as Mr Faixóo's black decade in front of this matter. You assume they're conservative, but they're nothing conservationist; what they're better predators, and that's why they chose as a symbol precisely a seagull, which represents precisely the... it's an animal, yes, it's a carnage animal; that's what the seagull is, so it's described. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He's a carnage animal. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Each one chooses the symbols he likes the most. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] And theirs is the policy of laissez do, of laissezfairism, of letting it go, of letting it be destroyed. And we have multiple evidence of this. First of all, indeed, the Natura 2000 Network. Do you know what happened to the Natura 2000 network in Galicia? That we are on the tail of the state in the protection of qualified spaces like Nature Network. We have 12% protection from the territory, when neighborhood communities that have many similarities with us, like Asturias, have protected 29% from the territory, and Castle-Leon, 26%. But this isn't the problem. The problem is that in 2008 there was an extension of the Natura Network to 18%, which you paralyze. And then in 2012 you processed an extension to reach 15% to expand the Natura Network and paralyze it too. And why did they paralyze it, despite the fact that there was a mandate of the European Union to make this enlargement? Because they made other interests prevail because there were interests of wind lobbyists, energy lobbyists, aquaculture lobbyists and forest lobbyists, who wanted to rob those territories and didn't want them to have any kind of protection. That's how the brakes are explained to that expansion of the Natura Network. They weren't even able to give the turbid protection, which are real privileged territories that we should protect and should have extreme care. The final paradox of the example of your contradictions is the debate about the green infrastructure. You approved here an initiative to do the green infrastructure, you didn't, you decided to do it alone in the Coruña area — littleer, right, here it's all micro. This also had interests that we're not going to reveal here, because they already know; the counselor had to show up very much at that time. And what are the conclusions of the green infrastructure? So he proposes that the God God and the Snake Cave be included in the Natura Network, which were already included in the proposals for the 2008 and 2011 enlargements that were not carried out. But what if it took place in those territories was the massive planting of eucalyptus to destroy them, because, in addition, the Town Hall of Aranga what it did was to change the qualification of the land in the general plan, which shifted from natural protection to forest protection. That's how you abuse your natural heritage. And another black chapter is actually that of the landscape. The landscape is the great forgotten in this law and the great mistreatment also by the politics of the Union. Because you haven't yet been able to develop the regulations of the Landscape Law, which is a law of the year 2008; it's been eleven years. And we're also waiting for them to approve the landscape guidelines, which we also know why they don't approve them, because what the landscape guidelines would say prevails over the land management and urban planning instruments, and what you want is to leave the field free precisely to those interests that we all know what they are. And the same could be said of the lack of development and application of the territorial and POL management guidelines. They're not making integrated territorial plans. BNG made a proposal on its day to make an integrated plan with natural firewalls to protect the territory from the great fires, and you voted against it. And you didn't protect the natural spaces recognized in the POL either. We know what you say about the seams of Lourizán, who are qualified in the POL as a space of natural improvement and landscape, and you grant an infamous extension to the sixty-year-old Age to continue to destroy and maltreat that natural space recognized in the POL. Another black page for diversity is the Catalogue of Protected Species, which was approved in 2007; twelve years have passed, Counsellor. You told us here that catalog recognizes 200 two protected species, threatened species. The spokesperson for the Tide Group, Anton Sánchez. Do you know how many conservation and recovery plans you've approved over the course of this time, these ten black years? Three: for the pile of the dunes, for the turtle, and for the writer of the canoes; for sure, the pile of the dunes, which is the bird of the year in Galicia and in the world this year. Well, that's the reality: that you not only approved but paralysed twenty-eight conservation plans that were under treatment in the year 2008 and were charged with a value of one hundred and sixty thousand euros. That's how you do with public money: throw it out of the drain. A hundred and sixty thousand euros that were literally taken away, because you didn't start up, didn't implement those twenty-eight conservation and recovery plans of threatened species. How can you come here with this triumphal speech? The problem, Counsellor, is that biodiversity is not addressed from a global and comprehensive perspective, and what is intended is to do partial decoration, of supposed nice patches, of simulation of what is done, and that broad vision for the conservation of biodiversity is lacking. And for that there is a lack of recognition of what is the underlying problem of loss of biodiversity, which is not that there is more or less protected natural spaces, is that there is a poor conservation and protection policy, that there is abandonment of traditional uses of the territory — and this is a very serious problem — that there is an increase in the land's intensive and predatory agricultural and forestry activities — that is lethal, like the Government, by the way, of Ourense — and the contamination by pesticides and by hydrocarbons, the pressure on habitats or the impact of infrastructures. This is what is lethal to biodiversity, Counselor. And there's a lack of that strategic vision, that very Greek strategy of natural heritage and biodiversity. You should take the example of Castile-Leon, for example, who did this job. And now that they are, in addition, in this New Deal propaganda campaign, which is Mr. Feijóo's great magic tool, from 2030 — it's now 2020 — we're now in 2030 — in this, in addition, it's so common to you between the government and the party, after the black decade now promise us the new 2030 Deal. Well, they should get to work and make that biodiversity strategy by 2030. See, in addition to this flagrant failure to comply with all the legislation that has been passed since 2001, throughout all these years, which is demonstrated in what I have said to you and also in other documents published by these conservative entities, with respect to the law, has defects in processing and proceeding of bulk, which I am not going to stop because they are manifestly explained in the report, as always demolishing, of the General Legal Counsel. But you can't say that you have dealt with 600 claims, that's totally false; you haven't reached even 100, Counselor; and most of them, partially estimated in that way. So none of that. And with regard to substantive issues, what we see in this law are, on the one hand, absences and, on the other hand, exceptions and exceptionalities. We see absences, for example, because we are not talking about the enlargement of the Natura Network, which is a fundamental issue. We see absences because there are no budgets to implement these policies, the economic-financial memory can only qualify it as a cutre, because miner is actually its policy of natural heritage and biodiversity. Do you know how much Galician Union spends on this matter? EUR 5 million, of which EUR 2 million are contributions from the Community's own budget, the rest are other contributions, a total of EUR 5 million, which is 0.2% of the Union's budget, which is EUR 10 billion. I mean, 5 million euros of 10,000 million is what you're meant for the conservation of natural heritage and biodiversity. This is the palpable sample of what you don't want or worry about or do on this issue. It is also the absence, of course, of a fund for natural heritage and biodiversity, which is envisaged in state law and also in the law of Castile-Leon, which is a way to obtain resources to develop this matter and put in place the means to make the development plans of these protected territories, also for their economic dynamization, for the promotion of economic activities, with also quality marks of the products of those territories that you are not doing, which is doing well in other places, and also for the protection of those areas. There is no German catalogue of invasive exotic species, and this also has its explanations. And we also miss the potential for environmental volunteering. As for exceptions, that surface requirement of 10,000 hectares for new natural parks is a demonstration that you don't want to make any new natural park, so of course. Instead, you don't want superparks, you don't want superparks, but you do want microparks, because your policy is mini, it's micro, it's micro, it's micro-consellery, it's micro-horzation, it's like I told you before. And this law also has another exception because, although it says it prevails over urban management and sectoral regulation, it talks about that for imperative reasons of first-order public interest if you can develop projects in those areas, by the way, as it is in state law and as it is recognized. And, ultimately, Counsellor, the summary of your policy could be eucalyptus at the birth of the Minor River and decibels in Corrubedo, which is an area of special protection for birds and a natural park where you organized last year an environmental party with the presence of the President of the Union, putting them all trapped there in an area of protection of nature and for birds.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u11	This is the policy of the Union, which should be called the big one, the big one. This is the policy of the People's Party. This is a bad law. It's bad for what it says and it's bad for what it's quiet, it shows lack of ambition, as conservative entities say, it's an environmental policy cutre, racan, which highlights the lack of commitment, starting with the budget commitment, because you ultimately defend other interests, the interests of lobbyists,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u12	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u13	...of pressure groups,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u14	Thank you, Mr Bará, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u15	...of the power groups and not of the natural environment and diversity and of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u16	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u17	Thank you, President. Today, since I am the first to speak, it is my duty to thank all parliamentary groups for their memory of our colleague Raúl. And, as I think I'm not going to be able to say much more, I'm going to read Raul was good, and I'm going to read a sentence that a fictional character, that was Atticus Finch, that lawyer in Killing a Resignor, who was a good man, said, "One is brave when, knowing he's already lost before he starts, starts despite everything and goes on to the end whatever happens. One wins rarely, but sometimes wins." And that was Raúl. [[Applause]] And if Raúl was like Atticus Finch, President Feijóo is like Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, because now he's that man who's going to be involved in the green flag of environmental defense, exactly like American politics. In these days he said, this weekend he said: Galicia has the capacity to sit on the vanguard with four irrevocable targets towards the year 2030, and one of these targets is a greener Galicia. For this announcement of pure pre-election propaganda concretely announced a future waste law that said he would be here in the next few months. And he said he'd try to reduce them to 15%. We would like to know if the President knows what waste will be reduced, if he knows that the European Waste Directive states that municipalities have to recycle next year — in January 2020 — at least 50% of their waste, and we have not even reached 20%. If you know that of the eleven composting plants and light packaging that you've painted in your waste management plan there's none, none is working, there's one but it doesn't work, there's none, zero. We'd like to know if he thinks the green Galician class has been building you in the last ten years to talk about the ten years that come to us, if he's still president of the board. Mr. Feijóo knows that in order to make this water management together from which he spoke the other day, it is necessary for water to stop being an infrastructure for you and be part of the environment; it would be good if the Galician waters were returned to the Environmental Council. What kind of green Galicia do you leave after ten years of government? Yesterday, you published in the CEO two draft decrees to set up two -- I'm going to say -- "theoretical chiringuits", two interdepartmental committees to promote and coordinate the Welsh Strategy against Climate Change and follow-up to Agenda 2020-2030 in Galicia. I don't know if you know that the Greek strategy took you ten years -- it's been ten years, eh! -- to approve it and that since you've passed it a few months ago, we haven't heard anything about it again. President Feijóo is now remembered. You know that Agenda 2020-2030 was just one of the bets that in June 2018, after winning the motion of censure, President Sánchez, the President of the Government of the State, shouted. You've discovered it now, so you can see it. So what kind of green Galicia have you been building in these last ten years? And now you are the largest defenders of the National Park of the Atlantic Islands. Please, it took eight years to approve the management plan!, it took eight years! And now they're the highest defenders. And they plan to deposit the dredging mud of Pontevedra's creek right on one of the islands, the island of Salvora, which is on the edge... not on the shore, is inside the national park. Every day they do something more than a project for those muds. Of course, what kind of green Galicia do you leave after ten years of government? Well, I'll tell you. They leave what you just said here: to create a new figure with this law that is the Natura 2000 Network. Well, indeed, the Natura Network of 2000 -- we're here in 2019 -- has been created many years ago, Counselor, you're not going to create it. And you're leaving a green Galicia that comes true in this rule. This is 2008 and it is the draft of the Law on the Conservation of the Nature of Government that presided over an evil lord called Emilio Pérez Touriño. 2008, we're in 2019. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo shows a document]] You literally copy most of the articles in this law, in this draft, literally. But, of course!, eleven years late since then, eleven!; eighteen years of delay from the Nature Conservation Act and twelve years of delay from the state law and you come here to defend a bill with decades of delay to Galicia and to the natural heritage and biodiversity of Galicia. That's the problem. I'm going to quote one of your partymates: "We're all of us, but from the cars we know how to get away." Because it's true, they don't sell it to anyone. No one can believe that because of a lot of blue flag I'm involved in and no matter how megaverde I am now, no one will believe, with the data we have on conservation of nature, of waste, of all of Galicia's environmental protection, that you are champions in environmental protection. [[Murmurs.]] Because we're fools, actually -- you've said it many times -- but from cars we know how to get away. And if it were too little, the board of directors is true that they authorized the pre-project handling of this bill, but do you know when?: February 2, 2017; preliminary draft at the Council of the Union, press release, stamp and plate. And he passed by the hand of two different advisors. It was part of the annual regulatory plans that the Government approved for the years 2017 and 2018, which you failed to comply with. That's why maybe the 2019 regulatory plan we haven't met yet, you haven't approved it, because they won't fail to do so unless they do, of course. In 2017, when you published at the Board of Directors that preliminary draft, the objective of having approved plans for recovery or conservation of a total of 45 species listed as endangered or vulnerable by 2020 is anticipated. That's how it was on the press release. And as the previous speakers told them, do you know how many plans you've approved in these last ten years? None. Three years ago, three years ago, none of you. And that's what the government of that evil evil that was Emilio Pérez Touriño left them in development 28 conservation plans, and finished ten for seventeen species. You, three. There are more than 200 species in danger of extinction or vulnerability, counsellor, and you've been late for ten years, eighteen with regard to that law of the year 2001. This reform, as much as you say it's ambitious, is very ambitious. But it's necessary, it's so necessary that we've been waiting for it for almost 20 years. And we want to help elaborate it with our partial amendments, which are going to be a hundred. We want that, as we hear the ecological organizations, which yesterday drew -- indeed, eight -- this press release saying that this law is not ambitious -- and we agree -- we want to make a better law, according to the current situation of the territory and that it recovers those ten years lost in conservation of nature and biodiversity because of their irresponsibility and their inability to manage. We want a modern law that enforces the constitutional right that all people have to enjoy an adequate environment. We want environmental protection to prevail over any other rule, be it territorial, urban or sectoral. We want natural heritage and biodiversity to have a social function, which is not in this law. We want you to prepare a report on the state of protection of the natural heritage and a provision for protection and that every two years they come here and account for us in this Parliament. We want... because that's participation, not only to get involved in a bill, which is no longer an empty word of content. We want the Government to establish a general scheme of economic, technical and financial aid and compensatory measures not only for the territories but for those people who live in protected areas, in natural parks and some — especially during the summer period — in the national park; positive discrimination measures which they bet on favouring these inhabitants of protected spaces, which allow us to enter their habitat in order to enjoy the place where they live, and in return deserve those compensatory measures. We want the marine areas to be protected, which you don't even mention in the bill. Around the national park there is something: they are islands, there are marine areas that should be protected; they are not, they forgot to copy it when they copied the draft of the year 2008. We don't want parks with minimum measures; if those minimum measures were applied, we would now only have a natural park in Galicia, which would be the jury, there would be no more because the rest does not reach those minimum measures unless you want more natural parks, which is probably the battle horse. We want them to bet on the natural parks too for a question: the places where a natural park was declared and the people who live there. I speak, for example, of the Jurés, of Rubiá: Rubiá has evolved demographically nearly six percentage points above the other sixteen municipalities that are outside the natural park and evolved better than in the part of León where there are people who are not natural park, who have evolved downwards demographically. That means we have to protect the areas, and that's not incompatible with demographic evolution; quite the contrary, and it's proven since the jurés natural park was declared until 2016. We don't want microreserves, because we don't have to protect the spaces, we have to protect the species; that's the difference, that's the concept of microreserve. Protecting space doesn't matter if there isn't a species that deserves protection. When they copied other communities they copied badly; they copied the name, but not the concept. We want sustainable development plans, which you don't have in this bill either. We want there to be a fund for the conservation of Galician natural heritage; we want it to be the protagonist of the Greek Observatory on Biodiversity, which has existed since 2007 — with that evil government of Emilio Pérez Touriño — and that you don't mention it in the bill. We want them to create a yellow register of banks of biological and genetic material, precisely to preserve the genetic and biological heritage of wild species. We want to reduce the deadlines for you to settle, as an administration, the procedures that the bill collects; three years are too many. We don't want a negative and distasteful silence that all he does is discourage citizens' participation, because participation is something more than a word. We do not want them to vacillate us with the inclusion in the bill of a last provision that speaks of the amendment of the Act of the implementation of business initiatives and that speaks of waste and Sogama, in a bill of conservation of natural heritage and biodiversity! You always went through the back door; it didn't even appear in the preliminary draft that was displayed on the board transparency page and it didn't even appear in the text that was sent for the report to the General Legal Counsel. We want you to commit yourselves to the development of this law within a year. It is not that the original law is of the year 2001 — eighteen years of delay — it has no regulation, it has never been legally developed. We want you to do this in a year since this law comes into force, which will follow your processing in this chamber. We want there to be a real budget for the law to be real and for the means and actions that contain the law to be real. You don't even keep your budget. In the 2008-2009 fiscal year, real expenditure reached around thirty-seven million euros; in 2016-2018 it dropped by thirty percent. The average annual is over twenty-six million, and you left out of last year's budget 3.6 million euros for the conservation of nature and biodiversity, a 12 percent of the total, almost everything in investments; in addition, considering that you're the only one putting in the budget is 40 percent of the funds, because sixty percent of the remaining funds come from European funds. Still, they dropped about 13 percent and yet, with regard to last year, you didn't execute a 12 percent. We want a participatory law that listens to the ecological organizations, which yesterday, indeed, said that you rejected most of your amendments. That sixty-four percent accepted totally or partially us -- the opposition groups -- know what it is, because partial acceptance is usually a place coma. Of course, if that counts as an amendment, then you would actually approve sixty-four percent. We will see how many amendments we propose to them from the opposition groups. In short, what we want is a nature protection law that we wanted in 2008, but we couldn't finish because Junta varied in March 2009. We want to participate in it, and we want to agree on its text, because it is true that Galicia needs to be green, but not because of its work in the last ten years, not because of its work in the present and we hope that it will not work in the future either. That's why, because we want a new law on conservation of natural heritage and biodiversity, let's abstain from the amendment proposed by the En Marea group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u18	Thank you, Madam villain. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u19	Good morning, gentlemen. I, as the first spokesman of my group to be here and to speak and as a fellow commission, want to make a memory of Raúl Fernández. It was a quiet voice and it was a quiet voice that, however, would be heard many times above the noise that occurs in this chamber. With which, I want these first words to be of remembrance to a member of the socialist family and a friend of all that we have had the opportunity to share, to be able to have a debate with him and also to be beneficiaries of his great respect, of the respect which he has always shown to the political opponents in the debate. [[Applause]] I am already going to the new text that is going to proceed today, because of course our group is going to reject the whole amendment that Mr Sánchez has tabled, first of all I want to clarify that we are not here today to discuss the law, today we are here to debate the whole amendment that Mr Sánchez has tabled. That is to say, I understand that Parliamentary procedures and parliamentary processes will have to be respected, and we will have time and time to be able to debate it both in the speech and in the committee, and then here in the plenary. And I also think that if we go with such marked positions and if we go with such a direct confrontation against the law itself, against the new text, it's going to be very difficult for us to reach some sort of agreement. But I think it's an opportunity and, since we have a new text, there's at least a certain predisposition to some sort of agreement. This text has already gone through public participation and information processes, and it's not true what you're saying. I've been here reviewing the allegations, I've taken note of a few of them, and, of course, I give you the credibility of what the advisor said: it's 637 claims that have been incorporated into the text, about sixty-five percent. Home!, I am seeing here: Galaga Society of Natural History, claims are incorporated into articles 3, 5, 11, 12, 21, 26, 33, 44, 47, 62, 76, 81 and 115; Add, claims have been incorporated into articles 3, 11, 15, 17, 19, 26, 116 and 121; Colleges of Biologists, to articles 2, 3, 11, 15, 17 and 80. And so, we went on with the Monte Engineers College, with the IGC -- see!, this government also estimated some allegations in articles 2, 13, 115, 116 -- UXT, Workers' Commissions, Labour Union, the reserves of the biosphere, University of the Crown and Confederation of Galician Entrepreneurs, which also made their contributions. I mean, it's not true what you're saying. There was, heard and accepted a lot of allegations, and some others surely that we, in our parliamentary process, can also love some of them. It's not true that the partially estimated allegations are because a comma is being moved. I took part in lawmaking processes, I had here the opportunity to work with you, to work with Mrs. Vilán and Mr. Casal in drafting a law and the partial estimates that were made to their amendments were not to move commas. Home! Tell me already, because then we also set off another attitude towards the new law, to work differently. Because if in the end, after the enormous effort that is made to reach agreements and to negotiate initiatives, then the only thing we are going to receive is their contempt and the denial of that effort that is made to reach those transactions, hey! we have a debate that will be much faster and much more comfortable, if they tell me that this is their attitude. Of course, we avoid getting into the debate on points. If your answer is going to be the same: voting that no and then denying all that effort and all the work that is done, we're going wrong; but I think we're perverting the work that has to be done in Parliament. Our duty is to debate and our duty is to reach agreements. Hey! getting to accords doesn't mean that Mr. Bará comes here with ten points and that I have to admit the ten points; bad if it is, we're not going. I think talking and reaching agreements is getting to intermediate positions as well. But we already know that sometimes parliamentary debate is what it is, and sometimes reality must be denied so as not to move from its position. Recognizing merit to the Government party, I understand that sometimes the opposition is very costly and will never be for that work. This new standard also empowers information and favors the mechanisms of collaboration, cooperation and participation of society to ensure the protection of natural heritage, and it is a text that incorporates, in addition, important news. A little bit in the form of summary: the declaration of microreserves, which is framed within the natural reserve category, is a new figure that seeks to preserve and protect smaller spaces, from surfaces smaller than twenty hectares, containing habitats or threatened species; that's the purpose of microreserves. The new rule will also allow the scope of a natural space to understand several municipalities. Mechanisms for the protection, conservation and maintenance of species living in Galicia are also improved. The sanctioning regime is hardened, and the most important thing is that the new text also gives special interest and special attention not only to the sanction itself, but also to the repair and restoration of the damaged natural heritage. Mrs Bará, you did not make a whole amendment, however, you defended here Mr Sánchez's amendment perhaps with much more vehemence than Mr Sánchez himself did. I don't know what happened, I don't know if you meant to register an amendment and you didn't, I don't know if they were in other things, but it's hard to understand that you're giving him more vehemence than Mr. Sánchez. I, Mrs. Vilan, did not understand well: you agree, but you think this law is late. I've been reviewing the proposals that the different groups made, and I haven't seen any laws on natural heritage either. I understand that, if we really thought it was so necessary and that this law is so outdated, a year ago, two or three years ago, your group would bring a law to this chamber. The reality is that this text is being debated and we are talking about it because it is the Government that brings it to the House. But if I agree with you on one thing, and we will surely be able to reach an agreement with an amendment of yours that says you think it's good for Mrs Vázquez to come within two years to realize the evolution of this law. I not only believe it is good for Mrs Vázquez to come, but surely Mrs Vázquez will be the next environmental adviser and will have to come within two years also to account for the application of this law, because I understand that in the elections the Greeks will again trust the People's Party so that Mrs Vázquez can be advisor. You see, Mrs. Vilan? [[Applause]] If you make appropriate proposals, our group will support them and will also share the will that Mrs Vázquez comes here within two years. In short, the law envisages important progress and very positive aspects. It shows that only one group — which, in addition, is what is these days in fights and what has announced its division as well — presents an amendment to the whole; an amendment to the whole that seems to be more fruit of a prefixed position and of a way of understanding politics as a continuous confrontation than an analysis of the new text being brought to the House, also of the alternatives that there could be of that text and of looking for the best, of course, for our land. It gives me the feeling that if the text were to continue today's parliamentary procedure, Mr. Sánchez's group would make an amendment to the whole; it would look for a series of incredulous arguments, you would twist the meaning of the new text and come here with an amendment to the whole and with a speech very similar to today's. What you did today is no surprise to anyone: you did a justification of your amendment with a series of arguments made, precisely, to justify yourself, and that's important to understand. You didn't do an analysis of the new text, you didn't lose a minute in reflecting whether the text was good or whether the text was good but it was likely to improve; you started from the basis that, as the text brings you a government that isn't your party or that you're not, this text was already bad. So it amends to the whole and then to think about how we're going to defend that amendment. For that, he makes a series of claims that either are false or he has to have a lot of imagination to give them for good. For example, you say that there are certain issues of forgetfulness that are not such; not only are they false, but, in addition, some of those forgetfulness that you say you are not in the law, it turns out that they are in the law. You say that Article 84 forgets Article 46(7) of the law of 2007, but it turns out that it goes to Article 95.5. What is the problem for your group, which instead of being numbered in Article 84 is in Article 95.5? Look, I doubt very much that you didn't realize your mistake, but you were so fine with the amendment that yes, the collar, and that's it. I think you have to have a little more rigor, and justify a whole amendment because one thing goes into an article and not what you want me to think it has quite little rigor. You also justify your amendment because the text does not regulate matters as important as our rivers or different aspects of agricultural forest policy. See: the protection of the environment has a cross-cutting component, so that all sectoral rules, including those relating to forestry, fisheries and agriculture, must collect the preservation of the environment and the measures necessary for preservation. From this premise, man! it is evident that this norm cannot and must not contain a specific regulation for each of these sectoral matters, since this would lead to a certain out-limitation of the law itself. On the basis that this law cannot replace sectoral laws, on the basis that all these sectoral laws are necessary, we cannot regulate through the Natural Heritage Act the rest of the sectors of our community, but it can — and does so — collect minimum guidelines in the different sectors which have a greater impact on the environment, such as the one it carries out in relation to forest action, which is justified, precisely, on the importance of the forest sector of our autonomous community and which is intended, in addition, to ensure that forest actions are carried out in a manner consistent with the objectives of this bill. Just as an example: Article 17 focuses on forest actions and Article 19 gathers an explicit reference to the need for forest planning to integrate itself as one of its objectives that forest use does not cause harm in certain spaces. It also cites the possibility that codes of good practice could be drawn up that would enable sectoral actions to be compatible with the conservation of natural heritage. In the case of the Galician rivers, I would like to remind you that there is a specific regulation, Law 9/2010 of 4 November, of Galician waters, and in particular Article 6 thereof, which speaks precisely of the special regime for the protection of the quality of the waters of Galician rivers, in the title in which the rules for the protection of waters for our rivers are laid down. With which, if it's regulated in that law the protection of our laughs, it doesn't make much sense that we're going to reproduce and copy and paste one law into the others. Then, Your Honor, you make very serious accusations and, besides, you do them with a lot of ease and no basis. It says that the law keeps tics characteristic of this government that open the possibility of discretion in urban and economic activity in protected spaces. Look: there is a basic state regulation that is binding on us, which is binding on the rest of autonomous communities and which is binding on municipalities as well, and in our text it is made clear the prevalence of planning and management instruments of a protected space over any other sectoral and urban planning; this puts the law directly. And if you refer to the exceptions set out in Article 50(2) and (3) of the bill, when you compete with "primary reasons of first-order public interest", it is because these exceptions are collected in Article 19(3) and (4) of the law of 2007, which, as set out in its second final provision, is basic and state regulations and is therefore binding on us. In other words, what compels us by state law to reflect on our law for you is a reason to amend it completely. But the best thing about everything is that for you it is a reason to amend everything on the one hand, that our law is done according to the basic legislation, the other is complained and it is also justified by the amendment to the whole because we do not reflect in its literality paragraphs that are in the State Basic Law of 2007. Mr. Sánchez, article 2 of the law of 2007 refers only to the principles inspired by that law, which require not a literal transcription into the bill of autonomy, but to be observed in it. It is clear that the bill has to conform to the basic regulations, but this cannot be supposed to have to reproduce in its entirety the contents of that law, since it would then be very difficult for us to justify here that we needed a specific law for our community if at the end of the day what we were going to do — that is what you propose — is a copy and takes the law of a state character. Consequently, these principles are incorporate to the text of the bill, whether expressly, as it occurs with principles 2(a) and 2(e) or throughout its articulation, as it occurs with the principle that affects the sustainable development of natural and semi-natural spaces, which is inserted throughout the entire law. Regarding the minimum surface area for consideration of new natural parks, this bill regulates protected natural spaces and classifys them into eight categories: natural reserve, park, natural monument, protected wetlands, protected landscape, protected space Natura 2000 Network, natural space of local interest and private space of natural interest. Indeed, one of these categories is parks, which are regulated in Article 24 and which are defined — and I don't know if you're against this definition — as natural areas which, by the beauty of their landscapes, representativity of their ecosystems or the singularity of their flora, fauna or their geological diversity, including their geomorphological formations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u20	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u21	...these ecological, aesthetic, educational or scientific values that deserve preferential attention. The same singularity of that protected natural space requires a continuous and non fragmented minimum surface requirement. In addition, the same applies to national regulations — which you say is not so — the Law on National Parks, precisely, also sets limits on spaces. This could go on with all of the arguments you use. They're arguments that don't justify a whole amendment, you're fully aware of it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u22	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u23	The rest of the groups also know that they are not justifiable to a whole amendment and that's why they haven't made a amendment. What I would like is that, now that the parliamentary process for the drafting of the law is going to be initiated, we can reach agreements.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u24	Thank you, Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u25	I have already remembered that I have had the opportunity to work with other Members to pass other laws.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u26	Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u27	I hope that this will be the same, that we will be able to reach agreements and be able to deal with them and that, in the end, we can approve among all the best law for Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u28	Come on, get on with it. [[Mr. Trenor López utters words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Thank you. Replica from the amending group. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u29	Good morning again. It says the People's Party that we don't like to acknowledge the merits of your party; you have a lot of merit. You think we, as members of the opposition, have to come here to say that it rains and not that they piss for us, of course. They have the merit, for example, of failing to comply with the law, of having a Nature Conservation Act of 2001 setting fundamental criteria for the conservation of biodiversity, recovery plans for endangered species or conservation plans for threatened species, with a catalogue approved by decree in 2007 with 200 species, and the work of Government Feijóo since 2009 is to make three plans of the 200, and they want us to come here to recognize their good work. You, who promised to approve the landscape guidelines in 2017 -- Mr. Feijóo promised it in December 2016 and it's June 25, 2019 -- they want us to come here and tell them amenable to everything. You say that our refund amendment is not justified; it is justified. You are missing about this, for example, the eight environmental organizations that even yesterday took out a press release by harshly criticizing this legislative text and claiming that they did not take them into account when doing this legislative text. They're missing that, because they're saying they have no reason to stand up to a law that doesn't improve the future of the natural conservation of this country. We're not here for the confrontation as the last end, but obviously, with its conception of economic model and environmental protection, we can only be faced with, of course, yes. We are in front of your model, which allows you not even to comply with the laws that you most approve. It allows cankers to be reactivated at the Lastra Machine sawmill when they have been stopped for more than five years. You haven't done the law by starting an expiry file from that quarry, and so what you're doing is a law fraud, you're opening a new quarry in a natural park, you're not reactivating the activity of a quarry. You allow wind farms to be installed at the Iribio saw when it's Nature Network. You don't approve the expansion of the Natura Network to first consolidate the wind farms that are in processing and favor those interests, because you know that if you were expanding before they could never be located there. Well, of course we're dealing with you, but we're dealing with arguments, and they're already told them. The limitation that the state-of-the-art legislation of the parks is in the national parks, not in the natural parks, of which no limitation is imposed. But even if you set it up, you have to come here and explain the arguments why you set that limitation that would make, if it were in force, there was only one natural park currently in Galicia and five of the six could not be natural parks because of that limitation. They have to come here and argue, and do not disqualify the arguments that we present here. Why do they set such a limitation? That's what they have to convince us if they want a constructive debate, and not just disqualify the opposition proposals. Or, for example, you have to justify why you don't create a yellow catalogue of invasive exotic species, thus staying at the top of what the state catalogue decides, when you know that the action will be early in the face of these species' invasion is fundamental. Why don't you guys want to pick your fingers with a yellow catalogue of invasive exotic species? You have to justify the concept -- I'm not quoting Manquina -- that you express in the law on microreserve, which is a concept that has nothing to do with the concept introduced into Valencia law, for example. The microreservation here, in this legislative text, is considered a type of natural reserve, which is the most restrictive figure within protected natural spaces. We understand that integrating micro-reservations into the stricter natural space protection figure remains capacity and possibilities for its declaration and operation. The concept of micro-reservation that emerges in Valencia in the 1990s expresses an alternative model to classical figures of protected natural spaces, often socially rejected and in practice sometimes found little operational. They have the virtue of ensuring the favourable state of conservation of small populations of flora and fauna from endemic communities or with little territorial significance, minimizing social conflicts that could provoke other canonical figures. This is the concept of micro-reservation that we believe should be incorporated. You, for example, speak of your legislative determinations about the custody of the territory, where you make a drastic change that can harm the work that the NGOs are already doing in this country, because this law only includes those agreements on how to preserve and manage the plot, where the owner does not give up rights to property. Most of the land's custodial actions come from agreements...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u30	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u31	...purchasing or renting, which are not contemplated in this law and which may also be an objection to this activity. They also include the right to so much and retract in various types of protected spaces, but they drop off on plots located on the Natura Network; we believe it's a mistake. And so, it could give you many of the arguments why, of course, we tabled this amendment of return, because this law makes the current environmental conservation situation worse, and because it is preceded by a lack of credibility of a government that has not even done or implemented the previous law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u32	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Debates and votes of the Ditame, delivered by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, on the draft law on pharmaceutical management in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u33	The debate and vote on the Draft Law on Pharmaceutical Management are now taking place. The amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of En Marea are kept for discussion. Mr Tellado, Vice-President of Commission 5a, Health, Social Policy and Employment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. The Galician Pharmaceutical Management Act was entered into the Parliamentary Register on 8 March 2019. Its admission to the proceedings was carried out by the Bureau of Parliament at its meeting on 20 March, opening the deadline for the submission of amendments, which ended on 8 and 29 April for amendments to the whole and the joint, respectively. In particular, the amendment to the full refund submitted by the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea was rejected at the plenary meeting on 7 May. For its part, the amendments to the articulation presented and admitted to the procedure were a total of one hundred and fifty: fifty-three of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia, seventy of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, twenty-two of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea and five of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia. Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, at its meeting on 9 May, appointed the presentation to prepare the report, which was formed on 13 May, and at the following four meetings the rapporteurs and the rapporteurs, Ms Marta Rodríguez-Vispo Rodríguez of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Ms Eva Solla Fernández of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Julio Torrado Quintela of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia and Ms María Monserrat Prado Cores of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Group of Galicia, prepared the report with their final recommendations, which were issued on 29 May. Subsequently, Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, at its meeting on 13 June, approved the Ditome which I am putting forward for nine votes in favour and three against, incorporating in the text of the bill, in addition to the corresponding technical amendments, forty-nine amendments, eight of them dealt with. It is therefore necessary to complete the processing of this legislative procedure today with the approval, if any, of the Galician Pharmaceutical Management Bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u35	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. We therefore begin the debate with the turn of parliamentary groups to set its position. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u36	Good morning. Good morning to the representatives of the pharmacy offices, who I see are in the gallery accompanying us in this debate. Indeed, we are at the final stage of processing this Galician Pharmacy Act and at BNG we continue to maintain that this law is a missed opportunity. We believe it's a better law in some of the aspects it contemplates and, above all, in matters that don't collect this law. The truth is, however insisting that this is an integral law, and so it is established in the explanatory statement of the law itself and also in the public and published communication that both the leaders of the Board of Health and the president of the board, that this was an integral law that addressed the fundamental aspects of pharmaceutical care in Galicia, of course, in the BNG we believe that no, which basically remains in aspects of regulation of the boutique offices. It has a very profitable commercial aspect, but not assistance, and it leaves too many aspects undeveloped at the expense of future regulatory developments without limited time space to address them. We believe, therefore, that it is a missed opportunity to regulate pharmaceutical care in primary care, its articulation and integration, and that it is quite far from being that integral approach. The BNG presented fifty-three partial amendments relating to different areas with the aim of improving this law and introducing aspects which do not include it. I have to say that, despite the good environment, the tailoring and the formal predisposition to dialogue, practical translation was the acceptance of minor issues and none of them of silence. They were not accepted by the majority party, by the People's Party, issues that we considered to be more relevant since the BNG and which was good for them to be reflected in this law. Some minor issues have been accepted, as I say, such as that the scope of this law is Galicia, of course, but it did not appear in the law; that pharmacy offices have to be accessible to people with functional diversity, which also, surprisingly, did not appear collected in the law; that the proceedings must be carried out in the field of public health and not only in the field of the acquisition, custody or distribution of medicines, or the change in the designation of social assistance institutions by social health care institutions. Of course, in the BNG we believe that words mean, words reflect reality, and we believe that we have to overcome that aspect of social care by socio-health care. Not in vain, the Galician Board itself and the Health Council in 2013 approved the Sociosanitary Care Plan, but then, unfortunately, it hardly passed the paper. But that seems to us to be not a matter for this law that is going to be passed not to appear that concept of socio-health care and not the concept of social assistance alone, because we have an increasingly aging population that needs that attention in that dual, health and social aspect, that is, health care. Those that were not accepted were the amendments proposed by the BNG that went towards deeper changes. To begin with, questions relating to the use of Greek, a question on which the ESC's own report also refers, with regard to what should be used for the numbering of letters which are considered in the Greek alphabet and which are discarded, for example, the iota or ka, because they are not part of the Greek alphabet; for it has not been taken into account, that is, it has been discarded that way. We also demanded that if you could set apart pharmacy or pharmacy; they're the two perfectly valid, they're the two perfectly correct, they're both covered by the Royal Galega Dictionary as synonyms and we don't understand why that refusal that the bottic nomenclature cannot be used. We also proposed the positive discrimination of the Galician in the information on guard services, which should at least be in Greek. We have opted for a formula of harmonic bilingualism which, of course, we believe is not enough. We also present amendments to give concretion and security to the types of sales which must be prohibited: that it be explicitly and nested in this norm which was prohibited for the sale of street goods, the sale at home, electronics or by correspondence; that it be prohibited for the intermediation in the spirit of profit of third persons, or the sale or marketing of medicines returned or delivered by sick persons. We believe that it should be explicitly left in this law, even though these issues may appear collected in other rules, but it seemed to us that it was also the moment they were included here. They weren't accepted either. We tabled amendments to ensure that the administration makes decisions in the event that the person who holds the pharmacy award cannot continue in front of the pharmacy office. I have to remember that pharmacies are public concessions for the benefit of a person with a title, so it is normal — we consider it in the BNG — to be the administration to determine how, when, in what time, and under what conditions that title is managed: the appointment of the resident person and withdrawing the tender from the use of transmissions by the competent council, or the advance award to determine the preference order for such transmission. We agree that this is not to be seen and that it is not to be seen as a time horizon to convene new adjudication contests. We think it's good to give security and that there are deadlines for these contests if they have to be convened. I also want to show the concern that this rule leaves the door open to pharmaceutical exclusion from parts of Galician territory. We believe that the criteria for economic profitability are prioritized rather than the needs of the population. The ESC also states in its report that this law does not guarantee pharmaceutical assistance in parts of our country's rural areas. Of course, at the BNG we agree and share this concern expressed by the ESC. It follows the rule that in all the municipalities of Galicia there may be a pharmacy office; we believe that that "may" means that, if there is no law, it does not violate, with which, of course, it leaves the door open to which whole municipalities may not even have a pharmacy office. Of course, we believe that concern about rural areas — and this was going to be rural legislation for the People's Party — cannot be realized in further loss of services in rural areas and should therefore be considered. We tabled an amendment that at least in each county there must be a pharmacy office; it seems to us that it is a minimum that should be established in this norm and that it does not remain that way. We're also in the BNG totally against this rule collecting the right to conscientious objection. Of course, we believe that the conscientious objection of professionals who have a public concession to drug and device dispensation cannot be contemplated in such a legislation. We think it's against citizens' right to access drugs or devices that are legal, that are authorized. Of course, the ethical and moral position of the concession holders cannot limit the right to access to any drug or device that is legal and that is authorized to be marketed. It seems to us that this conscientious objection should not be contemplated. We are also concerned that the pharmacy offices are established to provide their services in a regime of freedom and time flexibility. Of course, it is well known that in the BNG we are against this ultra-liberalization in the commercial aspect, and, as is envisaged in this law, there is the consolidation of that trade liberalization. We tabled an amendment to suppress that aspect of freedom and time flexibility with the intention of curating schedules. We defend the need to care for the population, but this cannot be at the expense of promoting unfavoured consumerism or the hourly slavery of commercial establishments such as most pharmacies, which are served in practically familiar regimes or with only one pharmacy or pharmacy in front. We believe that it is possible to schedule a scheduled and operational schedule, which you know is the opening and closing time, with slots; it was at a time set like this. We can even set different schedules with day enlargement or night enlargement, but we believe that it should be regulated and not simply so, in a generic way, freedom and time flexibility, which we think is a bit encouraging the law of the jungle. We believe that in a regulated public service, you shouldn't stay that way. We are also concerned that, while public health hours are reduced, consultations are closed in the afternoon and public health access is hampered, then there is no problem in promoting such freedom and time flexibility. It seems to us that there is a double standard or a double measuring rod: while attempting to squeeze the public health space, on the other hand, there is no problem with that freedom of public service, even if it is dispensed by private companies, as is the pharmacy service. We also show our concern because the planning of pharmacy offices, as it is covered by this law, has to guarantee only appropriate, timely or efficient attention. It seems to us, of course, that it is insufficient, very insufficient, this consideration and that this attention and planning of the pharmacy offices should be carried out on the basis of the needs of pharmaceutical care to the population and, in addition, equity. It must not only be a convenient and timely attention, but there must be a planning that meets the needs of equity, the needs that the population must have guaranteed minimums and throughout the territory. As I said before, pharmacy offices have the peculiarity that they are health facilities that have the condition of service of public interest, but they are private property as public concession. It's the drugs that are prescribed in the public system. I mean, they're part of the public system link, they're the last part of that link where you have to combine that public service interest, not the profit interest, of course. Entrepreneurs who have a concession seek an economic advantage, but they must always be united with the interest of the population in receiving quality assistance and throughout the territory. So we believe that, of course, that consideration of planning also leaves the door open to imbalances in the territory, that we believe, of course, that they are nothing good. And we are also concerned that the text does not refer to the adherence and difficulty of access to drugs from vulnerable groups because they do not confront the Cops or those who are excluded. So — I insist — we thank that good heel, but we miss that there was no such willingness to go to more quiet issues than the ones I have just listed. Of course, I insist that we believe that this is a missed opportunity to regulate in an effectively comprehensive way — not that it is a word contained in the norm, but that it then does not develop in that way — with a law in which public interest was the determining element and with a law where the administration, by the board of Galicia, wanted to go beyond a regulation of issues such as surfaces, hygienic conditions, access or transfer of pharmacy offices. Of course, we believe that this law is based on certain aspects, as I said at the outset, on matters which it contains, which we believe should be contemplated in a different way, and, above all, on broad elements which it does not contain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u38	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. Good morning, Counselor. Good morning, too, to the people who accompany us today, following this debate of this law, who have contributed, in addition to — we must also recognize it — that the groups could have a broader, more involved and deeper view of the situation and therefore also build our own amendments and lead to a better debate, and we must also thank them. By making a minimally chronological review of the evolution of this preliminary draft and bill: from the very first moment, from the Socialist Group we said it was an insufficient law, it was a small law, and it was at the expense of having something else. There are aspects that remain outside the law, and we believe it was an opportunity to regulate them. It's a law, probably, more corporate and fiscal courting than health care, and therefore that also disagrees with points of view of origin already, why confronting a law whose need to face was of recognized interest. Perhaps, from our point of view, there are aspects outside that have not been addressed or perspectives that have not been taken into account since the beginning as they should: from our point of view, full access and full quality assurance, contributing to the greater sustainability of pharmacists themselves in the law so that they can advance and deepen on the quality assurance of the service they offer and the pharmacy offices, and have the prospect that the user also has a guarantee implemented in the law. Many times, when discussing this law, we found ourselves with conclusions that some of the things we were proposing were already included in other laws, but many times it is very interesting that they might be included in the laws themselves that affect them. Even if they repeat, it is no problem if you adapt some articles of law to others—repeating, of course, not contradicting—to give greater cohesion to documents. From our point of view, that was not entirely complete. The guarantee of access was not dealt with, there were some difficulties, as many surveys and social realities have shown, and there are even some issues, such as differences between hospital pharmacies and pharmacy offices, which are not included in the law and which should have greater specificity. There are some aspects, some gaps about the possibilities that pharmacy offices have about hospital pharmacies, which are not completely regulated; they didn't intend to enter that and might be an opportunity to do so. In any case, it was in some way participatory, especially at the beginning. It is true that there has been the participation of groups of the official schools and of groups representatives of the pharmacy offices, despite the fact that, in the end, there have not been — and so have been — an explanation of, before some debates brought about at the time of the actualization of the law, why it has been chosen by some options or by others. It's good to be participatory to the end even to say no, that it's also, sometimes, part of the construction of the text. From our point of view, that also shows that there was a good intention at first on some issue, but in the end it seems that everything was left in some diffuse scope. It has passed quite a lot on this issue, for example — and I have already set the example on the last occasion when we had the opportunity to debate this — with the application of the concession bar: eternally criticized, hard criticised by the People's Party, but used. If there was so much hurry to change the law, you could also use some speed to change some barriers. Sometimes the times of the Galician Union are inscrutable paths; or not, just as if they wanted to use it and they didn't want to change as much as they said they were. But that's for another more philosophical debate at another time. In accordance with this analysis we have made at the outset, we have tabled several amendments — the most amended political group —: seventy. Directed to what? Directed to include what we thought was outside, which was the user's point of view: ensuring that balance between pharmacy offices, pharmacists and users; that this intermediate step and that that relationship between both sides was actually integral. It is not an integral law if you integrate only part of your views. We have included several points of view that we have created interesting: some of these minor issues but which were right to be realized and which were explicit in the law, and some — it is true — with a more transformative will. This is a conservative law, in some way; it is natural and not critical in that sense, but from our point of view we needed to be more transformers, for example — and I will quote later — with the need for a review of the pharmaceutical map: it did not say to review itself — which was another debate — but rather the need for the procedures for its review to be as broad and as participatory as possible. We defend, in addition to these points of view, some questions in a much more specific way, and I will stop on one of them: that for us it was — and we know those who were part of the debate of the law — the so-called home dispensation, which in the text is included as an informed delivery; the words define very much what we say. Even it is possible — I do not know whether it is technically possible — or it is even a term on which we could debate if we change. It's not implicitly an informed delivery, it's home pharmaceutical care, because it's more technical, and I think that would also lead to greater acceptance by everyone. A delivery is something much simpler and this is a more complex process. We were talking about that question — not only about terminology, which is also relevant and I insist that we could have the possibility to change even that nomenclature — because it is a process that opens up some doubts. Why did we think it was necessary to work specifically on this, that there was no will at first by the majority group? Because we intend to cover three questions. The first is to really guarantee that quality of attention to the user, and therefore that is a space where we need to talk, discuss and regulate about this. Why? Because there are realities that invade legislation and, therefore, you have to work on them and you have to give them an answer; that's first. And from that, what do we need? We need to not tame the pharmacy. We cannot turn this into a process of competitive inequality between pharmacies or between offices that end up becoming a competition to see who makes deliveries best — then if he had, in that process, more sense that term — and who has the fastest distributors or the most competitive prices only as a criterion of pharmaceutical care. That's not the goal, so we wanted to limit that aspect. And thirdly, to ensure the quality of the process, which we're all going to agree with as users, as pharmacists and even as users or pharmacists, but as citizens that we observe and that we want the system to work properly. In these three axes we raised a very essential question for us, which was to limit and be as restrictive as possible on the issue of that pharmaceutical zoning with regard to that so-called home dispensation, or what would be better, home pharmaceutical care. Why? Because, if necessary in any case that we should regulate, it would be possible to treat this in order to make it easier for the offices and pharmacies that should do so to be the closest, in that sense, to the patient or the patient who asks for it, by a question — it is true — of competitive equality or to avoid competitive inequality between them, but also to facilitate a pharmaceutical-patient relationship that was more natural. In any case, avoid large pharmacies invading small pharmacies, by saying so in a somewhat more common tone but which can be understood easier. So our goal there was to help that service; not to eliminate it, on the contrary, to regulate it, but to regulate it enough so that, if they could give it, they could guarantee all the possibilities necessary for it to be given with the greatest proximity and it was a real service of home pharmaceutical care, and not a far-reaching delivery that would open the door to end up being a more amazonized service, by saying it again. So that was probably the biggest debate. What do we conclude from that debate? Our group will vote in favour of this bill. We have made a constructive criticism and now we have a critical construction — allow me to play words. Why? Well, we do, in a way, in a very positive way, a good dialogue attitude. We tabled seventy amendments, as we said, but apart from that, not only did we present them, but we were the group that most amended transactions and were accepted quite a few of these: twenty-nine, if I do not misjudge the accounts between the two issues. This includes that issue which for us is essential — as we have just explained — about home pharmaceutical care. We therefore understand that this will of dialogue which all groups have shown — of course, the majority group — is necessary to reflect it and must also be part of the parliamentary debate. From our group, we inevitably recognize the majority and we want minorities to be recognized; but from then on that debate must be built like this, and we believe that this process is reasonable. Sometimes — let me point it out — we would like to see the majority and minorities respected in other health debates, especially from the majority group, but in this case it has been done, and we believe that this law deserves that recognition too. So many questions have been accepted; it is true that some of them could be considered minor amendments, but some of them had some meaning for us. And, of course, it was also agreed at the last moment to modify what was important to us about home pharmaceutical care. So we believe that this construction of debate is a natural process of building a law, where the relationships of forces must dialogue to find points of approach. In that sense, we believe that we must also refer to those good conduct with a favourable vote, which, as we have always said, we will not have any problem with giving when it is worth it. There are things left out, that is yes, that we would like to debate, and therefore it is not complete. It couldn't be a law that fully satisfied us, it's impossible; it should never be a law of 100 percent of the pleasure of any group, it should be a law built. For us there are things we wish they were, and let me mention some of them. The restriction of conscientious objection. From our point of view, the user must have fully guaranteed his right to be cared for in the pharmacy offices with all guarantees and with all rights, and there is some door open. You can probably argue that it's small, that it's small in number, that it's small in law, but it shouldn't. Rights are not questionable in part, they are complete or they are not right. So we think there's a space there that should be improved. The other groups also tabled amendments. Even by sharing background, they were some different, and no discussion was agreed upon about any of them. We believe, in addition, in a matter of facilitating services in pharmacies thinking about users, that it was not agreed to discuss. We also perceived, in a way, that there was a lot of regulation about the excess of pharmacy offices but there was a special will and not a regular one about the deficit. So it's quite regular about one of the limits: that there is no oversaturation because it's a market that is, in a way, intervened, but that there is no regulation about deficit causes empty spaces in difficulty to meet some areas. The law probably wasn't completely solved, because it's a much deeper debate and because it also has to do with the private investment of people who open a pharmacy, but it has the need to be regulated, and here it goes through a gray area and it stays out of the debate when the pharmaceutical management law is ordering a lot about the excess or saturation of pharmacies but not on the lower limit, not guaranteeing the full extent of pharmaceutical care. We should deal with this problem, which is a problem from every angle and which probably doesn't have a single solution, and of course, from our group we assume that we don't have a perfect solution, there isn't, but what we can't have a pharmaceutical management law is not regular about the minimums, we shouldn't. We set up some very curiously rejected amendments about giving the board more powers in the control of global legislation, and they were rejected. It surprises the Socialist Group's desire to give competence to the Government of the United Nations and that the Government of the United Nations rejects — the Government of the People's Party's Union — allow me to associate. It's a little bit of the debate when one wants to give another more capabilities and the other rejects them, it's a peculiar debate. We haven't just understood why the Health Council should have no more competence than it has. And we also thought -- as I said before -- about the pharmaceutical map. It's not necessary to check it immediately, which could be, but there was a possibility that there would be more eyes on the map, more contributions, or in stricter terms. The pharmaceutical map, which is undoubtedly a political criterion, because it is, it has enormous technical work, but it has political criteria at last, because it regulates itself legally and therefore the rules and laws have political criteria, it should go through Parliament at least, it should be dealt with. At no time did we say we didn't even vote, that it could even be a debate, but we didn't even consider that, just to inform, to treat, to debate in Parliament, and not even that, which for us does not dismantle a fundamental part of Galicia's pharmaceutical planning design, which is to have criteria, precisely, about what we said, about the excesses or defects or the limits or the opportunities to improve the map, and that was also rejected. So we believe there are things that were better, and we continue with that vision that the law is still too small. In spite of that, from our point of view the regulated, what's inside, can be acceptable. It's a law that loses, yes, an opportunity to be better, We believe that if we lose an opportunity to regulate more completely, and, of course, we will be rigorous in the demands of their compliance, not because we distrust, but as that old mariner said: mistrust, and so you will be able to trust much better. Therefore, we will be strict in our compliance from that. We will vote in favour, we will again thank the speaker and the goodwill of the groups that participated in the presentations, of all groups, and we believe that it would be a good starting point for other issues in the health policy in which, notoriously, we have more discrepancies and that, despite that, we could have learned all that it is easier to build with good will than with more distant positions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u39	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u40	Thank you, President. Good morning. Good morning, too, to the people who are invited, to the professionals who are watching this debate. We have moved from the beginning of the debate of this law, and with the amendment to the whole that we present, we understand that this rule was short and did not honor the name as Galician Pharmaceutical Management Act. We have already said from the outset that it seems to us that the responsibilities in the field of pharmacy and pharmaceutical coverage of the population that has an autonomous community, which has in this case Galicia, cover a much wider field than what has to do with the internal regulation of the functioning of primary care pharmacies, of the stores in our case, and therefore we understand that there were other important issues that were not considered within the norm and that, therefore, it seems quite scarce to us in the ambition that a government has to have in relation to the concern about the coverage of the rights in relation to pharmacy of the entire population of a country. I mean, practically, except for some element that I'll then refer to and what we've already referred to during the commission too, that can be a certain novelty, such as what it has to do with radiopharmacy and some other article, the rest of the articles are basically based on regulating the transmission and internal operation of the shops, and therefore this is an element that remained and remains quite short for us as to call it pharmacy law, pharmaceutical management. In that sense, to move that we have already announced at the time that we were in agreement with some aspects that regulated the rule, but that we lack very important aspects that concern us about the situation of the pharmacy in our country, and that have not been met. When we present the amendments and make us refer to an idea that we have defended not only in this legislation, but also in the previous legislation, about the need to explore the existence of public shops. We knew the ideological differences with this House's majority group and, of course, with the Galician Union, and we understood that it would be difficult to discuss them. However, the possibility of discussion has not even been met, when there is no legal element in our legislative code that prevents this element, and not even its prospect. We also understood that it was a positive element, given that the text actually regulates primary-care pharmacies services and that the proposal we made from our group was the link to those services. In fact, I think it is in line with what the Ministry has just approved in relation to the apparent specialization of the pharmacy in relation to primary care, and if we have any differences in this aspect, we think it is worth addressing this element as well. For us, it's an important element, and we don't understand why we have to stick only to companies in this case - despite having a public service condition - that they offer that service in our country. However, and in spite of that, I say, we understood that this was the aspect that would generate more difficulty on the part of the majority group, but there are many others who should not produce such difficulty, and I am going to refer to an element that was important to us, which was to address, at least in the past, what is going on with the difficulties - that they are obviously not unique in our autonomous community, but they exist in the whole of Spain - in relation to the supply of drugs. The rule - and therefore we referred - does not speak in any case of this problem, which affects both the shops themselves and, of course, the public network centres, and which is an increasingly common element, as the health authorities themselves have acknowledged, and even in the Commission 5th the Health Council itself has acknowledged this element. We propose - yes, obviously not as an element that fully solved this situation - the need for the creation of the public pharmacy laboratory, not only as an element related to this aspect, but also with the necessary investment in research and development by the Health Council. Each year we discuss budgets of the Galician Union that are absolutely poor about research and R+D+i for the production of drugs, which also affect all those who do not have after, surely, an important cost and benefit because they are not for very common diseases, and that obviously makes it very difficult for professionals, that researchers and researchers, to be able to devote themselves to this element. In this sense, we propose the constitution of the laboratory, and yet there was not even the will to start talking about this element, which I say, we present every year in the amendments to the budgets. Even smaller aspects have not been taken into account when approving the amendments. One of them is what has to do with the clarification of that drug production in the radiopharmacy. I mean, it's not accepted for global, yes for radiopharmacy, but, I insist, we have tabled an amendment, which to number 17, to clarify where these drugs are going to be provided for public centers. There is no relationship. We asked for this particular at a meeting of the manager of the Galician Health Service, and within that meeting we were told that they were expected to be the public health centers themselves who worked producing these drugs that used their own centers in their testing activities in this case. However, it does not appear contained in the law and neither did it accept the amendment; we do not understand what the problem is. But, without stopping in those aspects, and for me to give time to make reference to what seemed to be more relevant aspects, for us there were two elements that were very important and that were not even observed, and of course it seems to us a disgrace that a law of pharmaceutical management does not meet the difficulty of therapeutic adherence to the socio-economic problem of men and women in this country. I have to remember here that more than 600,000 people in Galicia are at risk of poverty or social exclusion, and that, according to the official CIS data, 100,000 Welsh people do not take drugs from the pharmacy offices because they have no money to pay them. That is a reality which is a social drama, which, of course, is a health problem and which has not been addressed in this norm. And let's be careful that we propose something as loose as it was to control it, and that that control that I'm sure the pharmacists and pharmacists are already doing, because if you know what drugs are being removed or not from those that are prescribed, if you can transfer and vehicularize to the rest of primary care professionals, both in medicine and in nursing, who are doing the following or have more common contact with these people, so that the appropriate decisions are made, as could be derived from a professional who addresses the social issue within primary care teams or within their own relationships with other social work professionals, because it's a serious problem in our country, and it doesn't seem a minor issue because it is also a matter of compliance with article 10 of the General Health Law. I have to say here that the data that some NGOs provide in relation to pharmaceutical poverty are absolutely chilling. 20% of people in pharmaceutical poverty are under sixteen years of age in the country as a whole, and especially with an impact on people over fifty years of age, of course, as all lords can suppose, for the greatest increase in drug use in this case. It's a problem they define as chronic and embarrassing problem. In the case of Galicia, drug banks are already being created in the face of lack of therapeutic adherence to economic and social problems. This reality has been brought here since the approval of Royal Decree 16/2012 and the exclusion of several drugs from the portfolio, drugs that subsequently rose in some cases to 200% their selling price to the public. It has been repeatedly denied by the Health Council, both in the former Government of the People's Party and in this Government of the People's Party, and it is a reality that, the content of the data provided in an official manner, is increasingly reproduced in this case. So it seems pretty amazing to us that when what you propose is simply a control and a derivation to Social Work, you don't even agree to introduce this element into the norm. We are very sorry that this is the case and we are asking for a reflection before the vote to be able to introduce this element, because it doesn't even involve spending on the Health Council and we don't understand how we don't want to address this issue. The next question that we also moved, which was important to us and that we didn't understand how we could maintain the law, has to do with our Amendment No 8, which calls for the deletion of Article 9 in relation to conscientious objection. This is a debate that we have already given in other rules and which I have already remembered here, as rapporteur of the law on the rights of terminally ill people that we have been vigilant since the previous legislation, and in which at that time we decided unanimously to remove all groups the objection of conscience, we did not understand how in a norm of this character we could maintain the objection of consciousness. I mean, something that is a collective right, which is contained -- I mean -- in the General Health Act, in article 10, as is access to drugs, can't be limited by an individual right; especially since in this case we're talking about, of course, business that, despite being private businesses, as I said earlier, have a public interest consideration, and therefore they do a public service that must be guaranteed to 100 percent. We have already said that it seemed very good to us that the People's Party accepted our amendment number 7, which speaks of the compliance in legislative matters of the norms relating to equality between women and men, and especially the Law on Sexual and Reproductive Health, but we understood that it was absolutely contradictory not to approve Amendment No. 8, because, at the end of the day, at least those we know, the only cases of conscientious objection we know, are largely related to the proportion of contraceptives, and therefore we seemed to us that accepting one of the amendments and not accepting another one, really the text becomes quite contradictory, because, in the end, if it is obliged to comply with some laws and at the same time facilitates its failure to comply with that article that allows conscientious objection. We also call for a revision before the vote so that this objection of conscience can be eliminated. We don't understand that in the 21st century, when we're talking about public service, if we allow it to be conditioned by an individual right. It is absolutely not understandable in this element. Then there are other elements that seem contradictory to us, such as not accepting our amendments regarding the prohibition of telemarketing. Furthermore, I suppose that in the future, the contents of the Law on the Guarantees and Rational Use of Medicine will also be revised, since it is being approved what has to do with that proportion of medicines for people who cannot move, and I think that generally quite limits the rule that is being dealt with here today. As far as the drug deposits are concerned in the socio-sanitary centres, we have already said in the full debate of the law that it seemed good to us that they related to the drugstores of Galician hospitals, but that there was a quite important element. There's an aging -- and in fact it was taking care of the press these days -- that's increasing use and spending on medical material; in pharmacy, but also in orthoprosthetic material, which also has a lot to do with the increase -- in some areas due to population aging -- of older residences. Many are residences of assisted persons, but there are also other residences and day centers. There are areas in which it is quite clear -- for example, in the vicinity of the Valdeorras Boat Hospital, but there would be a lot more cases -- there are a lot of larger residences, and we think this is good for us to do with the pharmacy in the hospitals, but it produces an increase in the workload that we understand that, in the case of residences that are not of the public network, it doesn't have to assume the public network. That is to say, as your lordships know, increasing the workload in this case is the need for more staff within the hospital pharmacy units, and it seems to us that for this we have residents who are being trained in the pharmacy in our country, it seems to us that this increase in staff, and very necessary, but we understand that this cost does not have to directly impact within the Public Administration, but in some way, in the case of private residences, we would have to review this element. I want to remember here that there were already problems with the coverage of health care personnel, mostly nursing and medicine, with regard to some residence where the law was not being complied with in the staffing to which they were required, and that, therefore, this caused a difficulty, because the people who reside in those centers had after moving to public health centers, and, of course, this gives rise to a certain workload in places where these older residences are found. We, though well agree with some content of the law, seem to us that the central issues that we raised within the amendments have not been addressed. We're going to wait to see what the majority group is doing, because I insist that there are elements that we knew would generate difficulty, but there are others that are absolutely basic and that should be contained in a law that addresses the whole of pharmaceutical rights in our country. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez-Vispo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, Counsellor, and good morning also for the presidents of the professional schools that accompany us today, representatives of the Galician Federation of Pharmacy Offices, and pharmacists who are with us today witnessing this debate. We are now in the final phase of the Galician Pharmaceutical Management Bill, which from now on, if this House considers it appropriate, will become law. If all the problems, Mrs. Prado, are the use of the language, if we call it a pharmacy, or we call it a pharmacy office, it shouldn't be very bad today's law. Before entering the content of the project, I would like to thank all the rapporteurs of the political groups present in the House for the work they have done; the climate of dialogue they have experienced in the presentation, taking into account, of course, the different points of view that we have and that our political groups have on the subject. But above all, I would like to thank all the speakers for their willingness to speak and for their willingness to hold the briefings. I do not want to forget, of course, the work done by the legal services of this House and the administrative services, which make our work so easy. Having said this, I am going to focus on the issue that we are dealing with today and to explain that the People's Parliamentary Group has voted in favour of the whole debate of this project in the May plenary session, presented by the Health Adviser, firstly, because it will serve to provide the pharmaceutical sector with a new regulation that is more suited to the times we are living in, so that it can address and provide a more effective solution to the current demands and needs of both pharmaceutical professionals and users. I think we all agreed that the previous regulation, which dates back to 1999, was not adapted to the circumstances we are living in today's Galician, demographic and technological. We believe that this law was necessary, precisely because of this evolution of the Greek society and also of health in the last 20 years, in which, for example, the hospital pharmaceutical benefit has increased in importance and also increased home hospitalization, the need for socio-health coordination, the pluripathologies associated with the ageing of the population, and above all the growing needs of the drugs dispensed at different levels of care. Some of the problems that this law aims to solve are that pharmaceutical management, for example, has more to do with general health management, so that prescription and dispensing of medicines is a continuous one for patients at different levels of care; and that, given the depopulation of rural areas of Galicia, a more flexible framework is established to ensure that people living in these areas have access to the drugs they need. We believe that all parliamentary groups were - as we said - aware of the need for renewal of this regulation, and on that line, precisely, if you put the Group of the People's Party to work, with two objectives. The first is to improve the text, with the premise that it is oriented towards regulating pharmaceutical care understood as a service of public interest, aimed at ensuring to the citizen the rapid, effective, timely, equitable and rational access to the medicines and health products he needs. Secondly, with a spirit of consensus and trying to reach the greatest possible agreements. There was an intense dialogue in the presentation to approach positions, especially with the group with which there was a greater affinity, which was the Socialist Group. It was very difficult, even if we tried, to approach positions with the En Marea group, because in many of the amendments they intend to attribute the development and dispensing of drugs to the State itself; that is to say, nationalize the pharmaceutical sector as a whole. They're views incompatible with our own, but I insist again that the dialogue was not lacking. The law that today is the subject of debate is structured into ten titles, a single additional provision, five transitions, a single derogation and two finals. The preliminary title defines its object and scope, and here precisely was the first deal with the Group of the Galician Nationalist Block and the Socialist Group. In fact, we accept or compromise thirty of the seventy socialist amendments; we are talking about integrating about 43% of the Socialist Group's proposals. In the case of other groups, thirteen BNG and two En Marea proposals were incorporated, some of particular relevance, such as the agreement with nationalists to make accessibility compulsory for persons with disabilities in the pharmaceutical offices of more than one plant; or the agreement with En Marea Group to regulate temporary transfers of pharmacy offices in the case of works at the main location. This law collects specific measures aimed at ensuring pharmaceutical care in rural areas which are not limited to the establishment of a proper population module, or the possibility of home delivery of medicines, but which takes a step further and provides for the installation and opening of attached shops in those cases where, if it is not possible to install a pharmacy office because of certain circumstances, such as the alienation or the difficult communication with the nearest pharmacy office, determines the need for this shop to be installed, so that it facilitates the access of this population to pharmaceutical care, and this situation we know that is relatively common in Galicia. The normative text introduces another novelty in this regard, and it is that the pharmacy offices that will have attached an attached shop to them in cases of difficult accessibility are indicated on the pharmaceutical map. Even so, in terms of transfers, it incorporates the possibility of limiting them when a serious damage to the pharmaceutical service is appreciated in the area where the pharmacy office is located, in particular in those nuclei where only the pharmacy office is established. As a novelty, we also find it important to highlight the special assumptions of delivery of medicines and health products, which for the first time are legislate, and enables that, in the case of users who are in isolated rural areas or are dependent, their medication and health products may be dispensed by one of the five pharmaceutical offices located in the residential pharmaceutical zone, where we have reached a transaction with the Socialist Group, or by express decision of the patient, by another pharmacy office of the same area of reference of the CAP. There is also the possibility that, at the place of residence of the user, those medicines whose dispensation is restricted to the hospital area may be delivered. Another important novelty is the modification of the calculation of pharmacy workshops. For example, in rural areas such as Galicia, which enjoy a low population density, this new rule guarantees a sufficient number of pharmacists according to their geographical characteristics, as well as the accessibility of the population to the pharmaceutical supply. So, otherwise, when the population increases, in the case of tourist resorts, this problem is made clear by the creation of the attached seasonal boutiques. The summons of a previous transfer contest are made for the first time, and it contains this law. Precisely, what it is to allow pharmacists who are in an area that is not the best for them, or who want to change the current location of that pharmacy, who can access another location, and later this competition of headlines or cotulators will be held next competition where all pharmacists will already be involved. Precisely, in this new contest, both the pharmacies that were free and were not covered in the previous contest as well as the new pharmacies will be collected; and this is precisely to favor - which is one of the glues that was put to this law - in some way the opening of the planning of the pharmacy offices. The limit used is ten years, precisely to promote pharmaceutical planning according to real needs, to contribute to the stability of the service, to avoid excessive rotation of pharmaceutical professionals and also to avoid the acquisition of purely speculative pharmacies. With these measures, it will be possible to adapt the pharmaceutical map to the actual and current needs of the population of Galicia. With regard to the disappearance of the alleged expiry of administrative authorisations for the fulfillment of seventy years of the holder, or also the need for authorization to appoint a resident pharmacist in retirement cases, in these cases additional attached pharmacists will be required. Here we come to a transaction with the Galego Nationalist Block, so the calculation is done by volume and activity of revenue. This measure seeks to serve as an impetus, precisely, to create and encourage the use of the attached pharmacists. Regarding the pharmaceutical care provided at primary care level and in hospitals and social assistance centres, the functions of the pharmacy services units are updated and the corresponding radiopharmaceutical units are collected in Title V of the law, which establishes the development of radiopharmaceutical medicinal products for human use, which will be adjusted to the regulations that regulate them, and also collects the types of units, as well as the person responsible for these units, which must be an optional specialist in radiopharmaceuticals. The amendments to the law tabled by the People's Group aim to contribute to enriching and improving the text of the law, such as the amendment to Article 58, which will give rise to a new article on pharmaceutical care in prisons, where it is said that prisons must establish pharmacy services or drug deposits, and the latter may be linked to the pharmacy services of other prisons or to public hospital pharmacy services, and the functions will be exactly the same as those of hospitals and health care centres. Or as well as the amendment to Article 36, which refers to transfer tenders, in the case of authorization from a new pharmacy office of reopening to a pharmacist who had already been a proprietor or a copyholder, and which allows the pharmacist to maintain the ownership of the pharmacy that he initially owned, in the case of being implicated in a judicial proceedings, until a firm judgment occurs, since otherwise the pharmacist remained without any title during the time of the judicial proceedings. As for the amendments tabled by the opposition groups, many have been accepted. The agreements with the Socialist Group are more numerous and are within the very beginning of the law, with a consensus on the establishment of the competences of the Autonomous Community in the field of health and the principles which must govern this action; or the amendments to Article 7 of the obligations of the provisions and services of pharmaceutical care; or the amendment of the En Marea Group, which gives rise to a new paragraph in the same Article 7, to respect the fulfilment of the Law on Sexual and Reproductive Health in all those affecting equality between women and men; or the amendments to Article 8 on the rights and obligations of citizens. Some of the amendments tabled by the opposition groups were not accepted. They were not accepted, for example, those submitted to articles which seek to regulate measures which are of State competence and therefore the Autonomous Community has no competence to do so; as well as others which have been presented and which could not be accepted because they are already collected in the State's basic legislation on health. I am referring, for example, to the amendments of the Group of the Nationalist and En Marea Bloc to articles 4 and 5, on the dispensation of medicinal products and health products in terms of the sale of medicinal products and medical products and prohibitions, which are already collected in the basic law; or to Amendment 58, tabled in Article 73 of the Socialist Group, on the work of the inspector, which is already collected in the Galician Health Act 8/2008. The final text collects amendments from all groups, and during the work of the presentation, as I said, some of them have been negotiated and important agreements have been reached, such as, for example, the regulation of the sale system from the inside to the outside at night; the user's right to the formulation of complaints and complaints, and the procedure to be given to him; the guaranteed regulation of the right to object of conscience or the transparency of appointments and guards; and of course also about the content and revisions that the pharmaceutical map should have. There were also agreements on the regulation of the drug dispensation system at home to chronic patients. We believe that these are important agreements that enrich the law. As we said, it is important that this law should be passed in this House, because the previous one did not meet the expectations we have in Greek society today. Nothing else in the first round of intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. Replica. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u44	First I'm going to stand up for the amendments that remain alive, those that have not been incorporated into the presentation. At the BNG we will vote in favour of both the Socialist Party and En Marea, because, in general terms, we refer to issues that we present, in some cases, and others that we agree with. We shall request a separate vote on Amendments Nos 26 and 31 of the Socialist Party. With regard to the joke made by the People's Party regarding the amendments tabled by the BNG and in which there has been no agreement, of course, we are concerned about German. The lack of consideration of our language seems to us to be a problem, because we want our language to be alive, extensive, useful, and particularly reflected in the rules that come out of this Parliament. But it is not, of course, the only element that we have said is that we have failed to accept it, because it seems to us to be really important and not minor issues. And I also said that questions were accepted that most of them were minor issues, because a text referring to pharmacy offices does not consider accessibility for people with functional diversity, of course, the BNG presented an amendment, and it would be quite rare that it was not accepted. I mean, they accepted questions from those that were very obvious that were errors contemplated by the law. But — I insist — we have tabled amendments to give concrete and security to the types of sales which must be prohibited, and she tells the honourable Member that they are aspects already collected in the Basic Law of the State. Yes, like hundreds who contemplate the law and do repeat them again. What happens is they don't want to be explicitly reflected in what type of sale should be prohibited. Well, they don't want to. They'll have to explain to you why they don't want it to be nested and clear. Or amends in the direction of the Administration to make decisions in the case of transmission and other pharmacy offices, shops; that the Administration has more capacity to decide. Well, it doesn't seem like a minor issue to us either, and it's also the People's Party who has to explain why not. Or that you don't see temporary horizons to call contests or call transfers. So to leave the government's hand of shift, in a discreet way, to do certain things, just as to leave too many aspects to further development, that is to leave many aspects to the arbitraryness of whether they regulate themselves or not, or when they do it. It seems to us that in a law it should be more concrete. And we're worried that the door will be left open to pharmaceutical exclusion. We're very concerned that in this law it is very open that vast territories in our country can be left without a pharmacy office, without a pharmacy, it seems to us a problem. It really seems to us a problem that we don't even want to see that at least in every county there must be one, and they didn't even want to consider that question. Or the subject of conscientious objection. I insist that the BNG seems very worrying to us that the right to conscientious objection is reflected in this law, when we are talking about a public service, even if it is lent by private companies. Freedom and time flexibility seem to us to be a problem; we believe it must be considered. That planning is done on the basis of criteria of demand and not on the basis of the needs of the population also seems to us to be a problem. They broaden the competences of pharmacists and pharmacists in terms of their ability to be health agents, and they worry that they are not established as, when and how they will be coordinated with primary care; who will correspond to that coordination; or who will not extend the competences of primary public care pharmacists and pharmacists, established in the health centres, and whether they are extended to those of the pharmacy offices, and then remain everything in limbo. For all these reasons, BNG is going to abstain from this vote, because we believe that, of course, it is a missed opportunity to regulate aspects that it does not contemplate and for others who contemplate to regulate themselves in a way far more nihdily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u46	Thank you, President. From our point of view, we have clarified through this debate the positions we had, of course, since the previous debates, and we reaffirm ourselves in our position that it is a law that loses an opportunity. We had the opportunity to wake up or make progress on some issues that were not dealt with, and in which this law does not enter voluntarily, explicitly - you have to say - because you probably do not want it or because it is not the will of the Government and the majority group to get into some matters. The result of this debate is that there are some amendments, of their own and of the other groups, which we would like to mention. It's not possible to go one at a time, but if we're going to have a separate vote. Most of us will be shown in favour of the amendments to the opposition, but there are some in which we will abstain, because we would be willing not to agree exactly with what they propose, but if we were willing that this debate could have been opened, and to explain some questions. We believe that it would have been necessary to go deeper in the debate on conscientious objection. It is a space where we present our amendment — which has not been accepted — and the other opposition groups have also submitted. We believe it was possible to have sunk a little further, and voluntarily did not touch it. There's a space about some influences on the conscientious objection that remain very anchored and should be resolved; in addition, the vast majority of citizenship understands that they should be resolved, and we believe that we would have to sink on it. There is some amendment, specifically some of the Marea Group, about the control of adherence and the existence of reports and information on the implementation and control of treatments, as you have well explained here, that we believe it was a very interesting opportunity to resolve some doubts about which we often even discussed here whether or not they exist. There are realities that are discussed here whether or not they exist, when reality is obvious and all the data tells us that there is, and there is inability on the part of many people to follow complete treatment for not being able to pay for some drugs. So that reality that exists, that comes in existence, and that is the fruit of many continuous policies, we could have it solved, because that would also help to have a more general view of the pharmaceutical issue in Galicia and to be able to have some specific position to solve it. There are some issues in which we are going to vote in favour, which — as I said — are not going to go into depth and which are enriching. On some occasions they explain obviations and things that are dealt with, of course, in other legal spaces, but which must be explained here because, as was well exposed also by the BNG spokesman, some issues that are in other laws come to this, and some issues that are in other laws do not come to this, and that difference of criterion is that there are some issues that are wanted to be explained and others that are better not to explain because the more diffuse they are, the easier there are to find some cracks. There are some who deserve some particularity from our band. We believe in the need to debate. We do not share the amendment that was explicitly presented about the public pharmacy office, but there is a path that is open to a debate, as it has been commented, and even from other administrations are valuing similar issues. It would have been interesting for us to open that debate, and this was the time to open it. That there was no debate, for us it is not a good data, and at that point we believe it would be appropriate to open it. So we think it was a good job and we lost a chance. We were talking earlier about the need to regulate not only excess, but the absence of. There's some amendment we're going to abstain from, like, the obligation to train by the Town Hall proposed by the nationalist group. We did not explicitly share it, but yes - as I mentioned earlier - we believe it was important that this opportunity should be opened up and that we would be able to discuss it. It's not our solution, but it's a proposal for a solution on an empty topic. In short, there are debates that haven't opened, it's a missed opportunity. We have shared some questions about the analysis of previous laws. If we brought here debates of previous laws, now listening to the fact that valuation is of the need to reformulate them, then we're also taking note of things that have already been said and we've been late for 20 years in some matters. The truth is, some of the non-changers have had arguments like, "they're already in other laws," something about which I've already explained our position; or something very curious, that "they've always done so," which for us is not an argument. That it always does in a way doesn't mean that it does well; and it can be said even that it has always done so, and it was well, but it is necessary to change, because reality -- as it was said here by the popular spokesman -- is changing and, therefore, legislation needs to be adapted. We thought this was a good opportunity. In spite of everything - as we have said - the regulated, little by little, is regulated in a satisfactory way. We will therefore support the law, but we believe that our position on the other amendments opens up our aspiration that it might be a good opportunity to broaden the debate, and therefore we will express it explicitly in those amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u47	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u48	Thank you, President. As a general rule, we will support the amendments tabled by the other opposition groups. Those of the People's Party are already included in the text. We also ask - we have asked for - the separate vote of Amendment No 26 from the Socialist Party because we have doubts about the content of that amendment. It seems to us that it could be more conducive to the liberalisation of pharmacies, not the reverse, and therefore we have no agreement. With the others generally, with some differences, as we have seen here, we agree on the global issue and, in fact, we have already said in the debate held in the commission that we had some amendment in relation to what we have to do with the contest and the Nationalist Block Galego, however, has some amendment in relation to the transmission of pharmacies. If it seemed to us an important element to address the difficulty that those titrated and titrated have that they don't have a person in their family than to inherit a shop in this case, a pharmacy, which have much more difficulty in accessing the possibility of hosting some of them or at least electing, in this sense, equally with the rest of the professionals who already have or who can inherit a boutique. In this case, there is one element that will have to be addressed at some point, if not at the moment. We have already said that we generally agree with some of the aspects that regulate the law. It seems to us that some elements have been corrected that have been discussed in other autonomous communities, which have caused a lot of difficulties among professionals, and in that sense we feel that the law partially satisfies some of these issues in relation to the competences in pharmaceutical matters; but, however, I have to regret, especially with regard to the topic of controlling therapeutic adherence, also in the rest of the elements that we have raised, because — I insist — there is no legal element that prevents the creation of a public laboratory. We understand that it is an element that is there and would also favour research in our country. It requires an important investment, we are aware of the economic reality in that sense, but we understand that it was important to start exploring, and it wasn't even taken into account, like other elements. There were two that seemed to us very easy, very easy to accept, even by the majority group. One was the control of therapeutic adherence. We will, of course, re-emphasis on this subject outside the debate of this law. It seems to us a barbarity that after seven years of the approval of Royal Decree 16/2012 this question was not accepted. So far it has been denied, and now that there seems to be acceptance of a reality that is common, of course, to the whole of Spain, but that Galicia has specific particularities, you cannot introduce a minimal element of control and transfer to social work professionals. We understand that this is an important element. There are 100,000 people, according to official data, who don't take the drugs away from their pharmacy, and the Public Administration has to take care of, yes or yes, of addressing this issue. Seven years later we cannot continue to deny this reality, because it is also very related in our country to an element that is apophobia, which has to be addressed cross-sectionally in all laws that refer to the rights of citizenship. Nor do we understand — I insist — it was an easy element to accept — what it has to do with conscientious objection. It seems contradictory to us that one amendment is accepted and the other one is not, because, I say, if there is some kind of contradiction at some point or some person denounces a breach of access to the pharmacy, one article will be contradicted with another, and therefore it is not very positive in the matter of legal security. As for the elements that transferred the spokesperson for the People's Parliamentary Group which are already contained in other rules, the General Health Act or the Law on the Rational Use of Medicine, regardless of the principle of regulatory hierarchy, which obviously applies in the event of a discrepancy or an element that can be denounced in relation to the fulfilment of a right, it provides much more legal certainty that there are elements that are recontained in the autonomous standard. In this case, I'm referring to the forms of sale of medicines. We don't understand that telematics can't be limited. In fact, if you pay attention to the media, there were already some media that made a rather undisputed interpretation, very different from the one that transfers the parliamentary group, about whether the telematics sale of products and drugs is going to be allowed that does not even allow the state's basic standard. So it should be clarified, and it's an element that provided legal certainty. I insist, we don't understand why we have to wait for the adoption of later regulations to see where it will be produced and how radiopharmaceuticals will be provided in our country. Nor do we understand that the norm cannot clarify how it will satisfy the possibility that a private company, such as a private largest residence in this case, or concerted, may elect as a reference center for drug storage a public hospital; that is, it is not clarified in the norm. We -- there is no more time left -- what we're going to do is abstain from the processing of this law because, I say, there are elements that seem not to be wrong, but unfortunately, there are no elements that seem important to us to understand that this rule should be something more than regulation of the operation and transmission of the shops.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez-Vispo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u50	Thank you very much, President. It is true that we have just heard some objections to the law in which we certainly do not have the same points of view. I'll try to talk about some of them. For example, we're talking about controlling therapeutic adherence, related to low economic resources. We all know that the relationship with pharmaceutical approaches is the responsibility of the State. I, of course, wish, Mr. Torrado, that the Government in Madrid of the Socialist Group solves this problem, we would all be delighted. But besides that, it is true that this lack of therapeutic adherence can be due to multiple causes. We have to keep in mind that it has to be interpreted from its importance related to each pathology and to each type of medication. It's not worth giving a global figure, because that doesn't indicate any situation that we can accurately and seriously analyze. Within the competences we have in Galicia, the text itself includes several articles related to the follow-up functions of therapeutic adherence: in Articles 12 (f) 53 (e) and 56 (d) Among the functions, e.g. primary care pharmacies units, containsplass to improve therapeutic adherence, the same in hospital pharmacies and social assistance centres, ensuring, precisely, that treatment adherence is adequate and improved and that users also contribute to a better health result from the use of medicines. With regard to the other subject which has been discussed here, the objection of conscience, it is a subject of what we are discussing enough in the presentation. The objection of conscience, Mrs. Solla, is a right of professionals, it is a right that cannot be obvious, that is, provided it does not limit the citizen's right to access a medicine or health product. This is precisely the content of Article 9: "The Health Administration will ensure that the right to conscientious objection by pharmacists and professionals does not limit or conditions the right to citizenship's health." Moreover, Mr. Torrado, this objection of conscience is settled as you ask, as the Socialist Group requests, in its amendment. So we don't see the problem on this subject. As for the amendment tabled by the En Marea Group on public pharmacy offices, we obviously do not agree on this. State regulation is clear on this, and there is not a single autonomous community that has done so, because it is not possible, as it is regulated today in the state. But what is possible, and that's what you did in this law, is that as private institutions of public interest have a regulation that allows good distribution in the community, good coordination with the public network and also equity in your access, Mrs Prado. Here's equity, in access to medicines. In short, everything that allows you to access pharmaceutical services in good condition. The accessibility theme. The accessibility to the drugs of the Galician population, fortunately, is fantastic because we have a wide network of pharmacy offices, and this text, in addition, ensures that it is maintained and adapted to current needs, because it regulates primary care pharmacy units and hospital pharmaceutical services, and they all try to coordinate with public health centres and services, so that any prescription of an optional can be dispensed in an axile service or pharmaceutical establishment. In addition, on the pharmaceutical map - which is a topic that also concerns the Nationalist Block Galego - there will be at least one pharmacy for the municipality, understanding that the municipality is the same as the pharmaceutical zone. And in cases where you can close that pharmacy office at any moment, you automatically use the adjacent emergency shop, with which the population of Galicia will never be without a pharmaceutical service. With regard to the issue of deforestation, we have often spoken here that it is the responsibility of AEMPS, and Galicia, the Autonomous Community of Galicia, is the first to come forward to work on that state guarantee plan. I'll give you the glove again, Mr. Torrado, so you can convince the central government to solve this issue. And to finish, because I'm running out of time, to tell you that since the People's Group we've been pleased with the text we've reached. The law has 80 articles. Of them, 33 had no amendment to the opposition. In the other 23, different amendments from the different groups were incorporated. That is, a total of 56 articles, which is 70% of the law, have a wording with which it conforms to one or more opposition groups, in addition to the majority group. We hope that you will have the majority support of this chamber and that the abstentions can become a vote in favour of this law, because it will really provide an opportunity to improve the current law that needs this adaptation that will allow you to continue to pay good pharmaceutical attention to the health devices of our community. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. After the debate on the legislative texts was closed, we proceeded to vote on them. Close the doors, please. We begin by voting on the amendment to the whole, of return, submitted to the draft law of the natural heritage of Galicia. In this case, we are voting on the amendment of the En Marea Parliamentary Group. (Doc. # 51098) Voting the amendment to the whole, return, G.P. de En Marea, presented to the draft law of the natural heritage of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour; 17 votes in favour; 40 votes against; 11 abstentions. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected as a whole. The bill continues its parliamentary process.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u52	We are now voting on amendments to the dictatorship issued by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, on the draft legislation on pharmaceutical management in Galicia. First of all, we voted for amendments by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. The Socialist Parliamentary Group requests that the following amendments be voted on separately: 14, 15, 25, 37, 39, 50 and 51. First of all, we voted on these amendments which I said were to be voted on separately. We vote. Amendment Nos 14, 15, 25, 37, 39, 50 and 51 G.P. from the Galician Nationalist Block to the Galician Pharmaceutical Management Bill, not incorporated into the commission's dictation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour; 17 votes in favour; 40 votes against; 11 abstentions. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u53	We now vote for the rest of the amendments of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Voting G.P. amendments. from the Galician Nationalist Block to the Galician Pharmaceutical Management Bill, except those already voted, not incorporated into the commission's dictation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 28; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u54	We now vote on the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The Galego Nationalist Bloc Parliamentary Group calls for a separate vote of 26 and 31 and the En Marea Parliamentary Group of 26 of the Galician Socialist Group. We therefore vote first of all on Amendment No 26. Vote of Amendment No 26 to the G.P. of the Galician Socialists to the Galician Pharmaceutical Management Bill, not incorporated into the commission's dictatorship. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 11; votes against, 57. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u55	We now vote on Amendment No 31. Vote on Amendment No 31 to the G.P. of the Galician Socialists to the Galician Pharmaceutical Management Bill, not incorporated into the commission's dictatorship. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 11; votes against, 46; abstentions, 11. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u56	We now vote for the rest of the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Voting G.P. amendments. from Galician Socialists to the Galician Pharmaceutical Management Bill, except those already voted, not incorporated into the commission's dictatorship. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 28; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u57	We are now voting on amendments to the Parlia­mentary Group on the Environment. Requests the Socialist Parliamentary Group to separate Amendments 1, 3, 5, 9, 10, 12, 13 and 17 to 22. We vote. Vote for Amendments Nos 1, 3, 5, 9, 10, 12, 13 and 17 to 22 G.P. In Marea, to the draft law on pharmaceutical management of Galicia, not incorporated into the commission's dictation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 17 votes against, 40; abstentions, 11. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u58	We are now voting on the rest of the amendments of the En Marea Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. From Marea to the Galician Pharmaceutical Management Bill, except those already voted, not incorporated into the commission's dictation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 28; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u59	Finally, we voted on the committee's statement. Ditame's vote, drawn up by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, on the draft law on pharmaceutical management in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 53; abstentions, 17. The voting is positive. This measure is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u60	The vote was taken, the dictatorship was approved and, therefore, the Law on Pharmaceutical Management of Galicia was passed. Open the doors, please. Now we continue with the third point of the agenda, motions. G.P. motion. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández and D. Luis Villares Naveira, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the non-structural waiting lists of Sergas and the staff policy of the Health Council
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u61	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion you have the word to Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. Now the health adviser was leaving. It's good that you're in the pharmacy law debate, but it would also be nice if you stayed when we were going to talk about closing your beds. Unfortunately, we had a debate in the previous plenary session, in an interpellation, in which once again a data was denied, constituting a breach of several laws, including the right contained in the Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia, but also in the Constitution itself, which have public offices to exercise their autonomy as public offices. Unfortunately, one of the elements we have come to request today in this motion is that we comply with requests for information in the light of Article 9 of the Rules of the House regarding the non-structural lists of the Galician Health Service. It is a fairly regrettable situation that, two and a half years after having registered a request for this data, which is repeated, because in the previous legislation I myself requested the same data and in four years were not answered, the Council of Health, in this case, continued without providing an element which is essential for the work of the Members of this House, and in connection with this element we also request this motion to inform the rest of the health spokespersons of the Galician Parliament of the data on the non-structural waiting lists of the Galician Health Service. In the past full, I would ask myself here, or I would ask the Health Counsellor — who was now going to fail to attend this motion — if we were going to have to resort to ordinary justice, as has already happened with another non-response of an information request to the author of article 9, in the case of our group, because it is not normal that requests made in a lawful and correct manner are not being answered and that have been carried forward by vigilantes since the virtually beginning of the legislation without being answered. And data from non-structural waiting lists are absolutely essential to assess vacation coverage in the summer months, at any time of the year. But also in the summer months, within the Galego Health Service. I mean, there's a systematic way of operating at the Health Council: every year they close services, they close hospital beds, they don't cover themselves, and on several occasions we've also asked, the last one in the full past, about the personal coverage data that might be given in each category, we've asked by EOXI and once you've answered, this last time they haven't responded and they never obey a typology-related planning or seasonality of some diseases. And I have to remember here that a fairly used element by the Health Council in the planning of services is to move that there are fewer diseases and, above all, fewer diseases related to respiratory equipment in the summer months and that, precisely, some services are closed. The reality is that every year they are changing, as we have moved on many occasions, the services that are being cancelled, that are being closed, in the different EOXI in their hospital centers, and therefore there is no planning that obeys to a need for care related to scientific evidence in relation to the incidence and prevalence of diseases. So there's no kind of argument to be supported, in that sense, by the Health Council. But besides -- we've already moved it in the previous debate -- there's a problem that's there, so we're asking for non-structural waiting lists, and it's just that ordinary waiting lists don't provide very favourable data on some elements, some type of intervention, some type of test, but as trade union power stations are moved on many occasions, we understand that in many EOXI they could even triple reality, with non-structural waiting lists, the ones that we've got watchers. Which makes it even less understandable that during the summer months units are being closed and, of course, programmable interventions and programmable tests are not being scheduled that could relieve waiting lists. There's a vice also quite common to transfer that there are no professionals to cover some specialties. However, we don't do it today, but every time we ask that we also clarify what these specialties are and in which centers have trouble covering, it doesn't answer either. What a coincidence, you never give the data you're asking for on this camera! As you will understand, it is very difficult to do the work of Members and Members, and later by the Health Council if you move us to lie, that we have no real data, or that we do not even need all the open services or all the beds, without providing the data that is being provided. So there's a debate going on. We also ask you to undertake not to close any beds or services while there are these waiting lists, proceeding the opening of plants and inoperative wings permanently, providing them with medical personnel. And I insist, there are staff to cover many of these units, and not in all of them, or there should be no shortage of professionals. It's not specified, it's never explained, by the Health Council, an absolutely incomprehensible element. I've already said here, in the previous interpellation, that this was also very related to the precariousness of work and to an element that denounces professionals. They're denouncing those who now seem to be the President of the Board who wants to hear. I mean, they only mobilize when there is a problem, and in this case, the mobilization of nurses and nurses in our country seems to be causing some concern within the Health Council. When they open very punctuously, the units that are closed structurally, or even closed for four or five months, these units are covered by potential personnel. This does not facilitate the maintenance of care continuity and, of course, quality in services. I mean, the normal thing would be that these units were open whenever there was a need for use, and having waiting lists cannot be understood how that element is not facilitated. In fact, they were denounced in the months of December, because they are now also closing units during Christmas. That reality that exists, and which is evident, is also very related to another element that we propose in this motion, which is the need to progressively recover the amortized squares, both in primary and hospital care. And I think it was exciting, or this week, the accused manager of the Vigo area made very unfortunate statements about the claims of primary care professionals. Mr. Rubial said that, with ten minutes per patient, the waiting lists would be three and a half months in primary care, and that it was therefore not feasible. It is clear that when one claims the need to pay good attention, and that professionals have time, what comes out is the monetary issue. They can't be covered because we don't want to cover, and we've transferred the responsibility to the professionals that there would be waiting list in primary care, when the only waiting list -- by the way, usually denied by the Health Council and by the People's Party Group in Commission 5a -- that list of primary care, that list of waiting list that exists, of seven days, and even ten days in some health centres, is related to the depreciation of squares that have been produced in primary care in recent years. Staff cuts in all services have a later impact -- I think we've already discussed it on other occasions -- in emergency services, both at the continuing points of attention -- by the way, nine months off -- as in hospitals themselves. In the end, everything is interrelated, and the situation of health services in the summer months, of course, is not optimal. It's not great to have, as workers from some center report how it can be in Lugo, more than five specialties in the same unit, by the custom of the Galician Health Service to close units. Of course, it doesn't facilitate care continuity; it makes work very difficult; it doesn't, of course, fosters organization within the centers, but it doesn't work either with regard to reducing the risk of social illness. By the way, I also take advantage of this intervention to report that the request for information in the course of article 9 regarding data on nosocomial diseases, which we asked because professionals told us that in some units there were increasing diseases due to staff cuts, neither did they respond. It has already happened – where it goes, months ago! – the month of the request, and this is a reality that this chamber has to address at some point: the legal breach in the matter of obligation of the Galician Council to provide information that Members and Members are asking to do their work. To be honest, ladies and gentlemen, that we have to be bringing this issue here every year, it indicates the null interest that the Council of Galicia has in reducing the waiting lists in our country, in having a transparent health administration, and in promoting quality employment. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u63	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. We're going through the intervention of the groups. By the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado Cores has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u64	In fact, the BNG also shows its concern about the health coverage offered to the Welsh people in general, and in the summer in particular. In the past, too, we asked the advisor about this situation, and once again he hid behind that mantra that the resources are planned and the assistance is guaranteed. Lies. It's a constantly repeated lie! Neither the resources are planned, nor the assistance is guaranteed. Year after year, the People's Party in the Government of the United States closes an abusive number of beds in the Greek hospital, and they do it in addition without planning with the professionals who are affected by this whole issue. Today, there are still places where they are not very clear what the situation is going to be, with a total lack of communication, in many cases simply verbal and in other cases at the last hour. Of course, at the BNG we think they're abusive closures and there's no criterion for them, because, if there were any criteria, hospitals would close the same services every year and a number of similar beds, but we found that one year closes urology, the next year closes internal medicine, that is, they're rotating those closures, which do not correspond to a really care criterion. Bed closure has very serious consequences in the area of care, of course, because this decision means difficulty in accessing health benefits by the population; paralysing surgical activity in many cases or a very important slowdown; overloading work; mixing patients with different pathologies in many plants, which is a cause of concern because this leads to an increase in the risk of infections. Getting into plants that are not of the specialty makes it difficult for professionals to pay attention and makes it difficult for them to have to walk behind them, for example, by the optional staff, who have to walk on a plant to visit their patients. Of course, it's not at all an optimal situation, no less. It increases the waiting list from which we are informed, but soon it would be all expected from what we are not informed of, the non-structural lists; more pressure on primary care, on health centres and on CAPs, and saturation of hospital emergency services, because despite this official speech, people continue to get sick in the summer, and if primary care is not responding to the demand because they close in late hours, because they do not replace professionals, it turns out that the population has to go somewhere and they end up going to emergency services. Then there's also a derivative, which is the field of work. There's a lot of pressure on professionals to do the same job a smaller number of people, and it increases health unemployment. The official speech says there are no substitutes professionals and then we find that the recruitment lists if they have a very important number of people who can make these substitutions. In nursing, in TCAE, in janitors, in radio technician personnel, in lab staff, if there are staff in the recruitment lists to be able to make replacements for the staff, which, of course, is entitled to their vacations. There is an increase in private derivation, and we see that closing of beds always affects public health, that in summer private health does not close beds, does not reduce staff and does not close beds, with which it is evident that communicating vessels are produced between health and other. We see that in public health over the last ten years, more than seven hundred beds have been reduced, and it turns out that in private health the number of beds has increased. I think it's obvious. Anyone who wants to see it and doesn't want to fool us with other kinds of ads, can see what the situation is. We keep listening to the lady who's going down the care line. In many cases it can be found that this is not the case, especially in coastal areas or in areas where tourism flows do not lower the aid activity. Of course, if they close their beds and close their surgeries, there's no, lower demand, of course. Closed beds, surgical ones that are not doing business, there's less demand.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u65	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u66	And then that lower demand goes to tell them next year that they do the calculation on the basis of an aid demand that you least cheat on. So we are going to support this initiative that you are presenting today in Marea and, of course, we will continue to bring here the real X-ray of which is public health in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u67	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Mr Torrido Quintela has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u68	Thank you, President. Again we are going to have a debate on waiting lists, which we have been dealing with since the Socialist Group, as it has always been known in this Parliament, about the problem of staff in the health system. To enter, we're going to give some brief data of what exists, because it's true, as it has already been transmitted here, that it's impossible to obtain data from the Health Council. We have the Council and the PP, but we don't have the rest of the parliamentary groups. Usually we're accused of being here without data. No, we've seen the ones that exist, that are many, and I contradict the Government of Unity. And we've seen here without the official data of the Board because they don't exist, or at least they don't make it easy, as has been shown here by the spokesman of En Marea, who since the Government of the Board has been constantly violating Parliament's Rules of Procedure. By the way, surprisingly, without Parliament saying anything, but that is another debate, which Parliament accepts as the Government of the Union tore in this way. CIS health barometer. You wait less than fifteen days declared by the patients. We can have a very good example of what we often talk about here, which is Euskadi's health system, about 30% of patients say that their waiting for hospital appointment is less than fifteen days to see a specialist; more than 30%. Andalucia is 17.7%, since it was a community often mentioned here. The average of Spain is at 20%. Galicia 11%. We're in half the average of Spain in consultations that take place in less than fifteen days with the experts. Let's go the other way, the ones that wait more than six months. The average of Spain is 7%, the average of Spain is waiting for more than six months. In Euskadi 2.5%, in Andalusia 3.7%, below the average. I remember, the average of Spain is 7%, and in Galicia 13.5%; 13.5% of the Greeks it takes more than six months to wait with the experts. Of course we'll see he'll tell the PP that it's a lie. Even those citizens who have waited for more than six months will tell them that it is a lie, that they can't tell time, or that calendars are bad or something, or that citizens, when asked in polls, lie, because no one can argue with the People's Party, who always has the truth; you don't know where it comes from, but always has it. That's how they look, I have the truth because the data says so. And where do the data come from? Oh, no one knows! But they're very good. We also have a double problem. Not that there are such waiting lists in Galicia, but they are denied. Here, in this Parliament, I myself, representing my Socialist Group, have brought explicit quotations and 11 months of waiting, 13 months of waiting, 15 months of waiting for specialists in various hospitals in Galicia. We're always told they're anecdotes. They're anecdotes, but there are dozens, hundreds of anecdotes, anecdotes of thirteen months or fourteen months to see with cardiology specialists. People who may have some heart problems and have a wait of thirteen, fourteen, fifteen months to see a specialist. An older person, what are you going to do? Probably, if you can, go to private, and if you can't, wait more than a year for a problem that may be serious to you. Where's the problem? In the lack of staff. We have a staff problem in the health system. The exploitative attitude of the Galician Union with its staff is the main cause of loss of quality. Exploiting cuts and attitudes that cause us to have a greater shortage of professionals. It has often been promised to extend some hospitals. Sometimes, late, a part was fulfilled; late and only a part was fulfilled. I'm going to quote my reference hospital, which is the Salnés Hospital, where the surgeons have expanded. Oh, but he didn't get more personal! What happened? They don't open them. There were the unopened surgeries for more than a year and more than two years. Why? Because if you do more surgery but no more staff, no one can handle it. This would seem to be common sense, but no, it's not that common sense because it was done that way. By the way, years of waiting to expand those surgeries and they were still barely open. We have a precarious problem, so there are strikes! Justice judgments against Sergas because of precariousness, judicial judgments! I don't know what else has to happen in this country to get them to understand from the People's Party that the public health professionals are subject to unsustainable harassment, and they're causing a health problem because of that attitude. We have a problem that also stemmed from the loss of the care area of some comarcal hospitals, that great solution for everything that no one has ever spoken again from the Government of the Union because, of course, it has caused a problem. As a curiosity, they pick up the areas that you have eliminated with the Health Act, analyze your election results there, and you can verify that citizenship, as you say many times, knows well what you're talking about and knows they're taking away services from you. When we put together a cropping system, you can eventually cut.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u69	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u70	What we're proposing is a system to grow. We have a staff problem, it will solve the health system problem of waiting lists, and we will also contribute to a Galician Union that is a little more transparent to having all the same data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. Mr Núñez Centeno speaks for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u72	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. You present, Mrs Solla, the annual motion on waiting lists, this time adapted to the subject of closing beds and recovering squares, supposedly amortized, both in primary and hospital. With regard to these questions added, repeat the statement in previous debates: Sergas has a summer planning — like every year and like all health services — that includes operating a sufficient number of beds in anticipation of the needs of previous years and with a supplement to a percentage of them that cover any eventuality, and also with the possibility of operating them if exceptional circumstances so needed. You take advantage of yourself, as well, to do works or improvements in hospital services that need to be unemployed for them. He indicated to the counsellor in the inquiry that in the summer of last year 2018 there was an average occupation of hospital beds of 75.77 percent, being enabled eighty-eight percent, and announced, in addition, that this year would be 88.3 percent. As far as the squares are concerned, Galicia has called all these years OPE up to a total of 6,000 squares and the Council has signed a stabilisation plan with the union centres to achieve an eventuality of five percent by 2020. But look: you, Mrs Solla, have very good relations with Mr Sánchez and they intend to enter your future government; I don't know whether as preferred parliamentary partners or as a government of cooperation. I don't know. But look: they comply with your program and eliminate the restorative rate in public health, although they had forgotten it in the 2019 Budget Project, which they signed with Mr. Sánchez, where they were talking about local government or universities, but for no public health. If you eliminate the said rate, it will be possible to increase the squares by complying with the law. So let's talk about the waiting lists. The German Government complies with the law and publishes the data contained in Decree 605/2003, which has not been modified by any subsequent Government. Make the data in the structural waiting list public every six months, as provided for in the decree. Non-structural waiting lists — as you know — include patients who, in transitory terms, cannot be programmed, either on their own initiative, on health grounds or by refusing to go to a concerted centre. In any case, no patient loses his or her rights, programming when medical or personal circumstances return or reprogramming in the public reference hospital. In addition, in Galicia we have the decree of maximum times in force which guarantees, with an individual commitment, attention to the processes included in it, programmed and non-emergency, a maximum time of sixty days for surgery and of forty-five days for first consultations, diagnostic or therapeutic tests. As Mr. Counselor said, we're not talking about half-expectations, but about strictly individual deadlines, for people. And here I wanted to highlight another of his repeated fallacies to satiety in this parliament. That law of guarantees, according to you privatiser, made to favor friendly health companies, did not perform a single intervention or proof in private health. One hundred percent of the processes under guarantee were attended in public centers of Welsh health. And I suppose that's why you wouldn't repeat the first point of the motion similar to that one that presented last year and that made reference to this subject. We are not going to repeat that spending on concerted health activities was greater in the years of the Bipartite than with the current Government. Ladies and gentlemen, in Galicia the half-surgery waiter was last year, 61.6 days, the best numbers since there are records. We are the fourth autonomous community with better surgical waiting times and in diagnostic tests we are also among the best in Spain. In all cases, the care activity has increased, both in consultation and in surgery; in that health service, the opposition is constantly rising and, according to its claims about it, seems to belong to a Third World country. With regard to data provided by other autonomous communities, what happens in other autonomous communities? There are four who record the non-structural waiting figures in their records, but only in Madrid and Asturias do details of the rejection data of the agreed hospital. Rioxa and Andalusia don't mention those figures. But what happens where the so-called progressives rule, where they rule the left? Look: Balearics passed last year a decree of maximum times which contemplates private deriving the cases in which it exceeds those times of the decree, is it, is it, isn't it, Mrs. Solla? The Association for the Defence of Public Health of Balearics criticized this decree, just as it did with the pedestrian shock plan approved by the Whaling Government to put an end to the waiting lists. In the Valencian Community, a further increase in patients and a delay in the waiting list at the end of 2018, as in the previous one. They propose as a solution to self-concertation, i.e. peonadas, or extraconcertization. You know what extraconcertation is? It's private to those who can't be cared for in public health. That's the way the left hand uses not to talk about deriving from the private one.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u73	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u74	Finished, President. I'm not going to say what appeared in Andalusia, when the government changed, on the waiting lists. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the solutions where you rule seem far worse than those taken by the German Government, by the Government of the People's Party. We're not going to support your motion. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u75	Thank you very much. Mrs Solla Fernández has the floor for the motion's group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u76	Thank you, President. Do you want, Mr. Centeno, to stop: I would like us to stop bringing these initiatives here? So they vote in favour of providing information. Because it's a shame that you again assume to press a button in which you vote against a constitutional right. You, yes, you, who are the maximums of constitutional compliance for other elements, here deny that Members and Members have the information that we have the right to do our work. And I ask myself once again — we have come once again — we have to go back to ordinary justice to ask that we be satisfied with the proportion of information that Members and Members are asking for, don't we? Because in the end it seems like it's the only option left. And we've already demanded several times, also from the Bureau of the House, this issue, but the board doesn't provide any information. And in the end, we are deprived of a right that is inherent in our responsibility; we have to have information to do the valuation or, if not, are we to believe your information without providing the information requested? "Word of God. We praise you, Lord." Here's the health adviser and everybody has to believe what he transfers without any question and without giving the requested information. Look: We know perfectly well how non-structural waiting lists are made. That's exactly why we want to have the data, to know which of those people might be being intervened and are not being intervened. Because, indeed, as has been said here, of course, it lowers the occupation, because, if no intervention is scheduled, obviously the occupation will go down. You know that occupation is related, on the one hand, to urgent care and, on the other, to scheduled care. Logically, if less attention is paid, there will obviously be less occupation. I don't think it's necessary to be Pythagoreans to understand the mathematical logic in that matter. However, data is not provided, but they are able to make absolutely false claims in this forum. The Galician Health Service transfers 20,000 surgical operations every year to private companies in this country every year! They give data to private clinics. And yet, here, how they don't provide the data and it's free to transfer questions that are false because we don't have the data we've been asking for for for two and a half years, you can assert something like that no one moves to perform cataract operations, traumatology operations... and, more, there are many that are not being derived and that accumulate in the waiting lists. And last year we warned already here that there was a problem with ophthalmology interventions, and that there were medical professionals who warned of the consequences of delaying a complex operation that can in many cases cause the loss of vision capacity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u77	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u78	We have a problem and you — thank you very much — vote in favour of not giving us the information.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u79	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. We moved on to the next motion. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in matters of road safety
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u80	This motion was tabled an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia on the initiative of Mr Álvarez Martínez. [[(G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Luís Manuel Álvarez Martínez, through his spokesman and in the light of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits the following amendment to this motion to the Bureau.Amendment of amendment. To address the Ministry of Development for the purpose of analysing the mechanisms for a reduction in the fees of AP-9 and AP-53, so that they are in identical conditions to the rest of the highways of state-owned duty, as well as the same treatment in the highways AG-57 and AG-55."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u81	To formulate the motion, Mr. Bará Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u82	Thank you, President. These days the media announce a wave of heat, but here comes a wave of polar cold almost, right? I don't know if it's noticed on this side of the benches too, but it really does affect the Popular Group too. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u83	For clarification, you are already asked to cut the polar cold wave so that you don't have any complaints.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u84	They're meat and bone people who also affect the cold. All right. I'm glad. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Well, it was a joke to... No, the ideas don't freeze. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Because, in addition, our group — like the others — are opposition groups, and that also means that we are proposition groups, that we bring here proposals, we bring projects and we bring ideas. Many times you'll pull us — I'm not going to say where — they don't listen, but they're positive, constructive proposals, to improve reality, to move forward, they're ambitious and they have a vision of the future. Did you like it? Yes, it is. [[Laughter]] In addition to this case, which is a very serious matter, of course, because we are talking about a serious human and social problem like death, and not only death, but also people injured, in many cases of gravity, with serious consequences for road traffic accidents, which we cannot assume normally, as if it were a routine, something that has to happen, that is inevitable and that we cannot fight it. Of course, BNG believes that we have to articulate a social response, an institutional response from all institutions, to give it a solution and minimize the effects of these accidents. Especially because in recent years, in the last three years, but we can say that in the last five or six years, if there is a trend towards increasing the amount and severity of accidents, and also of the victims, after a period of approximately ten years where there has been a drastic reduction, to approximately 2012-2013. We have to take into account — and I have already referred to this data in the previous debate of the inquiry — that we passed in 2017 of 100 fatal victims, according to the final data, one hundred thirty-eight, which are the data of the Immelga, in 2018, and that in the first five months of the year we have taken 43 fatal victims, who are fifteen more than in 2018, which is really very worrying because 2018 has already been a very bad year. And there are, above all, some trends that concern us especially how, for example, the urban fatal victims, who doubled between 2011 and 2018; we go above the thirty street victims in our cities and villages, which is a figure, of course, shimmering; also the fatal victims as a result of the hits that occur mostly in the streets, in the long lanes, which means that there will have to be specific actions in those areas; and also the deaths by motorcycle accidents, which we have been nine this year, which is the largest figure in the last few years and is a very important increase. Of course, we must also be concerned about the human factors that affect serious and fatal accidents, which are the responsibility of the people who go to the wheel and which have to do with excessive speed, aggressive behavior at the wheel, with drug and alcohol consumption, and also with distractions related, especially in recent times, to the use of mobile phones. So, in view of this reality, what we propose in this motion is a very broad set of actions, of course, because we think the answer has to be in line with the challenge we have ahead. We propose comprehensive action with measures that relate to all areas: policy measures; planning measures, too, which relate to competences; awareness-raising and training measures, which are also decisive; and measures related to infrastructure. And we also believe that urgent and immediate actions and actions must be complemented in the medium term; and, of course, an action plan involving all administrations with competences in the field, which are both the state and the Galician and local authorities. The aim of this proposal must be to achieve a great deal of country agreement on this issue, to achieve a country pact, a pact for life, a pact for life on the roads and on the streets of our country that has as its starting point a clear message for all the population that is the declaration of road safety as a priority, such as an emergency and thus the development of a plan of measures that confronts it. And that plan is organized in various actions. Some have to do with policy changes that need to be addressed and that are essentially the responsibility of the State Government. These are changes that have to do with the traffic code. Some of them have already been put into practice with reduced speed on conventional roads, but it must also be applied to urban roads. And there's an announcement in this direction of the State Government of reducing the speed on the urban roads by 30 kilometers per hour. It would, of course, be a very effective measure to achieve results. It is also essential for us to act in the field of awareness, information and training. And here it's important to call things by their name. That is why we propose that we use the term "road violence" to refer to this road sinality caused by factors such as fearful driving, driving under the effect of alcohol and drugs or the unwises related to driving and distractions by the use of mobile phones. And I've already made reference to the fact that, precisely, the President of Stop Accidents, that you, the Government of the Union, have just awarded the Medal Castelao, is firm defender of applying these types of denominations. And this must also be accompanied by the hardening of both administrative sanctions and, if necessary, penalties against such conduct, which are aggressive, violent and potentially very dangerous conduct. We also propose a formal and non-formal education programme on road safety, with particular attention at school. In the planning area it is inevitable to address the issue of a Welsh strategy for sustainable, healthy and safe mobility — which is pending — and also the revision and drafting of a road safety plan for the next five years. Because the current one is already with very clear symptoms of exhaustion and, in addition, ends in 2020, and is not fulfilling the objectives for which it has been drafted, rather, above all, the main objective of reaching that target of thirty-four victims per million inhabitants, from which we are far away. So something is failing and changes to that schedule need to be made. And I'm leaving for the end the question of infrastructure, which is another key piece: improvement of the road network. And here there are shared responsibilities of all administrations as well. And this motion refers to the actions that the Galician Union has to do, for example, on urban crossings, where I said there was that alarming figure of pedestrian hits. We also believe that negotiations with the General Administration of the State must be initiated for the transfer of the State's road network — a gradual transfer — and, in transit, request the reinvestment of the money raised by fines and an extraordinary allocation by the State to improve the road network, prioritising security improvement actions. Because we have said here many times that there is a debt of hundreds of millions of the state with regard to Galicia in terms of investment in infrastructure, in particular on roads. We also propose the reduction of the fees in the motorways and the release of tranches that perform the functions of circumvaluations to avoid, precisely, traffic of passage and weight — because it is often heavy traffic — by densely inhabited areas. We also propose a good practice guide — and there are some examples in the country we can learn from — they are already published and should be extended to other areas — good practice guides on mobility and road safety, as well as that Joint investments are executed, prioritized and shared with objective criteria, and not as the CEO announces to us every four months with this client's distribution and with agreement to the letter that the Galician Union makes with councils governed by the People's Party. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows a document to the House.]] By referring only to the last case...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u85	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u86	He didn't compensate me for the cold of the beginning. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u87	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u88	Let me have a little more. Well, the Galaga Infrastructure Agency. This isn't a lie; it's the dog. First quarter: there are no public summons, there are agreements with the People's Party: Abegondo, Lousam, Carral, Coyros, The Paramoso, Vilalba, The Gudigna, Ourense, Beariz, Larouco...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u89	Finish, please, he's got another shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u90	Yes. And finally, we do not forget the question of competence. We need to implement the demand for transfer and the law that we have approved in this Parliament, to see whether this time the transfer of competences in matters of traffic and road safety is going.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u91	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u92	And I'm done, president, if you'll excuse me, 20 seconds to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u93	But he's got another shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u94	...to return that call to an agreement, to a great pact, to a great consensus of truth on this matter...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u95	Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u96	...which must be a pact, as I said, to save lives, a pact for life on our roads and on our streets.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u97	Thank you very much, Mr Bará, it's over, it's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u98	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u99	Mr Álvarez Martínez has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Bará, simply because of teaching: temperature and time are distinct physical magnitudes and therefore hardly compensable, it won't be; it doesn't compute the cold for extra time. In any case, by going to the important motion that you present related to road safety in the broadest sense of the term, we can't say that it's a synthetic motion, because it has eighteen points, which doesn't qualify it either good or bad, it's simply an assessment of its extension. In any case, he's talking about an extraordinarily worrisome matter. We talk about personal tragedies and family tragedies that stem vital projects when they cause death or, in any case, serious injuries with sequelae that are permanent and therefore a matter of the highest importance and priority. It won't be possible by limiting time — not temperature — to speak of all the points of your motion, but I'm going to stop at some that we consider particularly relevant. At their first point, they propose the establishment of an institutional and social table for road safety. We believe from our group — although we agree — that this is, in a way, to overlap with the Non-Permanent Committee on Road Safety, which is set up in this Parliament. Obviously, it would not be the same system of participation, but as for the actors who should compose that participation, we understand that they are the same and therefore we believe that... Besides, you also know perfectly well that we are in an almost final period of that non-permanent commission that, for a matter of time, has almost become permanent among so many laws that it has been working, right? So we understand that this could be practically solved. It would be desirable to have developed throughout this year, perhaps in the next session. You speak in your 6th point of developing a formal and non-formal education program, which we also agree with. But it's also appropriate to make it clear that certain aspects that you put in your motion are already included in school curricula, although cross-sectional; of course, they are not part of a subject. And, therefore, we do agree. How are we not going to agree with point 7 when our group has come to this House — with no success — a non-law proposal for the Board to produce a mobility law? And, therefore, we agree with what you ask in your point 7. We understand that the eighth point is somehow referred to in point 1, which I referred to earlier. And I'd simply like them to clarify us, to have time to do it, which is exactly what is required in point 11 of their motion when they talk about studying, preventing and reducing the labor fatality caused by traffic accidents. We haven't just understood very well whether you're referring to accidents that occur on the way and which are therefore part of them, are considered to be occupational accidents, or whether you're referring more specifically to jobs that are developed on the roads, like all the people who are involved in transport. You ask in point 13 for the study and put in place the transport of demand in nighttime leisure areas. It seems absolutely necessary to us, it seems absolutely relevant to us this inclusion since we are tired of seeing certain traffic accidents that occur after that... above all new people with, usually, little experience in driving and in circumstances of driving not very acceptable, end up with a night of leisure in an absolutely unbearable tragedy. In point 14, what we're going to ask for a separate vote, if you admit it, we haven't just understood very well where the final stage we want to move. I mean, he's talking about transfers from the state's road network, we understand that in our autonomous community, but we don't know very well if he refers to all of those who are currently State-owned and therefore have their justification in the general network. But, I insist, we haven't just understood very well what this proposal means. In point 15, which this group has gone into, we see no clear meaning either that they mean by "working as variants or circumvaluations" when we frame them right now on the highways of toll — Saintiago, Vigo and Pontevedra — they already have that liberalized toll. And that's why we are presenting a amendment that includes, in addition, that we address the Government of the State to analyze the mechanisms that make possible a reduction in the fees across the entire network of roads both autonomous and state, and therefore that also affects the Union of Galicia. And to finish with, as you don't agree with points 17 and 18 so that they are planned objectively, in a competitive competition regime, the necessary changes on the road network,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u101	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u102	... if I finish, President—so, of course, road safety is not an aspect which has no political aim and must therefore be treated in the same way before identical actions? Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Cal Ogango has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u104	Good morning to all and to all. Thank you, President. When we talk about putting life at the heart of our political actions, of policies that they care about, I think we rarely talk in such a direct, graphic and as clear manner as when we talk about road safety. Because, after all, we're talking in a very direct way about saving lives and taking care of the people on the roads. We're talking about actions and decisions that directly affect the integrity of the Greeks and the Greeks. We're in a tremendously alarming situation, as we know well, and the increase in sinlessness and mortality on the Greek roads has to put us all in tension, to make us react quickly and urgently. A question that already sounds — the fact that sinlessness and mortality are increasing — must alert us, but that in the present context we are in is still far more serious. Because we're talking about an increase, a tendency to increase in sinlessness and mortality that comes after ten years of a decade of continued decline in sinlessness and mortality, which clearly tells us that there's a change in context that makes this data worse, which has to make us alarm even more, because we know that the data could be much better if it had continued its trend since the beginning of the century. In the period between 2008 and 2018 — in the last decade, not to mention this dramatic beginning of the year — we spoke of 1,278 people, Welsh and Welsh, who died on the roads, 1,278 people in ten years lost their lives on the roads of Galicia! They are chilling data that, as Mr Bará said, we cannot normalize and we must act against them in a very determined way. And to this we also have to add all the people who suffer from injuries, and many of them serious and permanent injuries, which still make the situation much more dramatic. From 2000 onwards, the figure of sinality and mortality has fallen to 2011, where this trend of sinality is breaking down, which has increased to 40% today — from 2011 onwards — from 40% to today, to 40% after a decade of decline — and in 2013 it also breaks down the trend of mortality. And all of this clearly shows that what you're doing isn't going to be done properly or, at least, is insufficient. This speaks of the fact that the two road safety plans of the Feijóo era, 2011-2012 and 2016-2020, are at least insufficient, because they coincide with the change, with the rupture of this trend, and clearly show the failure of this kind of policy. Today the Galego Nationalist Block brings a battery of proposals with which we practically agree in its entirety, which, of course, can be discussed, if you can debate, because everything is negotiable, everything is negotiable, but what is not negotiable, of course, is to do nothing and not act decisively and decisively in the face of this situation. What is also not negotiable is not to give this situation the real importance it has and to apply the investments we need, because we are also tired of many plans, we are tired of laws, we are tired of promises, but then they are not accompanied by budgets and they are not accompanied by actions and they are not executed. So we need to put our batteries on this question. Obviously, as Mr. Álvarez said, the BNG motion is very extensive, it's 18 points and some of them quite extensive, we can't stop at all but I'll also comment on some of them. We fully agree with point 4 to address the Government of the State to push for the regulatory changes that are currently being processed. And what we have to highlight about this is that these are some policy changes, most of them, that the People's Party has made in its day and that they have proved themselves wrong and that they have to be reversed and that they have to be put back on the previous point, especially those that have to do with the most vulnerable modes of mobility. As for social awareness campaigns, in a context where we know that one of the main reasons for accidents is distraction and high speed, we can't understand how it's no longer being done until now, how it's not implemented and all these sensitization campaigns have not been promoted. It's something we know that works, we know it's important to do it. It also seems very important to us the issue of urban crossings, we know that pedestrians and cyclists are greatly increasing, and here we have said many times that it is necessary to adapt...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u105	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u106	...the roads — and I end with this — to the reality of the road itself, which many of these roads pass through many populations and are not suitable for the crossing and for us is one of the important issues. So we're going to support the entire motion of the Galician Nationalist Block and, although there's a question we'd like to come in for a little bit, we're going to support it as a whole.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u107	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, Mrs Rodríguez Barreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u108	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. We, from the People's Parliamentary Group, have to regret, as we have always said, all the casualties on our roads, of course, a fatal victim in Sarria, because behind this are personal family dramas that, of course, we have to reject and lament. The motion presented by Mr Bará reveals, however, that, although it is framed in a spirit of consensus and that pact for life that he said, we perceive an interest not so much in achieving a pact as in making a political use of this issue, which is a question that I think we must all agree that it has an interest and an importance that affects us all and therefore we must all have a constructive spirit, a spirit of consensus and not use it or use it as a political tool. You, and I'm telling you this because, first of all, there were a lot of responsibilities in different areas that put forward in this battery of proposals, but the fact is that all proposals address them to the Council of Galicia, and certainly there are a lot of other competent administrations in the matter: the councils, the State administration... and I would, in fact, like to — without this representing any kind of self-comprehension — to remember that on the Greek roads, that is precisely where they are kept, in view of this increase in victims. On the roads of autonomous ownership, precisely, the number of victims remained, and I hope they were less, but the reality is that. Look, we consider you in this proposal to make a series of rhetorical uses of this issue. For example, consider the establishment of an institutional table. As the spokesman of the Socialist Party has just said and as we all know, there is in this parliament a non-permanent Road Safety Commission, there is an autonomous Road Traffic and Safety Commission and therefore there are forums to deal with this issue. But you don't want a commission, you want a table. On the other hand, he proposes that it be called "road violence" by road, and on the other hand he says that a priority declaration of road safety must be made. Look, we think these rhetorical plots aren't as important matter as this one. That is to say, it is not a question of discussing whether we call it violence or if we make statements but that we really take effective measures and that with our actions we believe that this is a truly priority matter. And that's why I miss you in your intervention and in your proposal that you bring here ideas, initiatives, proposals, that really are already running in many cases, a good part of them, by the Galician Board, but to those that don't make any reference. I am not only referring to this specific case which we are discussing at this plenary session but also to so many occasions when we have the opportunity in Commission 2 to discuss them. For example, you're talking about black dots. So what he doesn't say, for example, is that the only administration that counts with a strategy to eliminate the truces of accident concentration is precisely the Union of Galicia. The Ministry of Development signals them. But you don't have to signal them, you have to remove them. You're also talking about developing a new road safety plan with participation. Be calm: I'm sure Galicia will have a new road safety plan for the period 2020-2023, where you will have the opportunity, sure, to participate, also the difference from what you have done with what is currently being developed. We could talk more about their initiatives, about the contributions of cyclists and pawns. We all have in mind these collectives, these vulnerable users, right, on the roads and therefore we have to keep working. But there is no need to miss the effort of the Roadmap, which has led us to create or equip us with 100 kilometres of safe trails for cyclists and pawns in recent years, with the objective of being 170 kilometers at the end of the legislation, or even those routes for protected cyclists. The awareness-raising campaigns and the cross-sectional curriculum that already exist in the educational field have also been referred to as the spokesperson for the PSOE. I'm just not going to mention it because time would stop it. But you also ask for actions in your own infrastructures. Well, we could also talk about the plans for the reinforcement of the firms, the inspections of the bridges, and the blacks, which you announced to the Counsellor in the last interpellation, or those high-capacity pathways, in which you have implemented miles in recent years. Look, above all, we are going to reject your proposal, that battery of proposals, for one reason: because we have, Mr Bará, that environment, that framework which is the non-permanent Committee on Road Safety, in which we have just set up the presentation, in which we believe that the conditions of consensus should be given, that we should make proposals, that we should have a productive spirit, because this is a subject that deserves it and, of course, from the People's Parliamentary Group so we announce it. But what we don't think is useful is that, in particular, you're putting this battery here, others we could pose others. We have that framework where we will all have to agree, where we will all have to make proposals and for that reason we will reject it. We, Mr Bará, at that point...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u109	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u110	...from the Commission we hope to find it, to resolve and propose the best possible effective measures towards the adoption of the own and contributions to the next road safety plan. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u111	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez. Mr. Bará Torres has the floor for the fact that the motion has been drafted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u112	The truth is that we find it regrettable, Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira, the contempt, the contempt of a proposal which has 18 points and which is not worth any, because you are not worth any. And then come here with the use of politics. But we're talking about politics, we're talking about political decisions! What are we talking about here? Another thing is the use of partisans. And I've already said in the previous intervention of the interpellation that we had to put this issue above the party confrontation. But it's about politics, road safety policies, and the BNG, of course, is betting on these policies and it's doing it, and I think that effectively, in those administrations in which it is governing, which are reference in this matter. And I'm not going to remind you of the examples and the recognitions. You say another thing that's absolutely false: that we only ask for measures from the Council of Galicia. We are not talking about policy measures, which are within the competence of the State; we are talking about infrastructures, which are within the competence of the Union and more of the State, for example, of high-capacity roads, motorways... and I am explaining a question to Mr. Álvarez: when we talk about these truces that have the functionality of Circulations, we refer, for example, to the tract that goes from Vilaboa to Barro, in the AP-9, that crosses an area that passes through the state road, which has a lot of traffic, and that, if you get rid of peas, all that traffic would go to the highway. They're examples like that. You say we're not talking about proposals that are already being made. Logically, we're not putting forward proposals that are already being made. And these measures that we propose here are to complement those that are developing the Galician Union, that in some cases we find — not in all, but in some cases — that are not effectively fulfilling the objectives, and there are the data that do not lie, the data do not lie. No, we're moving away from the target of 34 deaths per million, which is the target for within a few months. So something will have to be done, and that's why we also propose urgent measures that don't have to do with that medium and long-term planning. Of course, I don't buy you the argument that we already have a non-permanent commission, because we've been a non-permanent commission for 12 years, and there's been no result here. And now, today yes, indeed, we have created a presentation today after twelve years. But they are also completely different plans: one is the parliamentary plan and another is the plan of an institutional and social table, where the institutions are, where the collectives and social entities are. What'll it have to do with something else? They are enriching and complementary visions, and everything will come up with solutions and proposals. There is also something for Parliament, for something there are non-law proposals and motions. That's why we bring her here: to bring up proposals that you, of course, are disregarding. And I would also like to explain to Mr. Álvarez, about the amendment and point 14, which we refer to the road network of the State. We argue that Galicia should manage the entire road network of Galician and state competition, and that this has to be a gradual process. But what we're proposing is that there be an extraordinary investment. So, we want to know if you agree...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u113	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u114	...with that extraordinary investment too. Anyway, what do we think is that we can't settle down in conformity...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u115	Accept...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u116	... we must be realistic in this matter...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u117	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u118	...and we must, of course, take courageous measures, ambitious measures and effective measures that are producing results elsewhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u119	Thank you very much. With regard to the amendment, what did he say, whether he accepted or not?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u120	No, we accept the vote by points but the amendment does not accept it as it is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u121	Okay, thanks. All right, thank you very much. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Motion by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the social phenomenon of unwanted loneliness
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u122	No amendments were tabled to this motion. To formulate the motion has the floor to Mrs. Noela Blanco Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u123	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies. Although my companion, Mrs Vilán, the spokeswoman of the Socialist Group, has already mentioned on behalf of the entire parliamentary group, I, today, as Raúl's companion, not only of the Socialist Group but also of the Ourense province, wanted to mention his loss, and make a reflection: Raul has left us a great lesson in life, the lesson that there is no need to surrender in the worst moments, that you have to raise your head and offer the best of yourself even though there are days when you don't want to get up. Thank you, Raúl, for your dignity, for your temper and your humanity. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the question put forward in the previous plenary session, we present today a motion that aims to have a deeper understanding of the phenomenon of unwanted loneliness: who are, where they are, where they live, what needs these people have. We want to make them face, name and surname. To know your personal circumstances, to have a complete social map of that suffering because many people are subjected to that failure or lack of interpersonal relationships they are suffering. From that diagnosis, what we also want is that more resources are being put on the part of the Government of Greece to deal with dignity, the dignity that our greatest ones deserve, for that social debt that we always say we have with them. True, loneliness can test any person, the unwanted one, too, but also that, despite the fact that there are other collectives who are also at great risk of suffering, it is the higher people who present a higher risk and those who express a concern in this sense. According to INE data, single-person homes in Galicia have grown at a rate of 11 percent over the last five years, a rise which does not affect all the old tranches. For example: among the younger people, due to the lack of working opportunities — which we have commented on on many occasions — and economics and precariousness, there are many young people who continue to choose to live with their parents or their mothers or to share apartments with other companions. In particular, it is women over sixty-five years old who make up the block of the solitary—we call them—a loneliness that has as its main causes the difficulties of adapting to retirement, adverse family circumstances, widowhood, the lack of contact with their children and children, the social disunculation that these people suffer, the loss of social or community networks, and even health problems. We all believe that we know the consequences of that unwanted loneliness: older people who stop eating. There is a study under the title "Nutritional State in over 65 years of age in Primary Care in northern Galicia" — but it is extrapolable to the entire autonomous community — in which we are told by this group of professionals that more than twenty percent of the older people living alone suffer from processes and malnutrition problems; something that also has a lot to do with these low pensions: we have just met that report from the INS — even today in the morning — where it tells us, once again, that Galicia has the second lowest pension in all Spain and a difference with the rest of Spain and the state average of more than six hundred euros. Malnutrition has, in addition to the obvious physical consequences, a component of fragility: it is associated with a higher risk of morbidity, higher rates of infection, increased falls and fractures and hospital stays that become difficult, much more complicated than in other cases, for these people who are alone. Then there are those who begin to have mild dementias, who pass through them alone too, and who, in addition to malnutrition and malnutrition because they stop eating, even neglect their personal hygiene. There are other obvious consequences: severe depression, risk of aggression or theft of these people who are in a more fragile position; even cases of abuse or violence against our elders are much more difficult to detect. The problem was addressed even last year, in his annual report, by the principal prosecutor of Galicia, who referred to and said a phrase that I think is very revealing: "It is not acceptable that there are people who are dead two months at home and nobody misses them." We, from the PSdEG, believe not only that it is not acceptable in global terms, but that it is neither morally nor politically acceptable that this is happening and that we have a government that is not doing anything about it. [[Applause]] These are cases in which no one suspected anything, people who had been long after dying in their homes. Even some of the cases that we had recently known — that the news had been missed — that the family had found out that these renters had come off those accounts and, when that account went to zero, their relatives had found out that that person had died. We could bring an initiative today — and we have brought them to this chamber from the PSdeG — much wider, which deals with issues of the reality of our greatest needs and needs that we have seen in recent years: larger residences, dependency resources, more social programs... because the needs are a lot. In the last ten years, we have seen him repeat it constantly: the policy of the Greek Government for our biggest years has been and continues to be in minimum services. We opt, however, for a small step that we consider important, that is to have a diagnosis, a social map of what is the reality of these people. We are asking for this initiative to prepare, in collaboration with Fegamp, a report that allows the impact of the phenomenon of unwanted loneliness in Galicia; a document that will contain a census of older people living alone in Galicia. We are innovating in a way, ladies and gentlemen, because there are already municipalities in this autonomous community that have implemented these censuses in order to be able to pay more personalized attention. Today I want to set here as an example the Council of Cerceda, which was the first to put it into action, and to return to bless my companion, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, who was in front of that initiative and who was one of your promoters. [[Applause]] Given the results of this report in collaboration with Fegamp and the Government of Spain and also with the fundamental collaboration of the third sector, we believe that, after having that diagnosis, something more needs to be done there. We want to urgently develop a strategy of prevention and attention to unwanted loneliness in our autonomous community; a strategy that comprehensively addresses this problem, which may have different approaches and different approaches, but where we think all the institutions involved have to be, and that's why we demand it on this initiative. It is a problem that we consider — as I said — to be addressed in a global way to raise, firstly, the whole society about the existence of this phenomenon, but also to take steps to prevent it and to try to avoid it, through that more specific scientific scientific knowledge that we have seen claiming. Because it is true that there is data, but also that the data is insufficient and that it does not allow, or did not allow until now, that there is more personalized attention that takes into account the needs of everyone. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u125	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. Since the Galician Nationalist Block we shared much of the concern that Mrs. Blanco had described right now and we wanted to bring here another reflection too. It is undeniable that the transformation that Galician society has lived in the last decades and, in addition to demographic factors, we cannot forget that the advancement of neoliberalism has also contributed to the building of a society that is increasingly individualistic and that has increasingly abandoned the collective by itself, and that also has a translation into how we live our lives. We understand, from the BNG, that this initiative is positive, because it is necessary not to make stereotyped readings — not imported — of what is this unchosen solitude. Because the truth is, despite everything, this country, fortunately, continues to be a society that creates communities, lives in communities, and is not understood without that collective factor, but there is something that is decisive, which is the demographic evolution that our country is experiencing. Without being the X-ray of our unwelcome loneliness that is acceptable to other realities of which there have also been recent examples, such as that of the United Kingdom or that of Germany itself, this requires us to make our own reading of what our state of affairs is and what needs we have to meet. What is obvious, the starting point that we should not deny anyone, is that this unwanted loneliness exists and that we are facing a growing reality. The very prospects of the Galego Institute of Statistics estimate that in the next decade there will be about 100,000 more in this situation, and, regardless of what statistics tell us, also observing around us the factors of our country's evolution, it is undeniable that this will be the case. We have to take into account, for example, the factor of emigration, particularly of youth emigration, the impact it has on family structures and how the most classic correlation of family structures has changed, for other reasons as well. We also have to take into account low birth rates and we have to be objective and objective: surely who we are today at the age of forming a family does not have it, some because they don't want it, others because they don't want it, but also in many cases because our country's economic and social situation prevents us from developing a project of life in time and form. We also need to take into account the evolution of aging, and there the indicators are clearly alarming. The Galego Institute of Statistics itself ends at the beginning of this 2019 a new study on the most important indicators at the demographic level and pointed out, for example, how the global dependency index continues to increase since 2008 and, also, how the senile dependency index continues this upward rate that has since there are studies, due to the logical evolution of the increase in life expectancy. That reality is there, and the question is what we do to intervene in it, to adapt to these changes. We understand that there are two basic issues: first, ensuring public services that are strengthened and that meet that reality, but also a deeper reflection on the model of society and the model of life that we foster from public authorities. So, in view of the complexity of this issue, we were alarmed to see the absolute simplicity that the Social Policy Council expressed here just fifteen days ago, reducing this question practically and the debate to active aging and trivializing saying that there were many grandparents and grandparents in this country who looked after their grandchildren and grandchildren or who were reading, and that there were some even doing both things: taking care of their grandchildren and their grandchildren and going to the reading. Well, we think that, definitely, if that's the simplism with which the Greek Government wants to approach this question, it's definitely living on another planet, already starting because within thirty years surely most of the population that is at the age of being grandparents or grandparents will not be, and surely also, seeing the structure of the country's population, many won't even have a read to go to. Therefore, reading is quite more complex and quite deeper. In this context, we share this initiative, which, as the Socialist spokesman said, is minimal; the minimum is that we know what the reality is and then open the debate on how we should intervene in it. The truth is, Mrs. Blanco, that I've seen her very hopeful, but knowing and then consensual are two verbs that she doesn't like to practice too much with the People's Party, so I don't know what luck she will have. I wanted to end with a last reflection: of course, since the Nationalist Block of Wales what we have clear is that attention to loneliness cannot be a new alibi so that the People's Party will continue to privatize public services and make a niche of business; that is, we have absolutely clear it. And the truth is, according to all the indicators, it seems that this is where they want to take us. I refer to the last report of the Board of Auditors on spending on residential care, which precisely demands a greater supply of public squares and which precisely points to the importance that is being given to the private in this way. It sets specific examples of what the Galician community has sixty-five percent of its private squares and highlights, in addition, precisely, the province of which we are White: Ourense, which is precisely the part of our country that has a more serious problem with regard to the care of unwanted loneliness and with regard to attention to demographic challenges and which leads these privatization quotas. Therefore, of course, since the Galician Nationalist Block we will vote in favour of this initiative. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u127	Thank you, President, for the facilities too. We will also vote in favour of this initiative, and of course we believe that the first point is fundamental, because if we do not know the reality, we will hardly be able to take measures that are effective. Today, specific studies on unwanted loneliness are lacking and specific data from the Galician Union is missing. Above all, we believe that the important thing is to understand that we are not faced with a homogeneous phenomenon: nothing has to do with living only by our own will, by our decision, that living only in a imposed way, and also has nothing to do with living with or living in some centers, as can be institutions, and feeling that loneliness as well. We think it's fundamental to know quantitative data, to know how many people over the age of sixty-five who live alone, but we think there's a lot more to go there: to know which of those people do it in a certain way and without being a personal decision. Because the consequences of this imposed loneliness, these feelings — as already noted — are multiple: they're physical, they're psychological, they're social, and although it's not a phenomenon that can be reduced or limited to people older than sixty-five years old, it's obvious that they have specific and important characteristics in this population. As already mentioned, mobility is going to deteriorate and it's a matter of life, and dementia is also at greater risk of developing itself in the face of this loneliness. We believe that it is essential to deal specifically with this issue in people over the age of sixty-five. We have to say that, as in many subjects, it is quite alarming that, despite the fact that there is an agreement — or it seems that there is an agreement when we listen to all groups of this parliament — that it is a worrying reality and that action is needed in this situation, the measures being taken in recent years are far from effective, but we have been attending many years of paralysis to a situation which, as it has been said, is very alarming, with more than one hundred and thirty thousand people, but whose progress will be much worse due to the changes that have taken place in society. We also wanted to put a conditioner on the table that we think needs to be taken into account when we talk about this issue, which is the dispersion of the population we have in our country. Because, although it is often said that rural people are defended, understood and public policies are made from this perspective, in the day-to-day we see how this is completely false. Services are increasingly poor in rural areas, and transport has also been of the worst quality. We understand that many older people, who live in rural areas, also have to have access to services and infrastructure, regardless of where they live. We believe it is a phenomenon of difficult approach; as you have considered here, there will not be a single framework of intervention. We believe that today's proposal from the PSdEG is the most appropriate one, because it is open and because it opens the dialogue with associations that have been working on this problem directly for a long time, in the face of administration inaction. We believe that the important thing is that we also investigate new resources, because, despite the fact that, obviously, the defence of public services, day centres and residences is fundamental, I believe that we also have a challenge as a society to investigate another type of housing resource that is not always the institutionalization of people when they don't want it to be so. Networking, creating a community—the voice of the Galician Nationalist Block also said: in an increasingly individualist world, it seems difficult to bet on the collective; but, no doubt, it is the way we have to go. We — as I say — believe that the Council of Galicia takes a very large suspension in the attention of this problem: they have been cutting public services for a long time, privatizing fundamental resources such as day centres and other resources, and they are failing to comply with the law of dependence in a systematic way. We believe it is essential that, from now on, if you feel new bases. I wanted to launch an idea that I know probably isn't reality and that's impossible, at least while this government is around, but there are certain issues, such as health, such as social services and how dependency, which should be illegal to do business. And I say it's illegal because to me it's a barbarity that there is one who works at the expense of other people's health or other people's care. We believe that we have to boost the public network because, on the pretext that the public network is not enough, some people have been doing business for a long time. We expect today's initiative to move forward. It's an initiative of minimals and we believe there's no reasonable argument for the People's Party to leave it. I wouldn't be surprised if you didn't go ahead, either, but at last. As I say, I think we have to take the collective challenge of helping and solving this situation that is so worrying in our country and that over the years it will be much worse.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u129	Thank you, Mr. President. It seems that some parliamentary groups already hope that the People's Group will not accept this initiative without listening to their voice. Of course, you must have shrewd powers. Well, what we are in agreement is that more information is needed on how many older people live alone in Galicia, because it is necessary to have that information to address and dimension this problem in our community. What is true is that the first law of demographic impulse in Spain will be dealt with in Galicia. What is true is that in Galicia a Galego Observatory of Demographic Dynamication was created and that with this work the law of demographic impulse of Spain will be drawn up. In this observatory or in this forum of participation, in which we are represented all the political groups, trade union and business organizations, universities, local and central administration, social entities, as well as professional experts on the subject, have produced a report that they made public last July; this Galicia report, demographic perspectives, a broad document that draws up a diagnosis of the current situation in Galicia from a demographic point of view and which is the result of six months of analysis and six months of work. This document is going to analyze the ageing population in Galicia and the profile of older people in our community. Specifically, it points out that in 2016 life expectancy in Galicia was of eighty-three years —79.45 for men and 85.84 for women — keeping our community as one of the world's most healthy places in relation to life expectancy. In 2018, people over sixty-four years old in Galicia accounted for 24.59 percent of the population, and 35.62 percent of people over sixty-five years old are people over eighty years old, a fact that is very important. In relation to single-person homes, they have greater relevance in the municipalities with less than 10,000 inhabitants and in the municipalities with more than 50,000 inhabitants. In the smaller municipalities, single-person homes are mostly made up of older people, and mostly that older person is a woman. Despite the changes in family dynamics, according to this report by the Observatory, in Galicia the family persists with support functions and solidarity among its members. But we have a major challenge ahead that we have to face, which is the challenge of active and healthy aging, and for that in Galicia we count on an active Greek ageing strategy 2016-2020, which is the framework of action that the Galician Union has for an active, healthy, independent and secure life. Among some of the resources that our community has to address this challenge, we can highlight the volunteering programmes — as the advisor mentioned in the past —: the Senior Volunteering Programme or the Volunteering Programme Accompanying, to give company to people over sixty-five years of age who voluntarily decide to live alone; the Dinner program at home, to ensure that more than one thousand three hundred people each day have a healthy and balanced meal in their home in more than one hundred sixty-nine municipalities; or the home support service, which is fundamental, the most requested and best valued by users. Because in Galicia there's a reality that we can't close our eyes, which is that older people mostly prefer to stay at home. The home help service this year has over seventy-five billion euros, and over twenty-four thousand older people have this home help service in order to live better. The telecare service also allows more than five thousand and seven hundred older people to have professional support for the twenty-four hours a day, when they feel insecure, when they sit alone or when they have any kind of accident. And, if not, the homes of the oldest, a care resource for people over the age of sixty, who reside in rural municipalities and who are in a situation of moderate or severe dependence, in which they receive free care. For all this, we believe that it is necessary to have a deeper understanding of the situation of older people living alone in our community. We consider this census of older people necessary, and we also consider it necessary, once you have that data from that census of older people, to talk about what is the strategy of prevention and attention to address this problem. So — I hope you will not be surprised — the People's Party will vote in favour of this initiative. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Motion author group, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u131	Thank you very much, President. First of all, I would like to thank all the groups for their support. Mrs. Presas, "don't call me ill because I have an illusion," as the song of La Cabre Mechanica said. The fact is that it costs a lot to get an agreement on this chamber by the absolute majority of the People's Party, but there are times — very few occasions — especially when we talk about social policy, which is achieved. We, from the PSdeG, thank you for this support. We also hope that this will be a small step, Mrs People's Party, and that you will start walking on a different path in the Social Policy Council: that if these resources are improved for our elders, that this change that you will make today with this favourable vote will also be favourable on other occasions to boost those resources of dependence that we have so often claimed and to boost those larger residences that the PSdeG has been asking for for for years. But, finally, I think today's all about thanking you, thanking all the groups and asking you to do it. I think it's very important, because in recent years some initiatives have been approved, we see that many of them end up in some drawers, you don't know very well how. I mean, since the PSdEG, we are going to follow up on this initiative, Mrs. People's Party, don't get angry, because we think it's important and it can improve the lives of our biggest people. We will continue to insist on the necessary help that they need, we will continue to value, also say and respect all that they have worked for these years, and give them at the end of their lives the resources they deserve and need. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. We shall proceed to the vote on the motions. Close the doors, please. We started by voting on the motion of the En Marea Parliamentary Group. We vote. Motion put forward by G.P. of En Marea, at the initiative of Eva Solla Fernández and Luis Villares Naveira, on the performances to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the non-structural waiting lists of Sergas and the staff policy of the Health Council. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 29; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u133	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. A point vote has been requested; it seems to be: 14 and 15 separately. Do you accept that point vote? Thank you. [[Mr. Bará Torres: Yes.]] We therefore vote points 14 and 15 of this motion. We vote. Vote of points 14 and 15 of the motion submitted by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Xosé Luís Bará Torres, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in matters of road safety. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 17 votes against, 38; abstentions, 12. The result of the vote is negative. Points 14 and 15 of this motion are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u134	Let us now vote on the rest of the points of the motion. We vote. Vote for the remaining points of the motion submitted by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Xosé Luís Bará Torres, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in matters of road safety. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 29; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. The remaining points of this motion are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u135	And finally, that of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We vote. Motion put forward by G.P. the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the social phenomenon of unwanted loneliness. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 67. The voting is positive. This motion is therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u136	We suspended the session until 6:30.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u137	We continue the session with the second item on the agenda, of appearances. The opinion of Mrs. Counsellor for Education, University and Vocational Training, on his own request, to report on the situation of education and university in Galicia at the end of the course 2018-2019
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u138	In order to formulate the intervention, the adviser for Education, University and Vocational Training has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u139	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. As you know, at the end of September, I assumed responsibilities as an education, university and vocational training adviser, just when the classes were just beginning in schools and universities in Galicia. That's why and after the course is over, it seems necessary to be in this House today to report on the situation and how the 2018-19 course was developed, both in non-university education and in the Galician university system. At my previous professional stage, I had the opportunity to first-hand know the functioning of many educational centers. You will understand that since I took over the management of the Council, I have had even more interest in visiting the facilities where the training activity takes place. But it was even more important for me to be able to talk directly to the student, to the teacher, to parents and mothers, to university officials and to researchers. These more than one hundred and twenty visits, along with the working meetings that I had with various groups, allow me to express that the teaching of Galicia and the University System of Galicia are more alive than ever and that they enjoy good health. Galicia has a defined and differentiated educational model that advances, and advances with projects to contribute to the development of talent and leadership in the excellence of learning of Galician citizens of the 21st century. To center my intervention, I'll start by talking about non-university education and then continue to analyze the situation of the Galician university system. In this final course, about 344,900 pupils and students received training in Galicia in childhood education, special education, primary education, ESO and bachelor's degree, and more than 51,000 students took different courses of vocational training offered. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to assess how it is worth the fact that educational activity is normally developed in the whole of Galician educational centres, solving the immediate incidences. Thus, one more course of teaching was characterized by consolidating modern and innovative projects and moving forward in a FP which is useful both for the training of people and for the development of Greek society. In general terms, more and more educational activity and complementary education services have covered demand and needs with standards that have met. Galicia is the autonomous community that helps families cope with the school course through three fundamental pillars: — Total free school transport for approximately 90,000 pupils and students from 774 public centres. In addition, the Council agreed with 13 entities to facilitate the transport service to 355 students with special educational needs. And this course operated 495 lines of shared transport. — A school dining room based on family income. In 2018-19 the school dining service reached the 75,699 meals by adding the 437 dining rooms managed by the Conseilería, the 131 of the ANPA and the 50 dining rooms of the Town Councils. The Welsh Educational Administration attended 61,500 users through the 302 indirect management dining rooms and 135 direct management. This course, 74.8% of dining users used free money to pay for a euro. Restaurants and kitchens I've also visited and in those I've stayed for lunch without notice. — And a free solidarity for textbooks which in this course provided a total of 27,513 aids for the acquisition of textbooks and 96,759 aids for the acquisition of school materials. In addition, the solidarity fund of textbooks distributed a total of 631.291 manuals. This course of free solidarity for textbooks arrived at 135,757 students, well through the background —108,244 — benefit from the aid —27,513 —. The German student and his family have benefited from a more modern training course adapted to current times, as a result of the progressive expansion of initiatives and policies launched in the last decade. Multilingual teaching is increasingly at levels and more teaching. Thus, in addition to the acquisition of skills in Spanish and in Greek, the student is faced with an integral learning of a foreign language, mostly English. The decree of 20 May 2010 for the multilingualism of non-university education in Galicia and the Greek plan for the empowerment of foreign languages were the precursors of the current Greek foreign language strategy, Edulingue 2020, which is expanding the learning of languages in children, bachelors, vocational training and university teachings. In this course 80% of Galicia's educational centres participated in multilingual programmes already with 385 multilingual centres, adding to the multi-lingual teachings in children, in Bachelor's degree and in FP, which were offered in primary and secondary schools. The learning of foreign languages has already covered the whole of public education, benefiting more than 110,000 pupils and students. According to a recent report by the Ministry of Education and the British Council, multilingual education is improving the English communicative competence of Greek students. Both they and their teachers are satisfied with the experience shown in the Edulingu strategy. We also appreciate the progressive consolidation of the Welsh Strategy for Digital Education, Edition 2020, with two lines of action: — with Edisgal teaching in German improved content support and updating tools by enabling this course 2018-19 the digital book to reach 267 centres and 18,000 students; — with the STEM strategy, they are promoting skills in science, technology and mathematics among the students in Greece, and in this course 15 centres offered for the first time the Bachelor of Excellence in Science and Technology — STEM Bac — and the rest of the related activities such as the Maker Spaces, the Science Clubs and the STEM Weeks were normally developed. In addition to improving scientific skills, I would like to remind you of the important role of school libraries in the formation of the student's key competences and, more importantly, as a meeting place for critical creation and thinking. In this course, 655 public centres and 24 concerteds in Galicia benefited from the school library improvement plan, the main action of the school library guide plan for the period 2016-2020. In the context of Plan Lía, work with 53 special education centres or special education units under the name ‘inclusive library’ is also noteworthy. As a matter of fact, reading clubs linked to 253 educational centres are beneficial to the educational community as a whole. This course presents the results of the study Clubs of readers in high school in Galicia. His main conclusion is that the student who participates in the reading clubs highlights in his communicative abilities, in his thinking skills and behaviors in the field of diversity and equality, which has a positive impact on his academic achievements, especially in achieving the quality of understanding and expression, both in both oral and written. One more course, Galicia has an inclusive education that works for equality and coexistence but also an innovative teaching that thinks about students, teachers and families. More inclusive education because, according to the latest data published by the Ministry this month, in Galicia 92.7% of students with special needs study in ordinary centres, which favours equal opportunities in teaching and genuine social justice. And we also work on attention to diversity by promoting flexible itineraries for students with special educational needs. A teaching that works equality and coexistence through numerous activities and actions of the first Action Plan for Equality in the educational centers of Galicia 2016-2020 and the Gallica Strategy of School Coexistence 2015-2020, Educonvives, which meant for the teaching of Greek have plans of coexistence in each center. A more innovative teaching that enables educational centres with the involvement of students and teachers to participate and assume as their own initiatives such as the program contracts for educational improvement, which have benefited almost 351,000 students and students belonging to 572 schools in this course. In this initiative, which covers seven lines of educational reinforcement, 28,078 teachers were involved, and in addition the Council hired 295 additional external support teachers for the reinforcement in guidance and support, as well as for the reinforcement of key competences in the third and fourth levels of the ESO and in the Basic FP. The activities of the Project Plan, aimed at promoting educational innovation in the centres through 43 educational programs that develop key competences as the axis of the curriculum and the transversal elements, in which education is included in values. Or experiences such as the Piteas Program for Training and mentoring for the development of talent in classes, developed by the Barrie Foundation in collaboration with the Education Council. The first results of a study conducted by the University of Santiago de Compostela reflect that participants in this program are presenting significant advances in learning capacity, communication and expression, motivation, teamwork and talent development both by students and teachers from participating centers, which results in a very positive learning climate. And participation in initiatives to recognize good practice in foreign language learning, inclusive education, school libraries, etc. In recent years the offer of vocational training qualifications has earned in prestige and has also helped to meet the job start-up expectations of the student with 85.9% percentages in the case of FP graduates in Galicia and 90.7% in dual vocational training. One more course, Galicia was able to offer an attractive FP and adapted to socio-productive tissue and that fosters entrepreneurship, while taking significant steps to consolidate the dual FP. Evidence of this is that in 2018-19 more than 51,000 people studied FP in some of the 1,261 cycles supported by public funds. To confirm that in this course there were 1,069 enrolled in the 127 cycles of dual FP, offered in 42 educational centers and that this is a formative modality that has already involved 200 companies. This year, we approved the plan for the dynamisation of the dual FP in Galicia, where EUR 5 million will be invested in two courses. The first action envisaged in the plan, which is already under way, was the creation of the dual FP dynamisation network of the Galician dual — REGADual — through which 47 centres of dual FP dynamizers were appointed throughout Galicia and one person responsible for full-time dynamisation in each of these centres. Educational projects and regular work in the centres are possible each course thanks to the training of the council, but also to the work of teachers and management teams of the more than 1,100 centres in Galicia. As you know, this course started to apply the Council agreement and the unions that allow the Greek teachers to have a remuneration framework that exceeds that of the state average. Together with the permanent training of the teacher developed throughout the various activities programmed through the Cafi and CFR — Training and Resources Centres — the Council convened and completed the 2019 OPE tests for which 2,064 squares were offered in 36 different specialities. The largest supply of public employment in German education in the last decade will serve to comply with state and autonomic stabilization agreements and to reduce the already reduced rate of interinternity in education in Galicia, the community that has the lowest in the state. As a matter of fact, one of the important groups in education are the management teams, but they are also safe from the principle of autonomy in educational administration centres and representatives and can be proactive leaders for the success of the educational community. For them, the Council activated this course several measures. The new provincial board of directors and directors, as well as the new autonomous board of directors and directors, were constituted by the application of the premise of parity between genres but also of representativeness of groups that were previously not, such as the CRA teams or the ICFP teams, both fundamental in the development of rural Galician. To increase collaboration between centres, since last April it is running the management website, which has become a very practical tool for management teams into key issues ranging from updated regulation to call announcements, all protocols, instructions, models of essential documents for the centre or applications of most common use. All of this, complemented by open communication through the forum of debate between the members of the management teams in which each day they respond to issues, doubts and requests. And he also betted on facilitating the formation of all the contents that affect the management exercise to update knowledge towards a more efficient task and, above all, to equip the management teams with accurate legal knowledge. During this intervention, I highlighted the programs and initiatives addressed to people, but it's important also to talk about the physical spaces that welcome them and that allow the learning process and the innovation process, which is a fundamental variable in all the ecological theories of motivation, learning and creativity. We have spent a decade investing in the improvement of Galician educational centres, to the point that, since April 2009 until December 2018, works amounting to €266.3 million have been carried out. In addition, in the first half of 2019 the Council has adjudicated or about to adjudicate 46 works amounting to EUR 47.3 million, linked to the 2016-2021 Educational Infrastructure Allocation Plan and surplus funds. Galician educational centers are adapting to be real learning spaces, with educational projects and with adequate infrastructure. After this wide exposure and reaching this point, I would like to point out that we are already working on the preparation of the next 2019-2020 course, which we will face the challenge of planning, regulating and administering mainstream education throughout its scope, levels, degrees, modalities and specialties. A further course will take place from the obligation to organize the activity of educational centres, taking into account educational, demographic, geographic and resource management criteria. Maintain the consolidation of applications and strategies that are allowing the improvement of teaching in English, from bet on languages, technologies and educational innovation. We felt overwhelmed in this task by the fact that Galicia has an early education dropout rate of 14.3% in 2018, fulfilling and improving the target set for 2020 by the European Union of 15% for Spain. Supporting educational centres to improve their coexistence plans, based on the conclusions drawn from the responses of the macro-enquisition educational community carried out this course and whose data are still being evaluated. We hope to have results in September. Enable training measures to co-education, equality and fight against gender violence, directed at students and teachers, under the equality plan in educational centres. Boost attention to diversity and inclusive school. To that end, we will develop several measures within an inclusion strategy that places, among other issues, the dissemination between teachers and families of various educational care protocols to students, including those already completed this course — some of them already presented — on hearing impairment or high capacity; and we are preparing the corresponding one to dyslexia or other specific learning difficulties. Another measure that we consider important is the Plan for the dynamization of vocational and vocational guidance in the education centres in Galicia, which will cover all educational stages and will include the training of teachers and guides and guides, the transfer of information on the various academic and labor options and the empowerment of good practices. I want to stop here to explain that all public primary and secondary schools in Galicia have mentors — close to 800 — and that they are supported by the guidance departments and specific guidance teams. Well, we've been working to progressively cope with the provision of a second mentor in higher education schools. So in the next course, we intend to consolidate the work done in vocational training in Galicia and advance innovation through a new FP offer adapted to Galicia's educational and work needs, which will cover the different modalities of these teachings, but with special attention to dual FP, since we have increased by almost 60% the offer in this mode, with 73 projects. As we commit ourselves and as a novelty, we put in place the professional foreign language module, to be implemented in the course 2019-2020 in the cycles and language module. Definition and execution of the Galician strategy of FP 2020-2030, to improve professional and entrepreneurial skills, which will cover measures in dual FP, internationalisation, greater involvement of business tissue, promotion of R & D+i applied to pemes, and foundation of new companies, attention to the needs of new professional profiles, and training for the challenges of the next decades. And the creation of the Galego Centre for Innovation of FP in Ourense, called to be the engine of innovation and entrepreneurship in vocational training and to foster synergies in the productive sector, through the transfer of knowledge from the centres to the industry. At this point and before I focus on the university course, I want to refer to the bachelor's degree assessment tests for access to the university, commonly known as ABAU. This year's news would have to be the latest on dates, because, at the request of the three universities to adjust the calendar to the Bologna Plan and ensure the start of the university course, for the first time there will be no exams in September. Thus, when an agreement was reached between the Council and the three universities, the usual call of ABAU was made for the 12th and 14th of June, but for the first time the extraordinary, as you know, joins the 10, 11th and 12th of July, to facilitate precisely that agility at the beginning of the university course. It seems that this fact has been overshadowed and the focus of attention is, on the one hand, in the debate on the need for formulae for unification and coordination of evidence of access to the university, which guarantees equality and equality of opportunity in the state as a whole. And, on the other hand, the unfortunate mistake that has occurred in connection with the examination of Philosophy, which is specific matter, and which led to the delay of one of the evidence and the consequent inconveniences to the student concerned. In the first instance, the Council has already sent a letter to the Central Government in December to give a transfer of the Commission's 4th House agreement on the need to articulate ABAU evidence with the same level of demand and equal opportunities for all students and students, regardless of where they live. In the second case, from the very first moment, the Council asked the authority responsible for the design and application of ABAU, which, as you know, is the Interuniversity Commission in Galicia, to open an internal investigation, to clear responsibility for the mistakes made. I would like to express that there has already been a meeting with the principals and the president of the ICG to address and reflect together on both issues. In analyzing the 2018-2019 university course, I would like to remind you that the functions of the Council come under responsibility for coordinating the Galician university system, always from the point of view of the autonomy of universities, recognized in the constitutional framework. This course began with two new rhetorical teams at the universities of Santiago and Vigo, which, together with the team of the University of Coruña, have a channel of fluent dialogue with the Council, and as a result we work together to improve the offer of titrations adapted to the demands of society and to achieve significant advances in research within the University System of Galicia. The 2018-2019 course was the formal and executive stage of two key documents for the Galician University System: the improvement of the titration map and the University Excellence Plan. Two documents that were previously negotiated and agreed with universities, driven by the Council, to move forward in permanent improvement and in a single interuniversity collaboration process in Spain. The titration map, which marks the roadmap up to 2021, and the University Excellence Plan, which sets the actions to be launched up to 2020, are the basis for maintaining, consolidating and pushing key aspects for the future of our universities such as system efficiency, campus specialization, increasing the employability of titrations, promoting internationalization and boosting research excellence. This 2018-2019 course was the first to enter into force 5 of the 14 new degrees approved in this roadmap roadmap. Rationalization of titrations and specialization is a strategic bet of the Galician Union to adapt traditional structures to the organization of teaching and research. In fact, it seems now that the State Secretariat of Universities, in function, urges the communities to carry out this rationalization that we are already doing in Galicia. The agreement on the guiding principles of academic offer planning, signed by the Council and the three principals in March 2017, is the consensus roadmap until 2021. Besides, under the Plan of Excellence of the Galician university system, four degrees with English groups were offered for the first time. We also took steps to improve international rankings and promoted strategic management courses to research centres. As another of the actions of the plan, the Council of Education, University and Vocational Training convened the awards of academic excellence to the student of official university degree. In its first edition, these awards will award students who have obtained the best grades in the 2017-2018 course in the Galician university system, in each grade course, except for the last grade. From the selection of the best records that the universities themselves will make, each person who is awarded will receive an economic allocation of EUR 1,000 and an accreditation diploma of this distinction. To this end, the Council authorized a total amount of EUR 440,000. The title map and the University Excellence Plan, together with the stable funding of universities, are placing the Galician University System as a national reference, both in teaching and research. A plan that is complemented by the policies promoted by the Council to support the Greek universities, ensuring equal opportunities thanks to the application of Spain's lowest public prices and the provision of additional assistance in addition to the Ministry's scholarships. In view of the latest data, the various calls for Council aid reach the 1,600 beneficiaries annually. Finally, in this review of the situation of university education in the course that has just ended, I would also like to highlight the fact that last March 26th took place the first Government Board of the Interuniversity Consortium of the University System of Galicia, provided for in the Law of the University System of Galicia, the instance of the universities themselves. It is a new body, with its own legal personality and a member of the University of Santiago de Compostela, although it also has representation of the Union and the universities of Coruña and Vigo. The aim of this entity is to promote the cooperation of the three university institutions in the field of organization, in economic matters, in technical matters, in administrative matters, with the aim of achieving greater quality and efficiency in the Galician university system. Another of the fundamental axes of university policies is the reinforcement of Galician university research through the call for aid and the articulation of a differential model, by and for our community. The Council maintained its commitment to the nearly five hundred young researchers who have a training career of up to eight years: their contracts are fully assumed by the Autonomic Administration and, even so, we have maintained the co-financing of research contracts captured by universities in national calls. This year we have 214 competitive reference groups, and with growth potential, as well as 15 centers with great potential to obtain synergies within and outside the University System of Galicia, structured in: 5 singular research centers; 2 consolidated strategic groupings; 7 others in formation and 1 Maria de Maeztu. Ladies and gentlemen, one more course is shown the effort made in Galicia to have a system supported by four pillars of support for university research: training, recruitment and retention of talent, research groups, and large structures. So far here are the main lines of work done in recent months, but I also want to explain some of the measures already taken for the next course 2019-2020. In Galicia, once studied the possible repercussions on the social and academic environment, it was agreed to freeze public prices again to embark on official university studies for the 2019-2020 course. The decree of university prices favours the entire student enrolled in the Galician university system, at any of its levels: degree, master and doctorate. If we take account of the average credit prices in Spain in the past course, Galicia has always been under the state average. On the other hand, the three Greek universities will give for the first time four new degrees in the next course 2019-2020, which are: degree in Science and Data Engineering on the campus of Coruña; degree in Digital Creation, Animation and Video Games on the campus of Coruña; degree in Digital Management of Information and Documentation on the campus of Ferrol, and degree in Robotics on the campus of Lugo. As agreed on in the title map of the Galician University System for the period 2017-2021, signed by the three universities to maintain the current offer, the entry of four new titles for the next course responds to the principle of maintaining the proper size of the system, taking into account the progressive drop of students in Galicia. Therefore, the adjustment to the entry of new titles and the exit of others without just a request already appeared in the road map of the titles on the Welsh campus, supported by the three universities. Moreover, the College of Education, University and Vocational Training, for the first time and after several years, has allowed to increase the offer of squares in nine degrees that in recent years were not sufficient to meet existing demand and that have high graduation and employability rates. The result of these adjustments, which have been authorised in view of the balance of supply within the Galician university system, is expected that for the first time in Galicia the coverage rate of the offered squares will exceed ninety percent when the next course registration process is completed. With regard to the planning of the bid, I want to move forward that next July we will have complete and up-to-date information on the professional profiles with projection. At the initiative of the Council, in collaboration with Fundación Empresa-Università-Galga, the Galicia 2030 study was conducted: Professional profiles of the future and new titles and university specialities, a document that we hope will be useful for the Greeks and the Greeks. Continuing the work already done over the past six years, for the next course we will take significant steps in the process of accreditation of campuses of specialization, driven by the Council with the objective of promoting a territorial organization aimed at strategic differentiation, as well as the drive for research work and the improvement of the quality of teaching. This accreditation procedure is a pioneer at the state level and will remain open on a permanent basis. It's about universities incorporating their specialization projects when they think they're mature enough to overcome external evaluation. Once the campus exceeds the evaluation and receives the corresponding accreditation, the Council will sign an agreement to commit to three years the necessary resources included by the university in its campus operational plan. In the next course we will further implement the specific action to ensure a stable line of funding for research centres for the period 2019-2022, giving continuity to the existing one at present. Together with the autonomous aid already consolidated for the recruitment of researchers by universities, we will allow Galicia to retain the talent of the best post-doctoral researchers trained in the Greek universities and provide Galicia with talent abroad, mainly from foreign research centres, through aid in recruiting more post-doctoral researchers under the mode of distinguished researchers. As you see, in terms of education and university, in Galicia there's a lot of work done, but there's also a lot of work to do every day. The Inger Enkvist Pedagogue argues that a prolonged effort is needed to improve anything. I can assure you that all of us who are part of the Council of Education, University and Vocational Training commit a long-term effort to ensure that Galicia can maintain and improve a defined educational and university model and a differentiated educational and university model that serves as an example for the rest of the State communities. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u140	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u141	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Good afternoon, too, Counselor. The truth is, with the mackerel they've been giving for fifteen days with the university access tests, the truth is, I thought you were going through a little bit of stitches on this issue. I don't know if you've been finding any support over these fifteen days when they gave — I insist — the mackerel up to satiety with the university access tests, now ABAU — the old selectivity, to understand us all. He referred to a parliamentary agreement; well, he was actually a Juan Palomo of the People's Party: "I taste it, I eat it." They were, obviously, alone, because none of the other political forces represented in the House supported this initiative, to which we — I say, too — after hearing more or less silent during these fifteen days — at least since the BNG — we also wanted to give an answer, taking advantage of their appearance on the occasion of the end of the course, advisor, also to give an answer — I insist — to that supposed created controversy, which seems to have emerged we do not know very well as, so a little of nothing has appeared, and with which we have been living — I insist — over the last fifteen days almost like a monothema. Behind this proposal that the People's Party is supposed to create a single proof of access to university for the state as a whole, there is nothing to look for ways to solve a sort of discrimination that exists towards the student in our country. Over the course of these days, we could see what the arguments were, and they're far away from trying to respond to that supposed discrimination. What we see behind this absolutely artificial controversy is the same centralist speech as ever. [[Applause]] What we ask of them is a little bit of blush, a little bit of shame or restraint, too, when we express the arguments and at least they don't lie. There is no supposed defence of equality of opportunity, but again bombarding self-government by itself that has this country to preach to the interests of this centralist strategy orchestrated by the People's Party from Madrid. Memory is selective and often small, but if we remember what was said a few months ago, we understand a little more that offensive and artificial controversy around the university access tests. They will remember their lordships or what they were saying a few months ago since the high instances of the People's Party in Madrid; they said: "What do the autonomys paint by saying whether you only study the river of your people or what language do you have to speak in recreation?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh This is the level of ignorance and the most absolute contempt, of the apologetics of burramia — if I may — with which we have to live day by day. [[Applause]] And it's a lie! I also believe that we must take advantage of the opportunity given by this forum and this parliament to reject the fallacy with which this centralist speech has been held in recent weeks. It's a lie that a single test guarantees greater equity. It is absolutely false because, to begin with — I want to think that everyone here knows — ABAU represents 40 percent of the note; the remaining 60 percent depends on the bachelor's degree, so, the centers, so, the professor's. All this invention — we insist — reflects only a huge disregard for the self-government of this country, and we are very afraid that it will not be the last. And with this we also come into the second question where we wanted to focus, since BNG, this intervention. Galicia has forty-five percent competences in relation to the academic curriculum. As a nation with its own language, that decision-making capacity goes beyond the exam or language and literature of Galegas. Then we'll talk about the Greek language in teaching, which we've been used to since the Council of Education there's nothing to talk about the obligation to normalize the uses of the Greek language from the classroom as well. That forty-five percent — I insist — of decision-making capacity allows us to adapt content to the economic reality and to the social, cultural and linguistic reality of our country. What we propose to them is that they break with that uniforming vision, which only makes us impoverish our country and collectively nullify us as a people, and that they exercise self-government. Let us propose to them -- not the first time we do it -- that we repeat it today -- that we develop the competences that this country has recognized, even if they are limited, with a Greek law of education. And if what we really want to talk about is inequality, if what we really want to talk about is barriers, what we have to talk about — because they know it's the truly discriminatory, which is the weight that exists among our country's students — is the socio-economic situation of families, of the social class, which is what marks a rift between people in our country. And here we come — I insist — to the second question on which we wanted to focus, from the BNG, our intervention in this appearance. If we want to talk about equity, inclusive education, equality and social justice, what we need to talk about is budgets. We have heard absolutely nothing about what is planned to be done with the budgets of the Education Council for the course that will start from September. The Education Council — we have also seen it denounce for some time now — maintains a cumulative cut of more than two billion euros since 2010. We're talking about recovering short-term teachers; public job offers haven't been able to recover all the educational squares we've lost in the years of the economic crisis. We're talking about ratios, how to compute the student who repeats and who needs a more personalized and specific attention in every light as well. We're talking about these student ratios by class, because that's closely related to the attention to diversity and the quality of education. We're talking about recovering the school hours that have been lost since 2009, because here we also have a key piece -- we insist a lot on this -- in attention to diversity, personalized attention and the quality of the education system. We are talking — and you are talking about — of the grouped centres and also of the primary and primary rural centres, which will be represented in these new bodies that you have created in connection with the joint directives. We have to talk about rural education and how to guarantee basic services and rights as a way to overcome the demographic crisis. We have two examples that were the basis for debate in this Chamber, in Commission 4a, on a regular basis, as can be those schools of St Matthew of Oliveira, in Ponteareas, or Pedroso, in Narón. Having registration, because the families had the will — after the Junta had closed these centres — to keep these unitary schools alive, Junta insists on not wanting to reopen them, despite the false promises — we already know — that were made to them at their own time. We must talk, in order to care for special educational needs, about strengthening guidance teams. Now you were talking about this second figure of guidance or guidance in the centers with more students. Which centers? How much for a student? And with what budget? We still need more personal hearing and language, more PT and, above all, to keep in mind something that we think doesn't have much in mind about the Galician Union and the People's Party: technological innovation is good, it's good to incorporate computers into the classrooms, actually; but the digital revolution hasn't yet replaced the professor. Without enough human and economic resources to guarantee a quality of education according to the rights of students and students in our country, however many computers we put on, smart screens won't replace teaching teams. And then -- because it won't stay much longer -- there are two questions we wanted to put on the table. One told her before: to talk about the situation that the Greek language lives in the teaching of our country. The BNG has brought in the previous plenary session — their lordships will remember — a bill to shield the official character and vehicle of the Greek in teaching, which in no case goes to the detriment of the learning of other foreign languages in our country, and to update a law that has been passed thirty years ago in a socio-linguistic reality that is completely different from what we currently have, always with the objective and the horizon of fulfilling the obligation to promote linguistic normalization in all areas, contrary to what is now happening, advisor; on the contrary. The Academy said it in its latest reports: the school has become and has become a disqualifying agent, and there you have the utmost responsibility. And finally — and this is what I have done, President — we want to talk about university funding. You were talking about excellence; we've said it many times: excellence, no economic resources, you can't even ask. We're talking about older teachers and absolutely unsustainable precariousness between teachers and researchers. We've brought a specific case of what we've had, in addition, knowledge these days since the Nationalist Block Galego, which has to do with the convening of this 2019 post-doctoral scholarships; you talked about post-doctorals in your intervention. This year's call will leave in limbo for five months researchers and researchers, penalizing, in addition — which seems extremely serious to us — those people who have received a maternity or paternity leave. Tell me that you — or at least the Council — already know this situation: five months without a contract, in limbo, paralyzing all the research work they've been doing. What we want to know today is what solution they're going to put on the table in the Council so...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u142	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u143	...this situation — it is over — cannot even happen when the contracts currently signed on June 30, 2019. We insist — and with this really ending — that the problem is not the proofs of access to the university, they are not artificial debates that are completely maliciously created to bombard the limited self-government we have in our country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u145	If we really want to talk about equity, social justice and social inclusion, we have to address such issues as those referred to in my speech.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u146	Thanks, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u147	Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u148	Thank you. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. I've seen and read audits with fewer figures than you told us in your intervention. I believe that we have attended the first parliamentary act of this long precaution which is being brought together by the People's Party. Because -- and I'm telling you from respect -- you came to expose yourself in your intervention as something new and as something truly commendable, which is the ordinary management of the education system. Not everything; there are, of course, innovations that I will try to mention and even recognize, but most of what you said corresponds to programs that are already started, some of them with quite a small success. But in any case — I insist — it's ordinary management; little novelty, a lot of figures and a lot of self-propaganda. Mrs. Rodil was right that we thought — I think all — that you would come to explain here, at least in an extensive way since you have no time limit, what was the real reason or what is the position of the People's Party in Galicia and its Council regarding the evaluation of the Bachelorate for access to university, because, in fact, a curious, picturesque and minority controversy has been generated in recent weeks about this assessment test. The fact is that the People's Party in Congress of Deputies has registered a non-law proposal consistently based on false arguments. They tell their colleagues in Madrid that the test, far from being accepted as fair and equitable, provokes criticism of the disparity of the results of the bachelor's evaluation for access to university; criticisms that are frequent and recurrent. Frequent and recurrent are two concepts which, of course, overlap to a certain extent, because something that happens recurrently occurs frequently. The problem is, in this case, it's neither recurrent nor frequent. It is a controversy that began last year, not in this autonomous community, but in a neighbour — which I have not to mention — on the part of the president of that autonomous community, more specifically on the part of the adviser of that autonomous community, and that he has found no more support than in the Autonomous Community of Galicia; for something will be: because there is not such a complaint, nor is it so frequent or so recurrent. You're told that this evidence distorts from the perspective of equity and efficiency, and there's a growing demand that this evidence be equal throughout the Spanish territory. They're false arguments behind each other, and you know it perfectly, and that's why I think you minimized it or practically reduced it to a minimum, because something had to say considering that some qualified voice from the People's Party said that you would explain in this audience what the position of the People's Party was about; position that they either had not been clear, or either changed, or the speaker in question was not well informed. You know that the Rectors themselves, the Rectors Conference ensures that there is no academic report supporting contrasted [sic] data that there is easier evidence in universities than in others. That's reality, that's what the Rectors say, that is to say, those responsible for administering these evidences in the autonomous communities. So what they insist on is that it's a proof that works well and that any attempt to change it should be done from the broadest educational consensus and after a rigorous analysis of reality. And they recognize — you know, too, and I think you agree as an education specialist that is — that there are other more socio-economic factors that can explain the differences that can be presented in students' results. And, by ending this extensive and verbal debate, what do you tell me about the prediction that existed in LOMCE? That law of that particular minister that wasn't even approved... well, adopted yes, but it did not provoke the unanimous applause of the People's Party itself in the Congress of Deputies; that law of former Minister Wert, that Act of organic for the improvement of the quality of education that required universities or faculties to be able to put specific evidence. Do you want to further disintegrate the access system and now you come to claim a single system for the entire state, when the law itself provides that specific tests could be made at some colleges or universities? That's reality; it seems a little incongruent speech. You have also spoken, a bit above, of this famous dual vocational training network, about which this parliamentary group I represent has presented a non-legislative proposal — without success — which is the one that unites the opposition groups — to evaluate the implementation of this dual vocational training dynamisation network; a network that you say will cost five million euros in two years. I suppose it basically refers to the wages of all the teachers who are absolutely free from any teaching burden to devote themselves exclusively to the one you don't know very well that. And the problem is not that we don't know very well what, but I think you don't know very well what you're going to do, and that's absolutely sad. Because not knowing the opposition can be part of the democratic game, but not knowing it, the corresponding administration is, in fact, worrying. [[Applause]] It is a dual vocational training dynamisation network that will release all those teachers of educational burden; liberation that does not — I believe — any teacher who devotes himself to school management — that you rightly made reference and recognition—, except eventually some integrated center that, by its singularities, seems to deserve that the management team does not devote any of its hours of work to the educational activity and only to the management of that centre. You spoke — I insist — about ordinary management as something new. You mentioned that the provincial and autonomous board of directors have been set up, but there are plenty of courses going on! How do you come here to say that they are now constituted? Is it something ex-new? No, it's not; they were already. What if I recognize you — and I congratulate you publicly in this parliament — is the launching of this school management website. It seems to me to be a necessary initiative and, therefore, I think it is also fair to acknowledge that it is something that should have been done before and that it is good news to be done at this moment. You talked about the creation of the biggest public job offer in the last ten years, of course, you and the rest of the state. Thanks to the freezing of Mr Rajoy's governments of the public job offer in all fields, particularly in teachers, now that there is another government in the state that has allowed this situation to be unlocked, it is logical that the number of interintensities should be reduced and, therefore, large public job offers — I insist — are not exclusive to this autonomous community. This parliamentary group systematically presents, session period after session, global initiatives with the sole aim of trying to improve Galicia's education system. Because we believe that, for example, it is not a receipt -- and that's something that you could easily solve with an instruction -- that there are centers where you've been teaching in guards and if you prevent teachers from sharing subjects because there's a low number of students -- but not only a low number of students, but they're subjects that will then enter the bachelor's degree test for access to university. That's what they have to do; we presented initiatives and they told us they didn't, that these students could go to teach in a distance. Do you trust a student or a 17-year-old student to whom you're told that you can make a matter away from the bachelor's school? Do you think that represents a decent and modern education system, especially -- I insist -- when we have teachers keeping watch instead of teaching? I think, frankly, that's something that needs to be improved. As time is scarce for the broad competences that your Council has, I will go directly to what it refers to in university education. The Greek universities have been undergoing all kinds of cuts for nine years — nine! — of funding, staff and, in general, of all resources. The principals of the universities have long stated that it is not possible to follow this path of restrictions of all kinds and that it is urgent to review the funding plan of the University System in Galicia so that it can be sustainable, claiming, in addition, that more funds are provided to the structural side, which is clearly insufficient to finance the structure of universities. They all believe that it is necessary to increase this funding, because today it has not reached one percent of GDP, which was a goal promised by the Galician Union in 2015; that is, four years ago, and we are still there. Look, to finish: it's important to reward good students, of course, yes; but it's more important to achieve equity and get no student out of economic problems. Our parliamentary group proposed, also unsuccessful, that it should stop adding this collection, because it is proposed and almost unsuccessful are isomorphic, that it was the rates of the first free registration, and we also proposed that this progression should be made over four years, and the People's Party voted against it. The universities, Counsellor, are meeting above your budget, and you know that too, because you have lowered funding for R & D and, in addition, about thirty percent of that funding already low or run. Getting talent is important; it would be more important to prevent it from happening at the moment, which they haven't done. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u150	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u151	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Good afternoon, Counselor. The truth is, we like to see you here with us today, reporting on the work of your Counsellor. I will not deny that what we would really like to be able to do this kind of appearances based on some previous working paper; see black on white plans, projects and the figures that support them, not a background race of projects and programs launched in the air one after the other, which makes it really complicated to be able to debate in depth about the education policy of the German Government. In any case, shows are always welcome. We are confident that this is not the last time he comes in this parliament to occupy this position. And, you see, why would we say that? Because, as I am sure you understand, we have reasonable doubts as to whether this Council will be kept in time. Recently President Feijóo expressed his commitment to re-centralizing educational competences which he still manages the Council of Galicia from his office. The matter almost caught us by surprise; we knew well the president's interest in leaving Galicia, what we didn't know was that he intended to run away from the Greek Government while taking on his competences of the autonomy of the Greek Government, and this certainly concerns us a lot more. [[Murmurs.]] I think you're very keen on speaking. [[The President said words that were not understood.]] What the president said was that he was in favour of a test of unique selectivity for the whole state; it seems that with him the Government of Galicia is not able to offer sufficient guarantees of quality and equanimity to the student of Galicia. Mr. Núñez Feijóo tried to disguise this clearly political position as if it were a technical matter, but we know that reality is different. The demand for a single selectivity is nothing more than a cowardly and dishonest excuse that always clings to — now and again — the People's Party to defend what it has always defended: a uniform Spain in which there is no room for national plurality, for different identities and for rich and diverse cultures. And there, Counselor, as you will understand, you will always have to face. It wasn't the only one, of course not! The three rights seem to have found in this a battle horse to match, for at the same time that Feijóo was whining asking the central government to release him from educational skills that you see he does not want to attend, the citizen culture manager said almost the same: that the exam was one of the most difficult and that they would continue to demand the same model of exercise throughout Spain. According to it, the set on the right shares exactly the argumentary of the president of Galicia's board in which he reaches this test: the peculiarities of Galicia are a huge problem; the examination of Greek is, in fact, one of the most difficult; therefore, demand to renounce competences and centralize policies. We'd like it to be clear about your opinion, because that's why we have to add also, of course, CRTVG's opinion issued exactly on this line, saying that the German student was losing, or similar opinions in the voice of Galicia and El Correo Gallego. So, let's see that the set of the political right, coordinated, of course, with their media arms, is working and creating a false alarm for only electoralist purposes. The strategy is not new, we're already suffering from it. That's exactly what was applied in his moment, when he spoke of that supposed language conflict. Let's remember, it's easy: let's go back to that campaign of the 2009 autonomous elections, when the Galician People's Party based all its campaign on spreading lies against Galician. The president himself came to say that we had an unprecedented linguistic conflict on the table created by the bipartisan government itself by that time. He claimed for that reason that he would depolitize and depolitize the language, in the same way that he now intends to defeat selectivity. The thing, in any case, is to attack our identity by generating a sort of permanent crisis. We'd like to, Counselor, that in his turn it was really clear. Do you really share the president's position, which, when asked about this, said the German Government would vote for a single test? Are you really working to do a single test of access to State university? Are you going to be an accomplice in systematic attacks on language and identity from your Counsellor's office? What's going to happen to the Welsh exam then? If we have a single test, will it disappear from the access test? You'll have time to clear it up, please. The most cynical of all this matter is that the reason that it usually stands up to justify the loss of competence is the supposed equality, as if this were ever one of the priorities of the People's Party's Government; it is not so, it is not so, ladies and gentlemen. The current Italian Executive has never cared about equality in the education system, and has demonstrated it on numerous occasions: freezing the stakes directly to university scholarships, precisely those for compensatory scholarships, the most sensitive; eliminating their own shares; cutting staff to meet special educational needs; expanding the ratios by class, when this affects especially students with more difficulties; insuring the repetitive student... It's a lie, as you've just said here, Counselor, that the German Government puts more resources to help families who need it most. It is not our opinion; for example, in a recent report by the Department of Education of the World Bank published by the Foundation for Applied Economic Studies: it has reported that in Galicia the socio-economic condition of students and students affects more the chances of repeating courses and leaving studies than in the rest of the state. In our community, a student or a student with little resources who has the same skills as another with more resources has up to six times more likely to fail academically. This, of course, doesn't happen by chance; it's not a unfortunate coincidence that the children and the children of Greece in a precarious situation fail more than the rest of the girlhood in their own situation. This is because the German Government has long been reducing resources for equal opportunities and transferring them to supposed games of excellence, disguiseing without a face no basic mechanism of fighting inequality in a prize for supposedly better ones. We had another example here today. You came here to speak of a split of four hundred thousand euros for excellence, while in university scholarships you are only destined two hundred thousand euros; i.e. twice as much to reward excellence as the money that is intended directly to cover the student's tuition that was not able to obtain another type of university scholarship. We would like to know about this, Counsellor, why she renounces her Councillorship from having a policy of own university scholarships, adapted to the needs of our student and that she guarantees such basic things as transport or housing, which, as you know, due to the dispersion of the people of Greece, are especially expensive. Are you aware of the enormous effort families and students make to cover all the costs they have to pursue today's university career in this country? Another question we could reflect on, since you talked about free books: when, really, free books in all educational courses? Because that was the model that we had and that you eliminated. Or when is an E-Dixgal truly free? Because you'll remember that a few months ago we talked about this matter and we asked you why families have to pay for the expensive bills of arrangements, more than 300 euros. You said none of this and came here and spoke of E-Dixgal for free; no, free not. When families have to face bills of more than 300 euros, we can't talk about free. Of course, we can't talk about equal opportunities, because unfortunately there are many families in this country that can't handle bills of 300 euros because a computer breaks down. A constant budgetary transvasion, as we have repeatedly denounced, also happens between the public and the concerted process. In the present course, Galicia lost seventy-four classes of children and primary and some four hundred teachers. However, the squares of the concerted schools continue to increase, something that is still very curious. There's no money for the public, there's no education for the public, but dear! there's resources and there's students and students for the concert. How is that possible? For a very simple reason: the cuts in education that we've been having for more than a decade are not merely an economic or management issue, as it stands out, but they hide behind you a real ideological project that should defend with courage. The People's Party, now in the Government of Galicia, but there's not even very little in the Government of the State, has cut in the public to continue to bet on an educational model based on competitiveness, a model that is not only equalitarian, but also not even efficient. The cuts were especially hard for rural schools too: there were many units that closed and many girls and children who had to leave their schools. We have a very recent example that I want to put on the table: Naron's unit school. You'll remember it was closed in June 2018 for not getting six students, which is the minimum number. The Board assured at that time, in the face of the protest of the parents and mothers, that the closure was not definitive, but could be revoked in the event that in the next course 2019-2020 the sufficient number of girls and boys were enrolled. Well, the figure was fulfilled, and what did the Council do? Give the silence by answer. We take advantage to ask him: Will you fulfill your promise, Counselor? They reopened Narón's school, as promised? And even more: can you tell us today — not within a month, when we are not in a parliamentary period — how many schools are planning to close this course? Because we've seen how your predecessor in charge liked to make these announcements just when there was no session period and we had no chance to discuss this issue in Parliament. Please, we'd be grateful to know as soon as possible. Finally, Counsellor, it seems intolerable to us that your group and you go up here to assume equality and inclusion in education while further funding is being extended to schools that segregate the student by sex. We will repeat it every time it is necessary; we know that we are stubborn, but we have the impression that two fundamental issues are missing from the People's Party: the first is that we live in the twenty-first century, not in the Middle Ages where religious congregations that are financed from the Government seem to be permanently installed; the second is that virtue defends itself with the example and not only with the word. If it is true that the Teaching Council bets on equality, stop financing right now, without delay, the schools that discriminate against sex and end at once with the ridiculous biases of Opus Dei. That would be an example; that would undoubtedly be a bet on equality. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u153	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Counsellor, welcome to this chamber to tell how the school course has developed that we are about to finish at all levels. Let me start, like the rest of my colleagues, talking about ABAU, how it couldn't be any other way. Mrs. Rodil, you're talking about controversy: there's no controversy; the controversy, perhaps, is being instituted by BNG. What we have is a debate; a debate shared not only by the Community of Galicia, but by other autonomous communities and by more than one hundred and eighty thousand students who have gathered signatures claiming a change in proof to bet on equal opportunities. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Alvarez, the PSOE position we already know, PSOE's position on ABAU is written in the preliminary draft law that you've kept in a drawer, because they're at other things: it's to return to selectivity, it's to return to that selectivity that most of us have done at their own time. Of course, you qualify that existence of inequality that we say is picturesque. Ask the students that they can't get into a few tenths of the race they want to do; ask them, see if they agree with you. Look, headline: "Great differences in the approved index in selectivity: 95% in Las Palmas"—leoo because it's in Spanish—, "75% in Santiago". It could be today or tomorrow, but no; it's 1992, El País. [[Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez shows you a document to the members of the House.]] Then we'll talk about it. Mrs. Chao, you claim documents: it's easy; you have your hand on the Council page and the Official Journal of Galicia. Here you find all the information you need to know that you are moving in education in Galicia. [[Applause]] Because, indeed, Galicia has a consolidated educational model, a differentiated model based on the conviction that educational centres should be not only learning spaces, but also real talent development engines and individual capacities. That's why the Council is right when it claims that the educational process is something different, multidisciplinary and inclusive, and that's why the Council is right when it works to ensure that educational centres develop their activities in a climate of coexistence, equity and social justice. The good march of education in Galicia is possible by the involvement of the entire educational community. The leadership of the Self-Government in the exercise of its powers without a commitment from all the agents that make up the educational community could hardly face the processes of change necessary to accommodate the system to reality. So it seems important to us to highlight some of the aspects that you commented on in your exhibition and that were also commented on by my colleagues. There is a unanimous consensus about the essential work of the professor and the management teams. In this course, the momentum of the Galician Union has, as you said, allowed the remuneration agreement agreed with the unions to be put in place, placing the remuneration of the Greek agents above the national average. Here we must remember that it was this collective who suffered, like the rest of the employees in the service of public administrations, the drastic cuts of his salary, with a drop of almost five percent of the Socialist Government of Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero. It has also allowed to approve and carry out new public job offers with more than two thousand six hundred squares in thirty-six sections, including Portuguese squares, in compliance with the mandate of this chamber and with the Peace Andrade Act, which will allow greater stability and the reduction of the interim rate, which is already the lowest in the entire state. Galicia, despite the economic crisis that others denied until it fell like a slate, has always maintained the call for opposition, except in 2013, it's true, but that's a balance of more than 9,000 squares offered in these ten years. No, Mr. Álvarez, it is not the merit of Mr. Sánchez; it is the merit of Mr. Feijóo's government. This allows the teacher-student ratio to be lower than the state average and much more than in other autonomous communities such as Madrid or Catalonia. Really, Mr. Álvarez, do you think we have teachers making guards instead of teaching? Yeah? [[Various Members: Yes!]] Well, unfortunately, we have to say no. The action of this Council was also interesting in those new tools that you highlighted, to help improve the management and reorganization of teaching centres, such as the Management Portal. But he also did a great job of continuing the continuing formation of the faculty through the CAFI, to strengthen training tools in foreign languages or as important matters as equality. Collaboration with the Greek university system has also been initiated to deepen research and innovation in early childhood and primary education. Another aspect that we want to highlight is the impetus to vocational training. Why? Because we find that the reluctance and scepticism of the opposition groups will remain in the anecdotal of the Journal of Sessions of this Chamber by seeing the results of the Government's strong commitment to renew vocational training and, above all, by introducing dual vocational training into our system. The Galician Union, alongside the entire educational community and the business society, was able to turn it around to this modality of teaching that was desisted. Two data you were commenting on are eloquent: the important increase in the level of enrolment of students and the level of employment insertion, 85.9% in ordinary vocational training and 90.7% in dual vocational training. This course, the Council has taken two important steps which the advisor has just appointed: the plan for the dynamization of dual vocational training, with an investment of five million euros — for the plan, Mr Álvarez, not only for the network – and precisely these five million euros, which will allow to be extended to include the offer in coordination with Galicia's productive fabric, particularly in those sectors that are considered to be pointers, betting for internationalisation and research; and also to approve the creation of the Greek Centre for Innovation in Ourense, thanks to the responsibility and height of the eyes of the MP, to the detriment of other geographic areas of this autonomous community, as you all know. And we're moving on to the university system, because the university system is also opening up some vital pathways and actions for its future, as are the implementation of the Title Map, which has been long worked in recent times, and the University Excellence Plan, a real roadmap for Greek universities to be competitive and innovative, giving students sufficient tools to develop with solvency and professionalism in the world of work. The Council is firmly committed by the public university, ladies and gentlemen, with stable funding for universities, so that they have a safe horizon and a secure future. It's the third autonomous community with a higher percentage of university funding in relation to GDP. We also maintained, as the advisor said, very low university rates, allowing for majority access by young people and young people in Greece, and also investing in a training career for researchers up to 8 years old. And also helping with the funding of researchers captured by universities. In this course began the walk of the Interuniversity Consortium of the University System of Galicia, a new body that will allow an important boost in the coordinated training and research of our universities in the future Fontán building. Counsellor, we have heard voices concerned about the establishment of a private university in Galicia. Let's see him tomorrow in this Chamber. It is surprising that opposition groups have made a priori positions contrary to an initiative of this calibre. First, because it's collected in the law of the Greek university system and, therefore, if the project meets the law, there will be nothing to object to. Secondly, because there are about 40 private universities throughout Spain, none in our community, created under the watchful gaze of the Socialist Party, who opened the country's doors to private universities thanks to the decrees of the years 1991 and 1995, which facilitated the entry of teaching companies. And thirdly, because even the principals themselves expressed their conformity, as long as that campus in Abanca means complementing the existing campuses. But, of course, the demonstration of private entrepreneurship to the whole opposition seems to give a bit of a whim, at least to the groups of the Nationalist Block Galego and En Marea, we see it in every plenary. Private companies, only those I like; private universities and private centers, go back; other languages, only if they're close to us! Ladies and gentlemen, freedom is above particular political thoughts, and it is precisely about instilling the culture of effort, the culture of entrepreneurship and personal freedom as values of the system, and you only want to make subsidised citizens. And finally I would like to point out the effort to make our system an inclusive and equal education model, with that approval of the school coexistence strategy you were discussing, so that there is no discrimination between men and women by sex identity, to break up the gender gap in STEM studies, so that the income level is not a problem, so important resources are allocated, as you said at the beginning, for transport, for school lunchers or for textbooks. To live in rural doesn't mean to give up a quality teaching, or to have different abilities not to be a brake, but an opportunity. And it's true, this is all going on in Galicia. Because the Greek education system already represents a very high inclusion rate, as you said and recalled: 92.7% of students with special educational needs are integrated into the ordinary centres. And we're not buyers, we're realistic and demanding, and it's not just about integrating but about providing tools and resources to the entire educational community to meet diversity, so every year budgets increase in education. Resources that allow you to work on new protocols — auditory disability, high capacity, dyslexia — as you said. Resources for the design and implementation of the plan for the dynamization of vocational and vocational guidance in educational centres that will affect all educational stages and will gradually increase the guidance role in secondary schools with more students. I'm done. It is not surprising that opposition groups only see shadows in the educational system and do not value the path they have been walking these 10 years, which has been a lot and in the right direction. The discourse by En Marea-section We can continue to try to convey that this is a chaos, they are installed in the discourse of chaos, perhaps mimicked by their own internal situation. They're trying to cheat the Galician society with that catastrophic speech, which we see nobody buys it anymore, Mrs. Chao, and it's more serious because they base that speech on falsehoods that constantly repeat...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u154	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u155	...unless they know it's not true, and as an example the closure of school. On this subject, it is curious and incomprehensible, both by Mrs Rodil and by Mr Álvarez, that they follow this speech by En Marea. Because what PP does is to apply the decree you passed in the Bipartite. One day, Mr. Álvarez, he may tell us how many unit schools he has closed and how many centers he has reordered at his Bipartite delegate stage...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio. Time's up. [[Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Replica, advisor of Education, University and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u157	Thank you, President. I'd like your speeches, ladies and gentlemen, to find a point of objectivity, a point of objectivity enough to allow us to conclude that the teaching of Greek and our universities are a reference in the state. It's not what the Council says, it's a tangible conclusion from both quantitative and qualitative results. It's the facts that build the real story that explains a very different educational reality than you, with serious criticisms, rather than a series of criticisms, intend to create. On the one hand, Mr Álvarez, I may not have expressed myself clearly enough, but the novelties concerning the Board of Directors and Directors are, on the one hand, parity and, on the other, representations of the CRAs and integrated vocational training centres, as important as I said, for the development of rural areas. I also have to tell you that my appearance is to report on the situation of university education in Galicia at the end of the 2018-2019 course. I'm sorry their expectations were different. Of course, they cry out that they're still talking about ABAU. This turns out to be somewhat paradoxical, or very paradoxical, when they talk about speech. It's very curious the simplistic exercise they submit to this subject, led by a purely ideological debate. I speak as an education advisor, ergo from Galicia, ergo with self-esteem. The opposition resorted to the argument of a supposed intention to recentralise ABAU and even teaching. I want to make it clear that the Galician Union aspires to more and better self-government, according to our constitutional status of historical nationality as Greeks and Greeks. The priority is not to enter into an artificial debate on competences, the priority is to analyze all possibilities — the single test and others — to decide better if, as Mrs Anton said, we can solve a situation that exists, I don't know if you can call anything to 178,000 signatures, which are the signatures that have been presented in the last few years of the state-wide student. Moreover, the minister himself in included functions speaks of a situation that exists. Since June, we believe it would be good to refer to measures that lead to a common and similar model of evidence that guarantee equal opportunities throughout the State. This position has been tried to reach consensus through a unanimous agreement by Parliament, which has not been possible but has come forward with the support of the majority group. It doesn't seem logical that autonomous communities that have a higher academic level in the comparative balance of ABAU notes are below average, and I don't say so. The system has a unique mobility district, following the test notes, but not the design, and not the levels of demand. And because of this you can generate these inequalities that worry you and those that always appeal to you again and again when you talk about that equal opportunity speech. We must remember that the possibility of performing a common state-level test to access university was already contemplated in that demonized law of which Mr. Álvarez spoke, the LOMCE, and sometimes you cannot confuse everything with the parties. In LOMCE, it was established that "universities may agree to the joint implementation of all or part of the admission procedures—repeat, all or part of them—which establish as well as mutual recognition of the results of the evaluations carried out in the admission procedures." What doesn't seem to be receipt anymore is to propose, as BNG has done, the absolute suppression of university access tests, obviously responding to a form of selection and organization motivated by the squares available in certain titles. Look, nationalism tends to isolate us, it doesn't contain us to leave our future university students isolated and without opportunity. And, Mrs. Rodil, since it was so welcome for you the appointment I made of Bauman in a previous appearance, I also take advantage of one of his phrases, repeated in the retrotopy work, to affirm that "insulation is a deceptive temptation." [[Murmurs.]] It refers to the mixture in contemporary, diverse and mixed societies, but let's not forget that Galicia's doors must also be opened in a centrifugal way. [[Applause]] Indeed, Mr Álvarez, the 25% of the squares that are convened at the OPE must be of internal promotion by Article 80 of Law 2/2015 — which you know very well — of the public employment of Galicia on 29 April. This has been the case with all the legislation, and I remind you that who opened the freezing of the oppositions was precisely Mr. Zapatero's Government in 2010. Mrs. Rodil, respecting the constitutional framework, Galicia has a linguistic model based on the Autonomic Law of Linguistic Standardization, in which both languages have equal treatment and vehicle use. The language substitution process that denounces the opposition, in particular its group, is not the sole responsibility of the school. The main task of teaching is to ensure language knowledge. The studies that we have say that the school is currently fulfilling its mission, with levels of knowledge among the youth that rub 90% and that exceed those of any other co-official language. On his day, the decree of multilingualism responded to an existing social unrest before his approval, and above all it was promoted as the best formula to ensure both the knowledge of the co-official languages and a foreign language. The results go hand in hand: I'm already referring to the fact that both the knowledge of Greek and English is constantly improving. I insist, we defend the singularity and identity of ourselves, but we do not share nationalistic postulates so that the Greeks and the Greeks are isolated in the world. As for the use of Greek as a vehicle language in university, we must remember that the constitutional framework recognizes the autonomy of universities and that they — these universities — must set the percentages of use of Greek in university classes. I think the debate on rural education is out of focus. It's not about questioning the value of these centers, at all, but about admitting that their reason for being is the student service. Thus, the existence and good functioning of rural units and centers is directly related to the real presence of children and girls in classes. The Union bets on teaching in rural areas and on contributing to the roots of the population when it keeps schools open that have six students who attend the class, and also when it does groupings. As much as they intend to transfer another reality, the closure of units and the removal of unity is the last — and it must be the last — resource motivated by demographic reality. So he's not in the Education Council or in his intentions to close schools for nothing at all. They are covered, I said, through unitary schools, both separately and integrated in the 28 rural schools grouped, but also, when necessary, open to schooling in other types of schools, even facilitated by the use of school transport and school dining. And also through innovative educational projects, those that I stress strongly value whenever the occasion allows, with visits, with meetings and promoting their space in Galicia's educational system, and not only with economic criteria or with management criteria, but also with pedagogical criteria. When they give improvisation to Council policies they confuse things, because it is necessary to plan and schedule measures, but also the ability to adapt. And it's also curious that they first criticize the Council's drive and initiative, as they did with the adaptation of the supply to the productive sectors, the dual FP bet in Galicia, but then they always ask for more and more and more increases. The German FP is a state-wide reference and follows the line of the main European countries in this area. This is what society is trying to understand, given the interest of many students in running some of the cycles offered with particular attention to the possibilities open to dual FP. I insist that the next course will have a new FP offer adapted to Galicia's educational and work needs, which will cover the different modalities, and with special attention to dual FP. With regard to the dual FP dynamization network, Mr. Álvarez, which does not like the opposition, is an action designed by the Board to meet the planned commitment of collecting companies and creating dual FP markets through the financing, staff and prospecting of companies. The direct relationship of dual FP with companies is obvious. We're responsible and we're committed to FP, because it's teachings that open up a lot of opportunities for our students. I'm sorry that you concentrate your energies on looking for negative readings of something that represents a prosperous future for young people in Greece. Mrs Chao, with regard to university scholarships, I would like to thank you for allowing me in this House to talk about the goings and lives that the Ministry of Education is doing around the scholarships for students is just another demonstration that the current Central Government is sailing aimlessly and programlessly in the educational field. It is urgent to resume the social and political state pact for education, which Rajoy's government has put in place to consensualize solutions around issues like this and that the Socialist Party has broken down and has not reconvened since it came to power. From Galicia we always defend that any changes or changes in education must be made within the framework of this covenant. For our band, the Galician Union, which has shown more of its work in favour of equal opportunity for higher education, in particular for universities, through various calls, has also reiterated the request for transfer with respect to the Ministry's university scholarships to the Autonomous Community. Mrs Chao, I would also like to remind you that the socialist reform of LOMCE — draft law at the moment — does not eliminate differentiated education centres. And I also urge you to cite a single case, a concrete assumption where the presidency of Nuñez Feijóo has ceased to exercise competence and, when he does so, remember to quote the constitutional legal order. Ladies and gentlemen, they wanted autonomous communities governed by the Socialist Party or in coalition to have plans to fund their universities. The German plan for governing university funding was approved unanimously and signed by the three principals. This year, for example, with 420 million, we have the highest direct transfers from the board to the Greek universities in history. The current plan makes it possible to increase the forecast budget by 18% of the public budget. This investment effort is reflected in economic indicators. In fact, and as the last report of the University System Observatory notes, funding for Union to universities amounts to 0.71% of GDP, which makes it the third largest community in terms of GDP. In this sense, it should be remembered that the Greek University Financing Plan is endowed with about EUR 2.480 million of public funding, which means an increase of almost 18% compared to the initial amount set out in the previous plan. I think I have responded to their concerns and criticisms. And allow me now to resume a reflection: can the teaching of Greek and our universities serve as a reference to others? The Council, ladies and gentlemen, believes that yes, Galicia can serve as a reference for a quality educational and university model and bet on talent in the state as a whole. The next few months will be decisive both in the regulation of non-university education and in universities. In this context, Galicia wants to defend its singularities and its model, in addition to ensuring the financing it deserves. We are hoping that there will be an interlocutor in the ministries — if they remain in two — to request a meeting in which the Union will defend the interests of teaching and of the Greek universities from loyalty and general interest. We will formally request a meeting to defend the following issues: The need to take advantage of the work done in the past legislation in Congress in favor of a necessary pact for education in Spain, which repeatedly demands families and teachers. They were fifteen months of work and 80 experts participated in education. We believe that innovative ideas and proposals must be taken advantage of because Galicia plays its future. Faced with other positions that do not respond to the constitutional framework, since Galicia we defend the model of plurilingualism in Greek education, while it can serve as an example for other communities. We believe this language model is useful because it makes the balance between Spanish, Greek and a foreign language compatible. This model implies that teachers have the right language skills in the official languages of the State, so Greek, as its own language and as a co-official language, is a requirement for access to oppositions. The teacher, a key piece in the training of the student. And a recent OECD report alerts you to your preparation, even though the Minister of Education in office today said in the media that teachers were very well prepared. And it is true that we have a clear human potential in our teachers, but we want them to be the key piece of student training. We want to focus on the need to improve initial training and access to the teaching profession by analyzing different formulas such as the creation of an educational IRM, while articulating progress in continuing teacher training. Although we have already sent in December a letter with the parliamentary agreement, we will insist on the need to unify the level of exigencies in ABAUs. The government in functions has announced educational reforms in universities and has to deal with the solution to the injury and discrimination suffered by the student who passes these tests, with different levels and demands depending on the autonomic court that fixes and corrects the examinations. I insist that we analyze the possibility of defining a unique and common test for all Spain or other formulas. But what needs to be guaranteed is a system of control or inspection that allows you to ensure equality — that equality that you always appeal to — of conditions for the entire student. We defend inclusion and specialized care according to the needs of the student. That's why we want to claim to the central government the existence of special education centres, as many families require, but also real inclusion and attention to diversity in ordinary centers. We are prepared to study rigorously the need for budgets and human resources in order to make effective transfers of university scholarships to Galicia. I also use it to say that the budget debate is not today, it is next October. Finally, in view of the possibility of a reform of the scientific and university research system in the whole of Spain, we want to put to value the model of the Greek model, a model that regards the maximum autonomy of universities. We are already closer to getting public funding and linked to the Galician university system what in communities like Catalonia or Basque Country has been achieved thanks to private funding in known Icrea or IkerBasque. By the way, it was some of the trainers who received our researchers in the Plan of Training Research Management Teams and Research Centres. At this moment, Galicia's university research already has a differentiated model that is opening up the way in the current socio-economic context and, among the different approaches with which R & D+i will be addressed in Spain and the world, focused on general aspects of science that have to do with the need for knowledge promotion, with the impulse of a selection of research staff and a research career supported by criteria such as merit, excellence and internationalization. And consolidate good government and good management practices both in universities and research centers. In the university research done by and for Galicia, but, of course, without complexes and with a desire to improve, from the council itself we have supported and promoted the exchange of experiences of researchers and leaders of research centres in Galicia — as I said — with leaders of Icrea and Ikerbasque. And we can all learn from everyone. We should make efforts to make the excellent science that develops in Galicia visible. That our university system is one of the main references when it comes to research in Spain because that's where we belong. The Council will continue its long-term effort to improve, but it will do so from the feeling of pride in the progress made in recent years for education and for the universities in Greece. Galicia, which can serve as a reference, has to serve as a reference for a quality educational and university model and which is affixed by the talent in the state set. That's how we claim it, and so we try to keep moving forward. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u158	Thank you, Counselor. Special round. [[Pause.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u159	Thank you, President. I always like it, and I told you that day, to quote Bauman, because we were close to Marxist thinking, even though we had a difference with Mr. Bauman, obviously, about the national issue. That's an open debate in the bosom of Marxism, it's not new. You said that isolation was a deceptive temptation, quoting Bauman, and that Galliza had to open the doors centrifugally. The problem with this country, Counselor, is that Galicia carries the doors open in a sense out decades, decades! [[Applause]] That is the structural problem, one of the major structural problems in this country. [[Applause]] And between nationalism and cosmopolitanism there is a world, and you can be open to the world absolutely and to the wealth and diversity that represent all the peoples of the world without denying what one is, without denying what one is and is on an equal footing! which is what defends the Greek nationalism, of the left and proud of who we are, of being in the world on equal footing, bringing together the wealth and all knowledge, experience and diversity that Galicia has among the people who inhabit it. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And speaking of that, of being in the world being what one is, proud of what one is, I'll tell you what you said was false that the Greek teaching complied with the Law of linguistic normalization, and that it fulfilled its vocation. The Greek teaching, we said this here in the previous plenary session, precisely when we discussed in response to Mr. Fernández Gil, and we replied that the school, either with the Law of Linguistic Standardization or, above all, with the General Standardization Plan of 2004 in hand, has as a unique and exclusive function that we can read, that we can write and that we know how to express ourselves more or less well in Greek, but it has or constitutes a central element in the process of normalization of uses. And what can't be denied is reality, which is what you want — and we have the presence of the Secretary General, if I don't miss my memory, in the next Commission 4th to talk about, among other things, of this matter — that it is far, in recent years, from the first decades since the adoption of a policy framework which supposedly shielded the linguistic rights of our country, that socio-linguistic reality goes in a completely inverse sense. And to show a button, I think it's good to talk with data, and there we have the successive reports since the year 2012 of the Council of Europe asking the Board of Galicia to repeal that Decree 79/2010 because it violates the European Charter of Minorized Languages. And — I insist — as the academy itself says — I put it here as an example because I want to think that you will have a minimal consideration of a statutory institution, that decree converts the school into a disqualifying agent. We insist, open, with all the centrifugal force but with pride also who we are and what we can, with that identity, bring to the whole world. Some other issues that have been emerging in the debate on controversy, debate, the media, the generation of states of opinion, and the selection of subjects. We don't have time, it's a debate that loves me, political theory and communication, but I recommend two theories of communication, because we're dating, two theories: McCommbs and Shaw, of 1972, about the Agenda Setting, selection of subjects -- I insist -- and generation of states of opinion. And also combined with another of the great theories, Elizabeth Noelle-Neumann and the spiral of silence. It's the square of the circle that was precisely seen perfectly live and live with that absolutely artificial controversy about the alleged inequality or discrimination that generated the evidence of access to the university. Here it was said — I believe — on several occasions: 180,000 signatures, of course, that emanated from Valencia because there were very strong criticisms about the degree of difficulty in examining Mathematics. I'm from Social Sciences, I don't know the degree of difficulty of this test. We propose — and besides it is a historical demand, it is not new — the suppression of selectivity, of those who limit access to university education. And here we also come back... is that it's not an occurrence of the Galician Nationalist Block, there are countries that use the averages of the bachelor's degree to access higher education, and it's the case of Canada and it's the case of Sweden. There are different models that can be analyzed for the sake of that equal opportunity of what you were talking about, because, at least since BNG, we have very clear that the ingenious work that does the student for two years of bachelor's degree, continuously evaluated by excellent teachers and teachers in our country are the best evidence to believe the enough qualification to allow the student to be enrolled in higher education if he wants to... because he can also study Bachelor's degree and go to professional training if there is any will to do so.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u160	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u161	Just one last question because several things came out here: About the opinion of the principals regarding the possible creation of this private university. It is not everything as Mrs. Anton said, her opinion - and it has made it very clear from the very first moment - is that no one can object practically because the law contemplates it. But what they've asked for... and I ask the Councillor to do a little more careful and in-depth analysis of what the People's Parliamentary Group has done for... to be prudent, and to keep very close in mind the distortions that the creation of this private university might entail for the public university system...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u162	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u163	...in this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u165	And the last thing — and with this really finished, president...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u166	Yeah, it's over now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u167	...we are again insisting on the call for postdoctorals for this year 2019. And the fact that there are people who are going to stay in limbo for five months...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u168	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u169	...because you speak of excellence, you speak of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u170	Thank you. Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u171	...to take full advantage of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u172	Time's up. Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández, words not perceived.]] Thank you. [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández, words not perceived.]] Your time is up. Thank you. [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández, words not perceived.]] Thank you! [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández, words not perceived.]] Thank you! It's here for today. [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández, words not perceived.]] Come on, all right! That's it! All right! [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández, words not perceived.]] Thank you. It's already here for today! [[Applause]] Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u173	Thank you, Mr. President. Allow me, Counsellor, that before responding to your intervention do so to what Mrs. Anton did, which, of course, I do not think it was at her best when she equated the existence of public aid to the study for disadvantaged students or in conditions that they need to have subsidised students. I think it is, frankly, a rather sad job of that reality that leads us, fortunately, to a certain part of the welfare state. [[Applause]] And you said what our model of university access was. And I ask you, what's yours? Yours is another model of bachelor's degree, another revalid that assumes that students who don't pass it don't even have the degree of bachelor's degree after you've passed all the subjects, and that's what we're adding to specific evidence that can put down universities? Do you really have the innocence to defend yet what former Minister Wert put in that law that no one, not the People's Party, supported? And if you don't consult with yours. And you say it's worth Feijóo that public job offer in education? Man!, something will have to do, something, even if it was because it was going through there, the Government of the State, which allowed the unlocking of the replenishment rates; something will have to do, something will have to do. And you said that our initiatives — I suppose that those of the whole opposition, but I agree with those of us — would become part of Parliament's anecdotal. Well, look... yes, yes, yes, you said you would become part of Parliament's anecdotal. And I'm telling you, it's better to be in the anecdotal than in the systematic analytical index of initiatives that have been blocked regarding the transparency and evaluation of public policies by the Education Council. And you said it wasn't true that we had what we had -- well, we had because the course ended last Friday -- teachers who were making guards instead of teaching. And it is true, it is true, and the proof of the nine that it is true that your predecessor, Mr. Fernández Gil, in Commission 4 recognized that this reality existed and that students were offered the possibility of doing these subjects in distance teaching. It seems a little incongruent or a little fearful — and I tell you from respect and affection — that you say it is not true that this reality existed. And I'm surprised you're talking about the position we've set, at least the Socialist Party of Galicia, in respect of that private university. I would appreciate it very much if you knew it, because it turns out you might have microphones installed in the facilities of our parliamentary group and we didn't know it. If that's how I'm going to congratulate you because you've greatly improved from a technological point of view, which has gone from formatting or eradicating hard drives to the punching blow to install microphones without anyone finding out. [[Murmurs.]] All right, you have ten. [[Applause]] Counselor, you say my expectations were different. No, my expectations were those that were deduced, in a first reading and in a second and successive, from the content of his application for attendance to account for the state of university and non-university education during this course. And you ask us to have objectivity in the opposition and not to make serious criticism. I don't have time to tell you about all the initiatives we've been presenting to improve the education system, with the only purpose of improving it. I insist, I don't have time and, therefore, I won't be able to do it. But I really think we have objectivity. We may have different points of view, we may not share the model, but that is why we are accused of making a simplistic analysis of the situation of teaching in this autonomous community, both university and non-university, or that we are accused of making a simplistic analysis of the controversy related to bachelor's assessments for access to university, I think that frankly is not fair to our political work. I insist, since the disagreement, since the meeting, I believe that a minimum recognition of the quality of all parliamentary groups that we are here would not be too much and would be part of a certain parliamentary elegance. In any case, it will allow me to question, as Mrs. Rodil has already done, that a certain initiative signed by I don't know how many thousands of people across a platform —change.org — is taken as a valid argument, because if that's a valid argument and a parameter where we're going to move, it's appropriate that we all move forward from now on. I'm done. You said you had new vocational training tailored to your needs. What is it, an amendment to what has been done so far? Because if the news is tailored to the needs, the previous one is obviously not. And finally, you know — because it belongs to university teaching — that the budgets of the University of Wales in absolute value, that is, the money there and the money there are, are still lower than today in 2009. So I think it's very good that we have plans, but it would be very good that those plans were accompanied by a budget enough to carry them out. And if, in addition, all the innovations had been broadly consensual with these political groups that we formed the opposition, it would be much better and we would save a lot of disgust and alterations in the becoming of both the university and non-university education system. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u174	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u175	Thank you, President. Five minutes and, of course, many subjects still pending on which we would like to be able to ask. But yes, Mrs. Antonio, it's less bad that we have the DOG. Now, if, as you said, everything you have to come to comment on is on the CEO or on the Council website, who knows what this kind of audience is for. And it's less bad also that the Counsellor asks us to conclude that we are a reference in the state. In what? Because the phrase sounds wonderful, but what?, having one of the least possible university funding?, are we referring to it? Or have one of the lowest percentages of GDP investment in education, only exceeded by Poland? Yes, we're champions too, but we imagine that's not what we mean. Well, let's go to the concrete, the university access tests. We see that yes, they want a unique test, that's what I could understand between the lines of their exposure. It will then be able to pass to the history of the Council for the one who annihilated his own evidence. I insist, can you make it clear what's going to happen with the German test? Did you remove it? Will you stop calculating? How can they say without any disrespect that they bet on the increase in self-government when in their mandate Feijóo not only was he not able to achieve a single competition anymore, none, but they are trying to regulate some of the fundamentals that support the German self-government? More matters. He talked about vocational training, specifically dual FP, where, by the way, we're also a reference. Today, of course, they go with everything; it's only bad that we're a reference to absolutely everything that's why we keep losing population! At least they don't tell us we're also a reference to birth, which would, of course, be to worry. We have failed in his speech some mention of the daily consequences of the labour market of dual vocational training. We have already said it here on more than one occasion: we cannot talk about dual vocational training without considering the problem that occurs because companies can use the student as a cheap labour force and without any control by the Administration. It cannot be denied that this presence ends up having a productive function, ends up covering up a working relationship and there, careful!, the administration should be vigilant. However, they have nothing to comment on, the Administration has never felt responsible for this work drama, nor a criticism, quite the contrary. That's why you're going to allow me to get back some questions that we couldn't ask you, but we did deal with the previous plenary when we talked about it. Does it make sense to promote a network for the dissemination of dual vocational training, with managers in the centres, which involves a change of silence just two months after the course is completed, leading to major changes in the centres? Does it make sense to invest resources, in your opinion, always disputed, always scarce, in a matter of this caliber? Would it not be better if the resources of dual vocational training, for example, were to cover the costs of displacement, maintenance and accommodation of pupils when they had to do this training? That would be, we understand, bet on equal opportunities. That, Counsellor, of course, we will insist, as much as it seems boring to you or the subject seems repetitive to you, that everyone has their priorities and, of course, in our political agenda, equal opportunities is above all, as our fundamental priority. And look, another matter where equality shines because of its absence is that of research. The effort — you said nothing — investor in R+D+i, understood as the relationship between spending on these activities and GDP, continues far below the state average, the European average and even the goal set by you in the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020. According to INE data, the situation of research in Galicia is very similar to 2008. So should college say something about this. Our research capacity is very behind other universities, from the universities of other communities that mentioned here as Catalonia or the Basque Country, which have their own very interesting programs. However, the German Government speaks and speaks of excellence but it is unable to offer the same conditions for research as elsewhere in the state. Little talent will be brought like this and, of course, little talent will prevent us from leaving. But, of course, this inequality is a minor thing for Feijóo's executive. What really takes away the sleep of this government is that it is us and not Madrid who examine Galician boys and girls, the clear priorities! With all this said, I didn't want to be tougher than that. Clearly Mr. Nuñez Feijóo doesn't have his head here right now. The situation in which your party finds itself opens a window of very interesting opportunity for him, which he could even allow him at once for all that he has long wanted: to lead the formation in the state as a whole. What you have to understand is that despite everything, you continue to be President of all the Greeks and the Greeks, so your duty is to rule from Galicia and to Galicia. I know you don't believe it, and that's why they talk about decentralization and supposed equality, but the Greek people have long been able to rule themselves without having to ask anyone for permission. If Mr. Núñez Feijóo is not able to do his part, then he'd better leave but quietly, without compromising the autonomy of the German Government and without further damaging our land and our language, that would be a service to Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u176	Thank you very much, Mrs. Chao Pérez. It is the turn, by the Popular Parliamentary Group, of Ms. Ángeles Antón Vilasánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u177	Thank you, President. Counsellor, as you see, we are still anchored in specific themes that are repeated over and over again by opposition groups, because the tree seems not to let them see the forest. You came here today to comment on how the school course was, which is about to end, to talk about the future, but the opposition is determined to take the part for everything and make the battle horse of the incidences instead of dealing with the set. The whole teaching set in Galicia is that we are reasonably well but we want to be better, and that's why the People's Party is working seriously, as you said, with pedagogical, demographic, geographic and resource management criteria. Greek education must be sustainable and supported in time to adapt to reality, a reality that is increasingly changing, which requires a collective effort to make our boys and girls' future better and enable them to improve the society that will touch them. That's why a state pact is essential, as you recognized. You were talking about the loyalty with which the Galician Union will act and we hope that this loyalty will be reciprocal and that education will not be a political game weapon of party demagogy, because we play the future of this country. The future that others do not seem to care about, they only think about their present interest and manage the speech according to their convenience in terms of political redemption. How can it be understood that the Government of Spain is absent from the education pact, from the educational debate? How is it understood that the Socialist Party, shaken by Podemos, who was in a great hurry to derogate Lomce, had presented a preliminary draft in November and since then no one knows anything? Almost better, this proposal returned us to the past, to the 20th century in many cases, as you pointed out on other occasions. Not only that, the Socialist Party was talking about the very bad budgets of the People's Party, which were destined for education by 4.2%, and demanded at least 5%. But when he arrived at the Government and presented his budgets even his proposal was less than 4%. What are you going to do now? Do you want to extend the budgets again? Because the budgets presented by the Socialist Party were not good for Galicia, in education, either, because they did not sufficiently collect the singularity of our territory, particularly geographical dispersion or the theme of children's schools. You've held your hand. Because Galicia has a differentiated model, contrasting with results, Mrs Chao, consulted and with the evaluation of public educational policies, which can serve as an example. And despite some of them, the model of multilingualism in our community is an example of how we defend our own language — because we are also proud of what we are, ladies of the BNG — and we stand up for it, we can face a matter pending in the teaching of this country, which is bilingualism. In an increasingly globalized world, language learning from a public education context is essential and Galicia is clearly on that path and the results are evident. We were also talking before equal opportunities and of course equal opportunities, Mrs Chao, are a technical matter. The momentum of equal opportunities is political, but the creation of instruments to allow equal opportunities is an absolutely technical matter. And that equality must not remain within the geographic framework of our community, but should be considered in the state as a whole. On the table there is the problem of ABAU that we discussed earlier, and students and students from the autonomous communities who develop a more demanding educational system, in search of excellence and educational quality cannot be penalized. This is not today, as I told you in my previous speech, the debate has been in place for decades. I know that Mr. Sánchez's Socialist Party doesn't like to look at its elders, and it denies that Socialist Party which thought in a sense of state and even knew a lot about illegal listening. Just as Minister Celaá acknowledged these days, as you recall, Minister Solana in 1992 - in which he showed that he did before El País's article - commented on the need to address and avoid inequalities in access to university in different autonomys. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate must be given to you, knowing the diagnosis of the situation and finding a solution, which must surely have a polyedral character and political responsibility. As it is political responsibility to address access to the teaching profession and professional career, to continuing research training. What will the Socialist Party do? Will you follow the idea of an MIR for teachers as Mr. Rubalcaba put it, or do you also refuse your ex-president? Mrs Álvarez, will the Socialist Party of Galicia support the demands of the Union regarding the improvement of the financing of the Greek education system? Counsellor, today you brought to this House the balance of what happened in this academic course and the lines you want to follow the Council for the future of our teaching. The opposition lost another opportunity to make approaches and constructive proposals. The People's Party speaks of excellence, quality, equality of opportunity, attention to diversity, while arbitrating measures to achieve such goals. Opposition groups also use these concepts, but they don't come up with a single proposal. They sneeze the extraordinary as ordinary, but that's...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u178	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u179	...is not the reality of Galicia's teaching. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u180	Thank you very much, Mrs. Antonio. For the doubling shift, Mrs. Pomar Tojo has the floor of the councillor for Education, University and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u181	Thank you, President. Mrs. Rodil, I'm proud to be a Welshman too. At no time did I speak of a simplistic analysis of the education system, Mr. Álvarez, but I said that reducing ABAU's debate to a purely ideological issue was simplistic. So sometimes I think you hear things I didn't say. I talked about making a deep analysis of equal difficulties in ABAU. I didn't say that teaching and discourse of inequality and equality in teaching is boring, at no time did I say so. I said that, within the framework of this speech, they would agree that ensuring equal opportunities in the Welsh ABAU is a necessity. The plan for the dynamisation of dual vocational training is subject to a European social fund managed by the State, so it has deadlines and calls. And speaking of equality, speaking of equity, simply saying that, according to the PISA 2015 report, Galicia is the autonomous community where ISEC has a lower impact on academic results. I'm talking about the impact that causes the social, economic and cultural index. He said it has a lower impact on academic results and, therefore, it's the autonomous community that has a more equitable educational system. In fact, the results of Galicia show more fairness than those of any other OECD country. Therefore, we believe that our education system meets the demands of this issue, although since the Council works and will always work with equity and equal opportunities as a priority cross-cutting line. With regard to the possibilities of a private university, in this plenary I will answer more specifically tomorrow to a question about the creation project of a private university in Galicia. I also want to say something about this appearance, to remember that the Education Council has already informed this Parliament about the procedure for setting up a private university in Galicia. In this sense, as the Greek rectors have stated, the Council's position on this matter is to comply with the law, but also, as you say and as the principals have said, the authorization of the new private university should be used to enrich the Galician university system. So you don't deal with this subject because it's going to be analyzed by the kid. The state-owned German regulatory framework allows for the coexistence of public and private universities, but Galicia is the only autonomous community in which, with more than one public university, there is no private university. Ladies and gentlemen, in the closing of a course before the preparation of another new one, as in the last ten years, the Council of Education, University and Vocational Training continues to be committed and we face new objectives and challenges. We are aware that Galicia, maintaining and enhancing what works, must update its university educational model for 21st century citizens. This ambition enables our community to have a defined university educational model and a differentiated university educational model that we are going to claim before the state, and with loyalty and humility we believe that it can serve as an example for other areas. One more course, through initiatives such as Edulingu, Edudigital and the Lia Plan of school libraries, the Council is committed to measures that will involve the strengthening of language skills, digital skills and reading skills. We will advance in the diagnosis and empowerment of the co-existence of the Welsh classes; we will deepen in co-education, equality and the fight against gender violence; we will strengthen attention to diversity and inclusive school care; we will prepare a strategy for inclusion in this sense. We will maintain the level of equity of the education system to improve information to the educational community in everything that reaches attention to diversity. We will devote our efforts to the Greek teacher, a key part of the teaching of Greek, with more and better permanent education. We shall face with responsibility the stabilization of the staff framework and the interintendentity rate in education in Galicia. We will also carry out a plan for the dynamization of vocational and professional guidance in the educational centers of Galicia. All the centres in Galicia - I said in the first intervention - already have mentors, but we work - I can't say the number at the moment, although you asked, but I commit myself to giving numbers soon - to face progressively the endowment of a second guide in secondary schools with more students. Besides, we'll bet because Galician educational centers are real learning spaces, with adequate infrastructure. We are running the 2016-2021 Educational Infrastructure Supply Plan. We'll schedule a new FP offer and we're already programmed -- actually approved last week -- adapted to the training needs. It was already adapted to the previous ones, the ones that changed were the needs, it wasn't a problem of adjustment. We changed the training offer of FP to adapt to Galicia's educational and labor needs. We will consolidate the work done in the FP and advance innovation through the definition and execution of the Greek Strategy of FP 2020-2030, to improve entrepreneurial professional skills. It will cover these measures in dual FP, internationalization, greater involvement of business tissue, promotion of R & D+i applied to Pemes, attention to the needs of new professional profiles and training for the challenges of the coming decades. We will create this European Innovation Centre of the FP, called to be the engine of innovation and entrepreneurship in vocational training in Galicia. We defend that Galicia's development of the future needs a Galician university system adapted to the 21st century and committed to the formation and management of talent. In fact, the bags belong to different calls and, in some ways, they are subject to the results; therefore, these calls are concatenated, not a single long call over time. We will bet on measures such as promoting interuniversity cooperation in the Galician university system, to advance excellence through this map of qualifications. Also by the capture and retention of the research talent, which reinforces this specialization of campuses and research centers. I have already finished with the commitment of the Council of Education, University and Vocational Training to continue to consolidate in the next course and in the following actions that are under way, and at the same time to promote those actions that can contribute to the formation of citizens who want to push towards the development of the new Galician 21st century Galician. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u182	Thank you very much, Counselor. We move on to the next point of non-law proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Jaime Castineira Broz and six other Members, on the promotion by the Galician Union, in collaboration with Fegamp, of the establishment of public housing parks for social rent in the municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants, with the simultaneous use of aid lines for the rehabilitation of municipal housing
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u183	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group of Galicia and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. [[The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of María Luisa Pierres López, through its spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to this Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislation proposal: Amendment to amend the resolution of the proposal must be replaced by the following: "The Italian Parliament calls on the Council of Galicia to increase, in collaboration with all the Councils of Galicia, the public housing park in social rent by making use of all the aid and investment lines intended for public promotion dwellings, both for the new creation and for the rehabilitation of municipal housing."]] [[(The Parliamentary Group on the Galego Nationalist Block (BNG), the initiative of Mr Bará Torres, in the light of the Rules of Procedure of the House, sets out the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal:Additional amendmentAdd a new paragraph to the resolution: "Asemade, Parliament urges the Board to recognize the failure of the empty housing programme and to stop using housing policy to oppose municipal governments. Finally, it calls on the Government of Greece to eliminate the discretionary distribution of public funds for the re-urbanisation of public spaces, replacing the agreements with competitive competitions and with objective criteria for distribution."]] To formulate the proposal not of law, Mr. Castineira Broz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u184	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. While the Galician Union has exclusive competence in the area of housing policy in the autonomous community, also the municipalities, through the Law of Local Plans, also have competences in the field of housing for public promotion, conservation and rehabilitation of buildings. This competition on the part of the municipalities is a series of them that have developed it at some point, others have never used it, logically, within the freedom that municipal corporations have. But the Cunta de Galicia has more than one public rental park, also with help for municipalities that can facilitate the construction of a public rental park for families with less resources. Among these aids is the cooperation fund for the municipalities, the rehabilitation program for the homes of teachers and other collectives, other types of housing owned by the municipalities, aid for infra-vival etc., among other programs you have. It should also be pointed out that in the electoral programme with which the Galician People's Party obtained the majority confidence of the Greeks in September 2016, within the housing policy, a specific commitment was made to seek the collaboration and involvement of the municipalities to take action to reurbanize public spaces, as well as to take measures to facilitate rehabilitation. From the People's Parliamentary Group we have this initiative, which indicates the following: The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to encourage, in collaboration with the Fegamp, the construction of public housing parks in social housing in the municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants, with the simultaneous use of the aid lines available to the Galician Union for the rehabilitation of municipal housing. And I point out that less than 20,000 people because this initiative has a double purpose. On the one hand, logically, to expand the increase of the public housing park, and on the other, to fix population precisely in the municipalities of lower population. I mean, it's necessary to have housing so that you can have those people who need them in those municipalities as well, and, therefore, the municipalities participate. On the 19th of this month, the call for aid to promoters, cooperatives and municipalities, amounting to EUR 10.5 million, was published in the Official Journal of Galicia to promote the construction of housing for rent for twenty-five years at reduced prices, and also for the construction of housing for older rents, in this case for forty years. Yesterday, on 24th of this month, the call was published in the Official Journal of Galicia for the year 2019 of the Cooperation Fund for activities for the rehabilitation and conservation of the built heritage, in municipalities of less than 50,000 inhabitants, amounting to EUR 6.4 million. Remember that this initial fund was 10 million euros. What is missing up to 10 million, 3.6 million euros, was what in the past two years, in the 2017 and 2019 calls, was used by the various municipalities that participated in this cooperation fund program. There is also the rehabilitation program for teachers' homes and other collectives for municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants. This fund had in 2017 EUR 850,000, initially in 2018 was € 950,000, increased by about 160, reaching a total of 1,107,000, and in this year's call, which is currently open and in the process of receiving applications, there are 1,761,000; that is, in less than two years the initial amount was doubled by the success of this program precisely. A programme in which 34 municipalities have participated right now, 80 homes have been rehabilitated and 3.7 million euros. These two programs, if they operate in an integrated way and together, allow the municipalities themselves to acquire and finance 100 percent of the purchase of homes to rehabilitate and then, through the housing program for teachers and other collectives, properties of the municipalities, they can, with 90 percent of the fund lost, rehabilitate these housing. That is, with general help up to 40,000 euros, and in cases of historical fields or on the Way and Santiago even up to 48,000. The conditions, logically, are the cooperation fund, which is a loan free of interest, and the housing rehabilitation program, where the housing goes to social rent for 20 years. Those are the commitments. Apart from this, the municipality integrates these rehabilitated housing into the program of Empty Living and manages with this theme the insurance of non-payment and multi-risk home which facilitates and finances the Union, and the tenants can benefit, if they meet the income requirements, from the Social Rental Bonus. I mean, the municipalities, in the end, practically put nothing on them, because what they finance, they get back through the small social rent that they're going to have of these housing. In addition, Junta also has the program and infra-vival plan for municipalities of less than 10,000 inhabitants, with a maximum investment of 15,000 euros and a bottom-up subsidy of up to 95%. This initiative - as I said - is now because we have just formed municipal corporations and we understand that it is an important time to take these programmes from the outset, and we understand that it is a matter necessary for, within the fixing of population and the depopulation we are suffering, especially within Galicia, to take measures, from housing policy, aimed at the stability of the population in those municipalities, and even that they could increase. In this sense, it must be pointed out that an initiative which came to this Parliament by the hands of the People's Group, as was that of modular housing - by the way, voted against by the opposition groups - must indicate that if it is being done as a pilot experience. Three modular dwellings are being built in Sober Town Hall and six in Cenlle Town Hall. The other day, some of the opposition's lords and ladies were able to understand why they were built in Sober three dwellings. Logically, small councils have rights, too, and sovereignty between them. We also need to indicate that they are sometimes active municipalities, that they ask for things and participate in different programs, and therefore they have those aids or such initiatives. I hope and I count on the support of all of you. Mr. Bará, from your amendment allow me not to speak, allow me to speak of... No, because, logically, as you will understand, it's going to be difficult, we'll talk later, see how the expony works. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But if I want to tell Mrs. Pierres that not as a replacement, as you put it, but it can be like adding, with a transaction, his amendment. We can work on it for a possible transaction. But we want it to be very clear that our initiative initially goes to municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants for these two reasons I said. The intention of the Group and the People's Group is to extend the public housing park, so we can reach a transaction, possibly, to incorporate as one more addition, or one more point, one more paragraph to its initiative, to its amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. Castineira. Mr Bará Torres has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u186	Thank you, President. Mr. Castineira said he wouldn't talk about the amendment to the BNG. I will therefore speak that for this we have come here, to speak of our book; of our amendments, in this case. This proposal has some paradoxes. First of all, if it was a proposal included in the election program of the People's Party of 2016, what brings it to Parliament three years later? Since the first day, since 2016, these measures have been expected to be implemented. So, it relates to the change of the corporation, which was three years later, it's just like a little bit caught up by... by that place. Then of course, you amend yourself, because you just got out today, which is 25th, a call from the cooperation fund that talks about municipalities of less than 50,000 inhabitants, and you reduce to twenty thousand. I suppose you'll accept or trade, at least, if you don't deal with BNG, with the Socialist Group, so that you either put yourself to less than 50,000 inhabitants, or, as it seems logical, to all the municipalities, but at least 50,000 inhabitants, because that's what this call just brought out. What we see is that there's a lot of interest here in talking about palliative care, but not about the underlying problem, which is the problem of housing, which is not a right, but it's a luxury every time within reach of fewer people, and, above all, that is not within reach of the working class and the young people, who really have no chance to access the housing. The reality is there. Not to mention the defiances, which continue to grow in this country. This has to do with a lot of housing but badly distributed, because there are about 300,000 empty houses in Galicia. A part of them are humble people who made a small investment, but an important part of them are speculators too. Speculators who are foreign investment funds, with headquarters, by the way, in tax havens, the famous Socimis, and also the bank. The bottom line therefore changes by changing the legal framework and by public intervention in the housing market, and placing on the market all that housing detained by these speculators. If we enter that matter, we will really look for solutions to also control the excessive increases in the price of housing that are being suffered in recent times, precisely by the intervention on the market of these large speculators. We have to talk about that, too. We have to talk about the scarce public investment in housing in general, so we have some public housing parks that are so resourceful, because budgets have only declined over the last decade. And not only that, but budget execution is also very poor and there is much to improve in this sense. Then you'll be interested in talking about the powers of the councils on this initiative, but we also need to talk about the powers of the Union, and we want to talk about the powers of the Union, which harms the Union. You've spent three years campaigning municipal elections on the famous "Vivendas Emptyeiras" program of the Galician Union, which was a real fiasco. It was a fiasco because it was a bad project, a bad program, a bad plan, and to the tests I send myself: sixteen total housings in all the municipalities that joined this program. The first one that was added, by the way, was the Council of Ourense, that of the lethal mayor, that of the lethal government, who recognized that he had not served this program, who only managed to offer four homes and all without elevators. It was useless, therefore, to recognize it. It must also be acknowledged that you have also taken this and you don't want to talk about rehabilitation in your 2018 election program, and they were talking about Rexurbe, 500 buildings, one thousand five hundred homes and three hundred commercial sites. Where are they? You were talking about strategic priority and recovery of Galician historical helmets. The goal is to intervene in more than ten thousand dwellings and more than forty nuclei and historical areas. We've been legislating for three years, where's the balance? Because, really, if they did this, we would have a public housing park at the disposal of people and would help to address the serious problem we have with housing. So it seems to us that the core of cooperation with the municipalities, which is broadened, which is better endowed, which extends to more municipalities, not only those of less than 20,000 inhabitants, but we ask it in our amendment to rectify and acknowledge errors, failures, and this partisan use of the program of Empty Living. They also make an objective and fair distribution of public funds...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u187	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u188	...because there is no right for the Urbe program to be used in the perverse way that you do, signing agreements with the Town Councils of the People's Party. That's why we don't compromise, and that's what we don't support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u189	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Pierres López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u190	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone, even though it's sad for those who talk to them and for the whole socialist family. Mr. Castineira, September 2018, nine months, Mr. Castineira, which is a delivery, which is a delivery. I've already told you that this is the time you've spent since you registered this initiative. And I've already told you here that since then he stopped, but prematurely, because the creature, Mr. Castineira, in this case he was in advance. Why do I say that? Because the bulk of the aid you mention and which are linked at the bottom of this initiative was not only published this year in February at the CEO, but also has already completed the deadline for submission in the past month of May. So I don't know what you intend, with this initiative, to encourage from the Galician Union to the municipalities. It'll be next year, I understand. [[Applause]] I also agree with the spirit of BNG's amendment that I claim to use this House to advertise and advertise existing measures does not seem to be the best end of this place that we occupy, and today you, in addition, have basically read us up to the bases of aid. I understand that here we should all add, both the group that governs and the opposition, and that the centre of our efforts should be to add efforts, precisely, to design the best Galicia, to which best responds to the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks. That's why I ask you, and I ask your group, who thinks it's the initiative today, who thinks it's the added value of this initiative, besides advertising measures that have been launched since 2016. I feel like saying this and being so deeply negative today, the truth is, but you are the one who disappoints me today, Mr. Castineira. It disappoints me because you know perfectly - as you often say - that this initiative is a strategy of the People's Party of Galicia to hide, to hide, once again, the real problems of living in Galicia, and hide them because it once again directs the dart to the publicity of small actions and gives the back to the real solutions. [[Applause]] And we don't say it because we consider rehabilitation not a way to increase the public housing park, of course it is! Those and the socialists of Galicia have made it clear that future sustainability goes through the recovery and empowerment of the already existing built park, and especially in those smaller municipalities of Galicia. But they will understand that focusing today on the debate in this policy of brushing and patching seems to us more like a border than an approach to the real root of the problems. Since our group, the truth is, we have not stopped marveling at the fact that you intend to insist on your policy of appearance, what they do. In addition to the data, the wonderful data of rehabilitation aid to the municipalities for the rehabilitation of master's homes, that program in which you expressed that more than 750,000 euros were available this year. That's right. This translated into number of performances implies that there will be help for about 20 homes throughout Galicia. And if we pay attention to the aid for the rehabilitation of infra-inhabitants, with a share of 200,000, we can say that they will reach about 13 homes. These aids will be in just over thirty rehabilitated housing units, and we can conclude, because you know well that the results of the same aid in 2017 were translated into just over 61% of budget execution in the case of master housing, reaching only sixteen executions in six municipalities; 22% in the case of infra-vival aid; and reaching only twelve performances in nine municipalities throughout Galicia. Between the two programs, only 40% of the budgeted was executed, i.e. more than 700,000 euros without running 1.05 million in that call. Therefore, before the background and budget provision of this year, the question is required, is this really the policy of appearance to which it aspires and to which it seems to continue to aspire this Government? From the Socialist Group, we have made it clear that housing policy must be tackled more seriously and more responsibly, and that goes by having and pushing all the help and for all the municipalities, regardless of their ladder. And to push in addition, especially, the provision of new rental dwellings in the Town Councils, of course!, where there is much more demand. It is not tolerable that in municipalities with almost zero demand in the register of applicants are currently in the process of running new housing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u191	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u192	...and in others with demands of fifty, of a hundred, even more than two hundred dwellings, there's not even one of their demands being met. Worry, therefore -- I've finished -- more so not done, because of the failure of these and other programs, as Mr Bará pointed out from the empty dwellings...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u193	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u194	...and stop making propaganda initiatives, really, because that's why you might think they're moving forward, but the Greeks...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u195	Thank you very much. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u196	...don't move. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u197	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea has the floor to Mrs. Torregrosa Sañudo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u198	Good afternoon. Thank you very much. Mr. Castineira, I am sorry to say that I fully agree with the diagnosis that my colleagues have made before. We can't think of anything else that, after this kind of initiatives proposed by the party in the Government, there is at least one way to get rid of their responsibilities of management, not assuming their competences with regard to the citizenship of our country. As if the problem of social housing was a subject where they have a great interest in solving, so they pass the balloon to the municipalities, to a greater extent than effective publicity. What about the social housing policies that the Board has implemented in these years that have not been reported in this House and in the committees? If we do an X-ray on the social housing situation in Galicia, we have to say it's at least minimal. In 2017 there were only 12 protected homes completed: 3 of the state plan and 9 of the autonomous plan; the lowest figure among all communities in the Spanish state. The light years of social housing in Madrid and Barcelona, as well as territories with less population than us, such as Euskadi, with 385; Aragon with 234; Asturias 48; Extreme 216; and Castile-A Mancha, 165. In 2017, the keys of 4,938 social floors were delivered throughout the Spanish state, only 12 in Galicia, which means only 0.2% of the total. I think it's a subject to reflect on where your policies go. It has to be said that in Galicia there are 3,500 social housing units in total. If we speak in percentages, in 2017 only 0.2% of the housing started in Galicia were protected housing, compared to almost 11% of the Spanish state. In countries around us, we can talk in France about 17% and 30% in the Netherlands. It must be said that the media have them, it seems that there is a 2018-2021 housing plan, with an allocation in our Community of more than 106 million euros for housing, from which our Community provides only 30%. But as the voicer lady of the PSdG has already said, in recent calls to the DOG for help to the 2018-2021 Housing Plan we have ridiculous amounts of 200,000 euros. The last one ended on May 30 last, of the RehaVita Plan's Insurvival Program, the Greek Rehabilitation Plan, and we speak of 200,000 euros for support to Galician municipalities of less than 10,000 inhabitants. How much are we talking about? That's actually what they're proposing: 2.3 million euros to divide into two years. If we talk about EUR 1,761,000 between 2019 and 2020, we can easily calculate that is not an issue for the problem we have in Galicia. What's the matter with Galicia? The basic problem is the lack of housing, on the one hand, because you don't want to intervene, of course, on an issue such as the one about empty housing, which is the first issue you'd have to face. Of 1,605,998 homes in our community, nearly 300,000 remain empty, according to the Galician Federation of Real Estate Companies. The seven cities of Wales account for 89,534 empty dwellings, which means 30% of the total. And despite this, the price of the housing goes on and on. The average price of the square meter in the cities of Coruña and Santiago is more than 1,600 euros; in Vigo it is about 1,500; and in Oleiros it is more than 1,300. We think that's the reality of your housing policies from the government. To propose such an ambiguous and indefinite measure, without budgets and deadlines, what will they offer?, again 200,000 euros for municipalities of up to 20,000 inhabitants? Yeah, it's about that. Very little to be a party proposal that makes housing policies and leaves aside other topics that are equally related to the initiative. Why throw the balloons out of their failed city halls? It seems that the principle of your argument is quite clear on that. The Galician Union has exclusive competence in housing policy in the autonomous community, and we've seen what it's been doing so far. We only ask them to follow the example of other countries that have already taken action in the face of this extreme situation of the difficulties that people have in order to have access to a decent housing. The average rent price has risen in Galicia, according to the news of four days ago, 30% in a year, seems excessive. The evictions by rent, as reported by La Voz de Galicia on March 14, grow by 12% in Galicia at the heat of the price rise, that's not permissible. We can take other measures and do like other neighbouring countries like Portugal, which have already settled the rent, Holland, France...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u199	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u200	...towns like Berlin, New York, Barcelona. The rest I think it's more propaganda policy. They have the means, they have the government, they do a good deal of it at once. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u201	Thank you, Mrs. Torregrosa. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Castineira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u202	Mr. President. Mrs. Torregrosa, I know Vigo is in front of Paris, Berlin, New York, and all of them, so maybe they make a separate policy because Vigo is a separate world. But, look, you come here to compare the cities of Greece, except Vigo — as I say — with Barcelona, Madrid or Euskadi. Of course, you're going to rent Madrid, Barcelona or Euskadi, or even Navarra, and you'll see how the housing world is. Barcelona, for example, does not surprise me!, and there's still much to do in Barcelona or Madrid, you can ask, I suppose you already know. So, compare the prices there with the prices here, and compare the number of dwellings that have to be done there with those in Galicia... because, look, to begin with, in Galicia — and you know it — a private promoter does not promote public protection housing, why? because they are above the prices of public protection housing: 1,212 euros, compared to 1,160 or 1,190 were the prices per square metre built from the Ministry of Development of the first quarter. You get statistics, take that out, and tell someone to buy a housing by paying an average of 1,212 euros, when he's free, with other advantages, without the requirements for sales purposes, for the purpose of a rental, for the purposes of a series of things, when he can buy those housings at an average of 1,192. Logically, it has lower prices. That's half, if you go to a series of nuclei or municipalities, it's way below that, in this case in Galicia. The renters are sure they went up, and you yourself in your initiatives means that in Pontevedra, for example, they went up more than 20%. I would ask Mr. Bará what they do to Pontevedra, who have been ruling for 20 years and are following an overall plan of the 1980s. That allows you to do... There are no speculators in Pontevedra, right, Mr Bará? What happens is that having a general plan of the year 1990 not adapted to the laws of Galician soil, none of them allow... — listen, Mr Bará, which at best learns something! —...allows, Mr Bará... — yes, yes—...to make urbanism on the map. [[Mr. Bará Torres utters words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Urbanism at the letter, Mr Bará. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u203	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u204	Look, you and the Bipartite... the three left-wings and peaks we have here today, who are heirs of the Bipartite, you know what they left in this country about the public housing park? minus three thousand homes, minus three thousand! [[Applause]] Yes, because they left a debt in the gestures of 280 million euros and that means that the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo had to invest 280 million euros to clean up and recover them, and that's 280,000 square meters of housing. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, 280,000 meters, as they're listening to me. That's more than 3,000 homes, Mr. Bará, Mrs. Pierres and other Bipartite heirs. Yes, more than 3,000 homes you left in deficit, that this Government of the Union and the People's Party could not carry out when Feijó arrived because you had to clean up the debts you left. [[Murmurs.]] Plus, logically the first thing that was done was a political change, yes, because you were adjuring on sale. They sold, recovered the money — as little as they did — and still used the same money. What is it done in the PP governments? Increases the public housing park, right now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u205	About the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u206	...—now finished, Mr President—about 3,600 homes in rent, and that is going to increase steadily. They're not sold, they're property. Whoever sells, by the way, it's the Vigo Town Hall...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u207	Thank you. About the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u208	...that the forty that I had sold them in Rosalía de Castro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u209	On the amendments!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u210	Yes, I said, BNG's amendment logically not. It seems to me to be a lack of respect for the policies being made by the Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u211	That's right. What about the PSOE?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u212	And the one about the PSOE -- I've commented on it before -- I'm willing as an addendum. We can talk later or tomorrow and try to get into a transaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u213	Thank you, Mr. Castineira. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Paula Prado del Río and eight other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament on the proposal for an organic law against illegal occupation and on the neighbouring coexistence and protection of the safety of persons and things in the communities of owners, presented at the Congress of Members
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u214	There's an amendment from the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u215	To formulate the proposal you have the floor to Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u216	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. We bring to plenary today an issue which, unfortunately, has taken quite some time in our country, and we consider it appropriate to be addressed as soon as possible to end the illegal occupations of real estate that so many conflict and insecurity situations have generated in our country. Or People's Party introduced or last June 11, not Congress two Members, a "Proposal for Organic Law against Illegal Occupation and for Neighborhood and Protection of the Safety of Persons and Things in Ownership Communities". It's not the first time this bill has been introduced. Once again, it is presented after the end of the previous session and, after the end of the legislation, we resume this topic. It's resubmitted; as I say, last June 11th. Once the current legislation has been initiated in the Congress of Deputies, we present this bill. It is a bill that is intended to combat illegal occupation of housing, which guarantees the right to property, the security of persons and goods and social cohabitation. It states, among other measures, that the illegal occupant will not enjoy the protection of residence or residence. These are rights that have to attend to people who act legally, but never to those who act illegally. The police may evict the house illegally occupied within 12 hours, or even immediately if we're talking about a gross crime. It reinforces the crime of usurpation, passing a slight offence, leading to a fine, to a serious offence, punishable by deprivation of liberty from 1 to 3 years. And illegal occupation cannot, in any case, give rise to the inclusion of the occupants in the municipal pattern, something that is now feasible. Faced with the passivity and even the permissivity of the so-called mayors of change—which in their majority the voters have already changed, but in this case of the Government to the opposition—this bill, if at that time it was law and it was in force, would avoid situations like the one that occurred in the Wonderful Patio in Madrid, or that were made as regrettable as the first year in Badalona, when three neighbors of an immovable, were killed as a result of an electric overload by an illegal bite of the occupations that lived illegally in a building in the San Roque district. Not to mention a closer case we have here, in Santiago de Compostela, when there was a campal battle, gentlemen, which took place in June 2017 in Santiago de Compostela, when after a judicial resolution — the execution of a judicial resolution — resulted in the eviction of an illegal occupation into a property of number 11 Algalia Street in Santiago. Six policemen were injured, assaulted by a group of chiefs who acted with extreme violence in a demonstration to avoid the eviction of the Escarnius and Maldizer collective; an eviction that was also refused in their day by the Open Compostela, the tides of Podemos and then mayor of Santiago, Mr. Martiño Noriega, who even brought out a statement standing on the side of the illegals, taking the side of the occupied, taking the side of the violent, and not on the side of the law, on the side of the judges and on the side of absolute respect for the right of property, on the legitimate right of their owners to defend their private property. He even brought out a statement stating that he was supporting the occupation, making an explicit recognition of the cultural manifestations of popular initiative as is the case with the busy social centres, who choose to operate outside the institutions, activities that for the party of that municipal government did not generate any security or coexistence problems, however, gentlemen, that I tell them that in that cultural space the only thing that was done, apart from other things, was to consume alcohol and drugs, not to mention other illegal activities that were carried out there, but that, in no case, were sanctioned by the municipal government. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Subsequently, if a sanctioning file was opened to the owner of the property. Curiously, he opened an urban sanctioning file because he tapped the building, so he took the carpet out of the building because he was breaking down... yes, yes... I'm setting a clear example... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u217	Quiet. They don't dialogue. Quiet, Mr. Lago, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u218	...of what must not be done in the face of occupation. Maybe you don't know him, but I think it's important to know the story of what happens in illegal occupations. Yes, Mr. Lago, there are those who stand by the illegal occupations, the criminals, not the legitimate owner's side. [[Murmurs.]] That's the serious problem we're living in this country, so if illegal occupations have increased, that's why we have data from the General Council of the Judiciary that indicates that in the first quarter of this year, 2019, in Galicia we already have data exactly the same as in the whole year 2018. It seems to us of extreme gravity, lords of the tides of Podemos, or of Podemos, or of the tides or of what they want to call themselves. We believe that these municipalities, far from promoting an effective housing policy, have committed themselves to allowing a usurpation of property which is not justifiable in any case, because it is illegal against a constitutionally protected right that is property. And so legitimate is defending fundamental right to domicile and decent housing, how to defend legitimate and constitutional right to private property. When there is illegal occupation, there is an act contrary to law, and it cannot be that these policies supposedly of change are based on considering illegal occupation as an acceptable or tolerable situation, as no other illegality is. Combating the alarming and growing problem of the occupation of housing, fighting the mobs and the crime associated with it and thus ensuring private property, coexistence and security are the reasons for this regulatory initiative that we have presented at the Congress of Deputies and for which, from here on, we are going to ask for their support for this House. We speak, ladies and gentlemen, of protecting the right to housing, of protecting the right to private property and the social function derived from it as well. We're talking about security, we're talking about protecting peaceful and respectful neighbourly coexistence with the safety of people and things. We're talking about not allowing forbidden, harmful or unhealthy actions, paying attention to the cohabitation of the neighbours and neighbors of the occupied real estate. We are talking about harnessing the spaces of impunity to organized crime, which is also taking advantage of especially vulnerable people, at risk of social exclusion or even social exclusion. Finally, we are talking about strengthening existing measures in the legal system, both at the civil and criminal levels and at the administrative level. And although in the last decade the legal deadlines for the eviction of housing have been substantially shortened, the problem of occupation generates alarm in Spanish society and the number of occupied housing keeps increasing. In addition, the phenomenon has generated the installation of mafias of occupation and the use of many of these buildings for delicious activities, and it concerns those who care, because indeed, there are occupied places where, in fact, there are delicious activities. These days, as I told you, we know this occupation data, which to us are alarming because Galicia puts itself in the seventh position of autonomous communities with more cases of occupation. The bill defines for the first time what illegal occupation is, prevents the occupations from attempting to shelter themselves in legal cracks or rights that assist the citizen who acts legally to commit this attack on private property. To that end, it allows public authorities and law enforcement officers to act immediately, with an express eviction. The new law will also strengthen the penalties associated with the crimes of usurpation; it expedites the criminal process; it extends the reform of civil processes to both physical and legal persons, so that they can exercise their right with the same agility; and it also gives the communities of owners, Your Honor. When illegal occupiers engage in prohibited, disturbing or unhealthy activities and neighboring communities are absolutely desperate because they can't do anything, this law will also enable communities of owners to act in cases that the law allows. What doesn't regulate this bill is mortgage and lease defiance, nor does it aim to regulate the known precarious. To make it clear, ladies and gentlemen, that this regulation has nothing to do with the protection of persons in situations of social emergency or special vulnerability to housing, whose protection is found in numerous rules already adopted by the People's Party. There are twelve measures that I will remind you: donation in payment of protected housing, royalty affected by mortgage executions, judicial clearance of evictions, programme Reconduce, Plan RehaVita to facilitate access to the housing of the most needy, Sareb's housing to the service of social needs, agreement with the People's Valedor for the care of housing problems, banks committed to the Union in not performing evictions, the Social Rental Bonus, the census of empty housing, the free legal advice to those affected by defiance processes or the Empty Housing Pogram for social rent. Therefore, this law does not aim to regulate defiance, since right now there are measures to ensure that people who are at risk of social exclusion do not have to be accused of either illegal occupation or of being subjected to mafia and criminal organizations that take advantage of the weakness and social vulnerability in which there are many people to whom the Administration, in this case the Council of Galicia and the Government of Galicia of the People's Party, defends with many measures and many social resources. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u219	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u220	Thank you, President. This afternoon we came to optical illusions in this Parliament: selectivity for all the national territory, who ask me for it on the street, and occupy you, that I don't know how many people are occupied in I don't know how many lives in all of Galicia. It must be yes, or it must be those andromems that you get out of your sleeve, Mrs. Paula Prado, and the People's Party. The truth is this is not a new initiative, because in May 2017 there was an initiative that you defended here, also from your parliamentary group, asking with another text exactly what you are asking for here today. And not for the undeniably social advantages, as they now say that this initiative is going to be carried out by you, of course, because you are going to approve because you have 41 Members; at that time it was on the grounds of urgency, and you asked the People's Party Government, that is, the government that was chaired by Mariano Rajoy, to initiate proceedings to improve the regulatory framework for the crime of usurpation of immovables. We approved this initiative in this plenary, we made our amendment, you accepted our amendment, but, what did Mr. Rajoy do with that non-law proposal? Well, nothing. It used to be quite common. He was a man who sat down and watched things pass over. He didn't do anything. He might even have made a bill, a law, because he ruled. He didn't either, and he was approved, huh! And you come here today with this remake, which is also an outdated remake because you talked about the mayors of the tides, the outposts of the tides, the tides of Podemos, which you say, but there are no more mayors. You spoke of Martiño Noriega, with that obsession that Mrs. Paula Prado has with Martiño Noriega, but she is no longer the mayor of Santiago and therefore notes that she is out of step. Besides, a note that's bad and that's very dangerous, because it confuses the judicial route with the police road, because it gives entry to a police state, that's what makes this proposal for organic law. And then I'll give you a few examples. We know that you have 66 Members in Congress of Deputies, 66!, who in Mr Tellado's calculations would catch 10 Renault Scenic more or less. We know that they have 66, but that doesn't mean that we have to ask for a proposal by this Parliament to be passed by an organic law in which only Congress and Senate are competent, no one else has jurisdiction. [[Murmurs.]] In the Galician Parliament we have no competence to amend the Criminal Code or to amend the Organic Law of the Court of Justice. So, it's a strange, bad remark and you use your absolute majority here because you only have 66 Members in Congress and you don't have the absolute majority in the Senate, which is what you need for organic laws. It introduces this police state because it allows the pre-trial eviction that no judge or judge wakes up. It allows communities of owners to go to the police so that when communities say that this activity must be stopped because we say it's forbidden, the police will do it without further delay. It allows you to wake up from the pattern without any judicial resolution that says whether or not there is illegal occupation. It allows for increased penalties, increasing the sentence to prison without the need for violence or intimidation, on people or on things. And he proposed that the violation of address should remain outside the Law of the jury, contrary to that defense of the Law of the jury which Mr. Rueda made the other day at this very plenary. We propose again an amendment which is very similar to what we proposed in May 2017 and which, by the way, has been accepted, and we hope it will be as well. That, in fact, proceedings are being initiated to improve, to study the improvement of this legislative framework that regulates this crime, but it should be the Courts who do it, not us. There's a lot of things going on in Galicia that you could bring here, and it just brings something about what we don't have competition. And we also ask that the measures necessary to redeploy these families should be taken in cases where the occupants are at risk of social exclusion. But you have competition, you have competition in that empty housing program — seven that have been awarded in the last two years, seven — and for the construction of public housing, five last year. Of course, at this rate, there are so many illegal jobs in Galicia, which it is impossible for empty housing and public housing to reach as many jobs as we have in the country. The Socialist Group believes that as long as the right to housing is not protected, both from the owners and vulnerable families, there will be no law that is sufficient, so we hope that our amendment will be accepted, and that for the next time you come here, Mrs. Paula Prado, it will bring an initiative that is more consistent, really, with the problems out there, which are not those of the occupations or the illegal occupations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u221	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Title I of the Spanish Constitution, as far as fundamental rights and duties are concerned, makes clear, in its article 47, the common right to a decent and adequate housing. This article also points out that the public authorities will promote the necessary conditions and lay down the relevant rules for the effective implementation of this right -- more -- by regulating the use of the floor according to the general interest to prevent speculation. The community will participate in the surpluses that generate the urban action of public entities. Didn't you notice these last two paragraphs? The People's Party is not particularly concerned about the fulfilment of this paragraph of which is supposed to be the state's main law. Since the BNG we've stated that it's better to the contrary. We still suffered from Law 6/1998, about the liberalisation of the ground, driven by Aznar and which caused the greatest rise of real estate speculation we knew, creating a great bubble that exploded with the crisis. It is at least curious, ladies and gentlemen, that in the PNL argument that we are debating, registered in February, they speak of the passivity and permissivity of certain mayors and do not talk to us about the permissibility and convolence of their governments with the occupations made by banks and voitre funds. Those do not understand rights beyond the sacred private property of speculation and the carnage pillage that violates fundamental rights of the population. You know, the lords of the PP, that I'm talking about the patio in Chamber and the 50 families threatened by expulsion from the dwellings they live in. They know of Altamira's legal impunity, a platform that managed Santander's real estate assets and was sold to the U.S. Investment Fund Apollo in 2013. These do understand human rights!, these do understand constitutional rights!, yes, oh, yes. Then there are the other miserable, the other criminals, those mobs that extort misery, those non-bank organizations that occupy housing blocks, who charge rents and extort those who immigration or society is so wonderful marginal and condemn to live in exclusion and misery. Those for whom there are no police operations that remove them from the map. Defeats of families or persons beaten by the crisis and also by the greed of banking entities who have committed crimes of abuse, theft and unlawful recovery, even though public and consented by the PP, taking possession of illegally belonging, in conjunction with corrupt political power and decay. Because you, who occupy the Government of the State, have put a great deal of effort into defeating and making it easier for banks that have lent mortgages on balance terms to recover the money that they risked suicide. All of this, after you solve your financial squeezes with everybody's money. These are the rights you defend. It's shocking that, with a lot of unoccupied housing, there are homeless people. That's the model that you defend: that there are hungry people surrounded by abundance. Because not being occupation a right, it is obvious that usurpation, yes, is a way to satisfy that constitutional right of great importance that we mentioned earlier: that of housing. So the problem with usurpation is that they have two rights. On the one hand, the right to housing and privacy at home; on the other hand, the right to property. Thus, it must be a judge who weighs and decides the most appropriate, taking into account the peculiarities of each particular case, as it may be if the owner needs to immediately dispose of the occupied property or if the eviction can be delayed until the persons who are found have a housing solution. On the contrary, this is what you are looking for in this LNP, support for an express unemployment law where you can pass over the smallest citizen guarantees. Citizens' assurances that you have precarried and undermined your policies to support those who never appoint but who are there, let's say that by advising the measures that must be taken to make the economy - theirs - work. From the BNG we appeal to the full housing and renting powers of the Galician Union, and we believe that this Parliament does not have to follow up Mr. Casado's policies and to develop measures that put an end to precariousness here, in this parliament, from this chamber, and with criteria here. They know the empty houses of the countryside, they know the emptiness of the countryside. You continue to seek solutions to social and political problems increasing prison sentences, inaugurating more prisons and policing more police: that's the way.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u223	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u224	I talked to Mrs. Paula Prado about tolerance with illegal activities and she came to me head to Genoa Street, I don't know why. That's tolerance with illegal activities! [[Applause]] If we're talking about illegal occupation, Mrs. Prado, there's a law that says it's not legal to occupy houses like this. Then. They're illegal occupations, therefore, there's already a law. What you come here to propose, perhaps, is to lower the guarantees that the law gives today. Maybe that's it. There are already laws that prevent these occupations from lawfully done. So what you come here is, once again, to be an expert in reports, in urban legends, to change the real priorities this country has, to give back to the great problem in this country, which is residential exclusion, which makes five people go to the street every day because they can't afford a rent or mortgage. For the last ten years, this repeats year after year. This year, it's growing, last year, the challenges have grown, and you come here and say that those people in Galicia already have solutions, that they don't have to resort to any kind of occupation because there are already solutions. You're telling me that everything works well here, that there's no residential exclusion, and the big problem is occupations, of course, importing interestingly a problem that doesn't exist here. Because the mobs, the mobs of occupation. They don't work here in Barcelona and Madrid. And the so-called mafias, who occupy Barcelona and Madrid, work for the big mafias that are the vulture funds, the banks and politicians who work for these mafias and have legislated in the People's Party governments to exclude billions and millions of people from their homes with very specific laws. You were talking about the unfortunate death of two or three electrocuted persons in an occupied housing. Three, all right. A very unfortunate event. But look, they've been killing a lot more in recent years than they've seen. There were suicides of people who were killed when the judicial commission arrived to challenge them. Many of the rejections that ended this result were the result of the application of abusive clauses by the banks of this country. It had to come to European justice to put things in place, but there had already been hundreds of thousands of people who had been defeated. It kills much more social exclusion and residential exclusion, Mrs. Paula Prado. Meanwhile, banks have been rescued; a bad bank has been created by paying banks the houses they didn't want. They weren't released to make a public housing park while people were still on the street. The Law of Urban Rentals has been reformed to reduce the stability of the tenants, with the results we are now seeing. Tax exemptions were made for the sociomis, to buy housing, to put it into rent and now they're even buying official protection housing, to challenge people and press, yes, not doing the works they have to do to push and harass people so they can go out of those homes, so they can sell them at a good price now that the price of the housing is recovered again. You even made in Madrid the great milestone of selling public housing to vulture funds, Mrs. Botella. And the problem is still there, even though you, with initiatives like these, want to invisibility it. You want to apply harsh penalties for these crimes, but they do very soft laws for those who actually delinquent and steal on a large scale in this country. Those who have made the legislation that allowed bank abuse, those who have made the legislation of the housing that excludes hundreds of thousands of people, those have no lasting penalties. Here, Mrs. Prado, occupation is not a problem as it may be in Madrid and Barcelona, which has a specific case. Where there is an occupation of households that have a habitual home or that are modest, humble families, of course there is a need to defend them, and there are tools to defend them. But don't come here with an account saying that this is the absolute priority in this country, when you know it's not, that you want to create alarm to benefit those who benefit from the housing business, the speculative business of living in this country. You too are very hard, and very private property defenders, Mrs. Prado, but you forget that the Constitution also talks about the social function of housing, in a country where there are 300 thousand empty homes while people are on the streets. They're not that hard there, right? when you apply that social function of the housing that's not being applied, you're just leaving an empty house for some to have a price that makes them have important incomes when you speculate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u225	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u226	Therefore, we cannot support this initiative at all. We don't think it's a priority. We believe that the rights to defend are the rights for everyone to have a decent home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u227	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u228	Thank you very much, Mr. President. "The anti-disappearance platforms warn of the arrival of groups in Galicia that take advantage of groups in precarious conditions. The Voice of Galicia, June 12th and 2019." What's the matter, Mr. Sánchez, you don't trust the anti-draft platforms anymore? The law says it gives guarantees, to whom, Mr. Sánchez? Of course it gives guarantees, to those who live legally, to those who reside legally, not to those who occupy illegally. The law has to set the means for the legitimate owner to recover his property, Mr. Sánchez. [[Applause]] You tell me they've raised the challenge in Galicia. Of course, for the strike of workers of justice. You don't know what that indicator meant? Well, you should inform yourself. I understand that these days you're on other things, you don't even read the press and you don't even analyze the data as you have to analyze them. You say here there were hundreds of thousands of dead. Look, what happened in Santiago de Compostela was three people who lived in the street, who were all day at the Tower Square, and two of the three died. Why? By inaction of the municipal government. So, do you know who had to intervene? He had to intervene because you guys did what they did was give 70,000 euros to an association of friends to put up a protected floor in Fontinas that had zero homeless people on that protected floor. So don't come here and give us... No, I'm not crazy, Mr. Sánchez, no. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] These are real data. I understand that it is very difficult to defend the indefensible, but, of course, you come to say here that you do not support this initiative because it is not a problem! You're going to meet the defiance platforms. I recommend that Mrs Vilan also read the press, because it seems you don't read the press or just read what they're interested in. I understand you're in your internal feud all day and you don't have time to read the press. What surprises me is that Mrs. Vilán says I'm talking about andromemes. Mrs. Vilan, look at you, the Galician Voice of June 11th, another one. We've been in Galicia for a week or two with news every day. Read you... read you... [[Interruptions.]] No, I know you're on the other side and you're reading other things, but, Mrs. Vilan, andromems and reality... reality is in the press too. And besides the press, you should read the report of the General Council of the Judiciary. It's highly recommended that you read those figures to stop coming here saying that we're uninformed and that I came here to make a note of mayors who were... Do you know what's going on? That that mayor's remake was supported by the PSOE. I don't trust the Spanish Socialist Workers Party because it is now ruling in the same cities with the support of these gentlemen. I want to know whether the four left-wings in this Chamber will support this initiative or not. Some have already said no. You didn't say or say yes or no, you tabled an amendment because you said that, of course, I came here to talk about things that are not in this Parliament's jurisdiction. Ah! but when I brought an initiative similar, not the same, to this parliament and governed the People's Party in Madrid, you didn't tell me it wasn't a competition from the state. Ah! Now it's because Sánchez rules. Well, look, so much competition was when Rajoy ruled as now that he ruled Sanchez. And look, there's no problem of occupation, let's explain it to the neighborhoods of the Gandaras, in Lugo, for example, not to speak in other places. Yes, of course, I know it doesn't matter to you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u229	Silence! Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u230	Look, Mr. Rivas, the truth is, I'm glad that at least the initiative had been used for the Nationalist Block Galego to come here to defend the Constitution. Honestly, that's why it was worth it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u231	About the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u232	About the amendment. About the fine I read in my first...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u233	I want to know about the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u234	I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u235	I'm telling you, I don't hear anything. It's not with you, it's quiet, it's not with you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u236	Ah!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u237	I'm saying silence so I can find out what the amendment is going on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u238	I say, in my first intervention, I spoke of twelve measures...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u239	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u240	...who has adopted the Galician Board in defence of the right to housing which guarantees public assistance to all those affected by evictions, whether for mortgage or rent, who request and comply with the requirements. The Empty Housing program...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u241	Do you accept the amendment or not?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u242	Yes, but let me argue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u243	No, don't argue. Do you accept? Look at the weather.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u244	There are programs like Vivendas Emptyeras, which the Socialist Party in Vigo and Lugo did not join, and now they're asking us to launch programs. Well, no. I'm sorry, Mrs Vilan, but we can't accept your amendment. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-06-25-DSPG121.u245	Thank you, thank you very much, that's all. You don't accept. We suspended the plenary until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Good afternoon. [[The session is suspended at seven and forty-seven minutes in the afternoon.]] 152
