ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u1	Good morning. Let's start the session. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. We're on the agenda. And as a first point, we have a legislative text. Debate taken into consideration of the Proposal for a Law, to be presented before the Congress of Deputies, of the G.P. Joint amendment to Law 50/1997 of 27 November 1997 of the Government
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u2	For the presentation of the bill, you have the floor, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u3	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. They will certainly agree with me that few bills come at such a time for a parliamentary debate as this which we have just presented at this time, just two days after an election process in the General Courts of the State in which, while recognizing the possibility of the formation of a government of the State at a time close by, the existence of a government in functions is not exclusive to this period of interintence but that it already comes from a much more prolonged period of interinence over time. And it is that, at least in this part of parliamentaryism, it seems that Galician society is part of a political space, Spain, where we are increasingly Europeans and more Europeans where we refer to a truly multipartyist configuration of its parliamentary dynamics and that, if well conceived in the year 78 with an imperfect bipartisan vocation, with an occasional presence of parties that could support the two major parties for whom the parliamentary regime was conceived, social reality and sociological reality, and finally its electoral projection, gave a different reality. In this sense, it is true that we are going with some delay in the dynamics of the rest of the countries around us, of the rest of Europe, who have been living in this reality for about two or three decades. We are relatively late, but here we are, and we are Europeans in that sense. I wanted to say that by half all else, because, if it is true that here we are already fully incorporated by this completely multi-pardist, multi-partyist dynamic, it is true that we have not just crystallized in Spanish political culture the idea of reaching great pacts so that we can conform most of them both to light governments and to the general functioning dynamics of the General Courts. And I want to do right now, on behalf of En Marea, a defense of parliamentaryism so conceived; that is, a defense of a parliamentary system where multipartyism with electoral representation is a virtue. And it's a virtue because it forces the political forces to seek agreements, to seek consensus, and to put on the table programmatic points, priorities that are not only electoral priorities, that are social priorities, that seek to determine which should, in all possible ways, be the most convenient to get both a government and a legislature forward. We think that this is a virtue because it involves coexistence and assumes the possibility that various political forces might put together their programs, put in common agreements, so that they can get forward to the normal functioning of institutions, so that they can finally legislate, so as to ultimately improve people's lives. So we also want to reject at this point the number of sera that sometimes in situations like the current one proclaims that it must govern the most voted list, obviously what the parliamentary system means in which it has to reflect a plurality, a social complexity that has a logical translation in parliamentary dynamics as well. It cannot be obvious that social wealth, translated into political wealth and translated into a parliamentary political diversity, must also be reflected both in the action of government and in the legislative action of composing just these majority. Without going further, a proclamation in this sense, in case of prosperity, would result in the next government of the state being based solely on a political force that gained 28% of votes, which is highly meritorious but would leave out of that representativeness, at the time of the Government's conformation, for nothing but the other 72% of that electoral representation. And we think that's not good. It is not good because it is necessary for society to be reflected also in its government, and how much more support is needed, so when the composition of most is more complete to determine the illumination of a new government and, therefore, the establishment of majority for the lexical activity of institutions, more social consensus will be around that government's action, because that government will be more representative of a more important part of the population. We think that, in view of the idea of the most voted lists, the list of the most voted ideas must prevail. And this means, on many occasions, putting together agreements, putting together programmes, renouncing maximisms in favour of ideas that form a state of view of the time go forward, both in the activity of the executive and, of course, in the activity of the legislator. So it's a defense of constitutional architecture at this point to make this plurality prevail also when it comes to lighting up a new government and also for the full dynamics of the administration's action. This is what happens, with different formulas, with different tests and solutions, throughout Western Europe, where we find ourselves immersed. Therefore, it is part of a way of understanding the democratic culture, the democratic culture that plurality enriches and that plurality gives rise to government actions that are understood as positive for the population as a whole. Now, as long as that position is not reached and that idea is not reached among the political forces that have representation in the Courts, we are living in the state political landscape — in which it drinks, and also, in that sense, suffers its consequences, both the Greek society in particular and the Spanish society in general — the suffering of a lack of government that ceases to be punctual in order to have a much more widespread character in time — not to be structurally, of course, but with a much more extended character in time — as a consequence of precisely what we have just commented on, the difficulties that political forces represented in the Courts find in reaching investment agreements. This situation led to long periods of status of the so-called "government in functions" between 2016 and 2019, with numerous side effects for the population; side effects, in addition, which were reported to be negative. One of the most outstanding is the change in the normal functioning of the constitutional design of the state of autonomy, by budgeting not only the budgetary processing cycle but also the normal spending capacity of autonomous communities. From En Marea we think that the normality of the state of autonomy cannot be altered by the absence of invested government, because both institutions make up constitutional architecture; that is, the functioning of autonomy, the functioning of our country, the normal functioning of the Greek administration, cannot be conditioned, cannot be subordinated, to which there is a government invested in full functions. Why? Because the state of autonomy itself, the very recognition of the powers of self-government, is part of the constitutional state. It is contradictory — and we understand — that the absence of the Government of the State with full functions prevents the normal functioning of the institutions, namely the normal functioning of autonomy, when precisely the autonomous State was conceived with the idea that they function in its competence with own dynamics, both in political and economic, and that they therefore maintain the carrying out of activities and the provision of services irrespective of the vicissitudes experienced in the General Courts. The autonomous state, in addition — you know, ladies and gentlemen — ensures the necessary provision to guarantee basic rights and even fundamental rights, and is thus collected in the list of competences of our autonomy statute. Let us not forget that in many cases they possess exclusive powers and therefore in this field they guarantee fundamental rights, even constitutionally protected, as you know, directly before the courts. What were the consequences of this anomaly, that there could be interference with the normal functioning of the state of autonomy in its economic and performance dimension by the existence of a government in function? Well, this anomaly has been — we can see it in the political debate over the past few months — repeatedly taken advantage of by different political parties. We're not going to put our finger here pointing to a specific situation, because there's been a number of them over the last few years. It was taken advantage of to cross reproaches and to ensure socially threats of cuts in public services, and even to question payrolls, something which causes logical alarm in the population, the victim of a situation of which he is at all responsible. Because citizenship fulfills its democratic role, which is to select representatives and representatives who therefore have the duty to wake up to rule. So he's a victim of an interim situation that he's not responsible for. We understand from En Marea that there are not enough conjunctural solutions, because this is increasingly frequent and therefore should not be desirable logic, in the functioning of the constitutional architecture or in the functioning of the interinstitutional relationship, to go to the courts to demand the payment of amounts due and not to put the state's counsel in a continuous and interested manner when reporting on economic capacity or not, or what can be done or not, with a government in function. And it is up to us to carry out the structural reforms necessary for this not to happen in the future, and therefore the duty that we have to ensure Galician political and economic autonomy, to ensure first and foremost the normal functioning of our self-government and finally, and especially from the citizen point of view, to ensure continuity in the provision of basic services and of course the payment of wages. So we need a structural solution. The functioning of autonomy cannot be conditioned or threatened by the existence of governments in functions that have the purpose, precisely, to reverse the normal functioning of institutions. And besides, we also understand that for the future it cannot be a partisan weapon of blackmail to the other parties or blackmail to the whole population. This situation that I'm describing here, and that nobody's getting away with it, is getting more and more frequent. And so, in order to safeguard the normal functioning of the State and its autonomy in its economic dimension during this increasingly frequent interim period and dilated in Spanish politics, it is in our opinion to achieve a solution that overcomes the normative loopholes and, in turn, is the least invasive possible when conditioning the new government that at the moment can light up the General Courts. That is why we are now bringing to the House a proposal for structural reform which is neutral and which is not invasive, or which is the least invasive possible, in relation to the conditioning of the action of governments that then are instituted with full functions in the General Courts of the State. We think this demands a timely intervention, which must come from the reform of Law 50/1997, from the Government of the State, which, as you know, has a Title IV which regulates the powers of the Government of the State in function. The object of this reform would, first of all, be to attribute powers — because it has been questioned during the last few months that the Government had certain powers to intervene in this matter —, which could be the minimum. And, therefore, we make a proposal that seems to us less invasive — but in any case it is subject to the consideration of its lordships — which has a concrete purpose, which is to ensure the normal functioning of the economic and budgetary dimension of the autonomous communities as a way to ensure the full viability of the state of autonomy, collected constitutionally, as you know, in articles 137 et seq. of the Constitution. And here we act as the Welsh House, in the name of the general Greek interest, but also in the name of the general interest in the functioning of the institutions, as the constitutional archetype is designed. The Autonomous Community of Galicia, which is legitimately interested in the normal functioning of its self-government institutions in order to provide services, activities and ensure the rights collected in its Statute of Self-Government, must therefore urge this reform in the light of Article 87(2) of the Constitution. We want, from En Marea, to propose that this House should take a step closer, firstly, to benefit the Greek society as a whole, but, at the same time, to strengthen the autonomy of other nations and other regions of the State, as well as to ensure the fundamental rights and social rights collected both in the Spanish Constitution and in the various autonomy statutes, which, in other words, could be challenged by this circumstance that we all have at this moment. We therefore want to bring about a reform of Law 50/1997, with the addition of an additional paragraph to Article 21 — it would be a 3a — that, within the Government's Article in function, it would say that the Government in function may approve the necessary regulatory provisions to ensure the regular financial functioning of autonomous communities in the concepts of updating the deliveries to the account, return of previous business monthly VAT and due amounts, if so, for the economic incentive to comply with the objectives of budgetary stability, public debt and expenditure rule. We understand that the configuration of this article is made as less invasive as possible and less conditioning as possible for the next government that is invested by the General Courts. At the same time, it enables the economic functioning of the autonomous community to be ensured in such a way that neither social benefits nor proper action by the autonomous community throughout its public sector, as a result of the threat, for example, of pay. Well, in the view of In Marea that this is a good measure, which is a neutral measure, which is a measure that benefits the whole world equally, which is a measure of a political character which draws from the party's debate a situation of functioning of institutional normality and guarantees the self-government of Galicia—as well as that of other autonomous communities, but, in what interests this House primarily, the self-government of Galicia—and therefore, the ordinary provision of services to the whole population, which is what we need, to improve its general well-being, is why we bring to this House a bill that we think will be supported by the whole House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Villares. Round of the other parliamentary groups. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u5	Good morning to all and to all. I wanted to comment on two previous questions. First, I wanted to send a warm greeting and our condolences to the mariners' loved ones we lost today in our country. And also, secondly, to send from here our solidarity with the people of Bolivia right now that they are going through a real coup d'état. [[Applause]] From the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego we can share, Mr Villares, with the Joint Group many of the aspects that you have pointed out here; among others, the concern about how this permanent instability, or rather, irresponsibility, of the political groups and state policy at the last glaze has affected Galicia. The fact that we come on this last weekend of the fourth state-level elections in four years realizes how this affects us in multiple ways, and also when we manage our accounts. But we also have to say that there are questions, in the background and in the focus of the answer, that we don't share. We understand that what this country has experienced in recent years — in recent months, particularly — was the consequences of the lack of political power, the consequences of not being able to use Galicia, and not a problem of normative choice, but really what we've been seeing was that the Central Government wanted to blackmail the Board of Galicia, he wanted to blackmail all the autonomous communities. And here too, we had the added problem that the German Government was not able to assert the position of this country. So we think that, beyond policy choices that can be solved with an allowance to this Law 50/1997, what we saw was a default political blackmail route sheet and with relief, as I will explain later. In any case, before entering the concretion, I would also like to make a reflection, because we are talking about the explanatory statement — and we have also said here — that this instability affects ordinary issues about how it is the very budgetary cycle of the Galician Union and how our accounts are developed. It has a certain part, but we believe that it should also not invisibility another fundamental problem that we have as a country. We must ask ourselves: what affects our organizational capacity more, a delay, for example, in facilitating what the liquidation of the budget system will be so that we can make budgets in time and form and with reliable information or rather the political and financial corset we live in? For us it is clear that the first one can give certain insecurity, it can be useful for a government to make a more conservative account or anything else, it can be worth all this and it can generate uncertainty. In any case, in many cases this can be solved, as has already been done twice in this legislation, by changing budgets. But another question, the fundamental question, this absolutely unjustifiable political corset of the deficit, which makes autonomous communities more accountable for a debt that is then managed to rescue banks or highways in Madrid, that conditions our accounts much more than other matters, and sometimes we forget it in our political priorities. For example, that the Board of Auditors systematically denounces how our health system is absolutely underfunded because it is a matter that we must not forget, because in the end, the self-government in Greece, the ability to decide ourselves and ourselves on our accounts and its destiny, because it often has more to do with that substantive political framework than with matters of the context. And that's for us, because what reveals this question is that really the underlying problem is the economic relationship that Galicia has with the State. And with another system of financing, with another economic relationship, this wouldn't happen to us, as it hasn't happened to Navarre or Euskadi during this time, for example. And this is the result of the anomaly, from our point of view, that in economic terms we depend to such a extent on the Central Government and that we cannot collect ourselves to then negotiate with the State what we owe him for the services he provides in this country, or for matters — which we do not agree — as the existence of that monarchy that sucks from the State but that, as far as we are part of it, we have to see which part we have to approach from Galicia. This is a fundamental issue, which is that we need another economic policy and another economic relationship with the State. In any case, by focusing more on the specific question which the Joint Group is focusing on today, there is something that is undeniable, which would be the need to dialogue and look for more alternatives beyond that fruitless pim-pam-pum that we have seen over the past few months between the Central Government and the Board of Galicia, in which we have also seen — as it were here — a great exercise of hypocrisy. I think if it's necessary to make a little reminder of that damn hemerotheque, in which we saw as different parties at the end they had the same position. First Montoro and then Montero, but the truth is that this was used as blackmail for the communities. First in 2016, for example, Mr. Rajoy ruled and it was the People's Party that didn't report on the delivery data, because there were no budgets and they were in minority, after the June 2016 elections. And, then, the one who is now a minister in office until now because he criticized that the People's Party had done this. The point is, when they had the chance to be in their place, they didn't do the same thing, but unfortunately we saw new months of vodeville in what they did exactly the same thing. Also during these months we want to remember that we have basically seen a failed strategy by the Government of Galician Union, which was unable to enforce our political weight. This situation showed a nonsense, from our point of view, and that was really a political decision on the part of the central government. So, in the end, that part of this problem was unlocked a few days before the general elections we've just faced this Sunday reveals to us a fundamental question. First, it shows that that blackmail was that, blackmail. Secondly, it was not really a problem of legal schools, but it was a problem of clear and obvious political will on the part of the central government. Because in the end, they didn't invent the powder by deciding that payments were made together with monthly transfers of deliveries to the financing system account. We therefore do not oppose the fact that we can, in a constructive spirit, improve the wording of these articles of the Law 50/1997, but we want to reflect here that this cannot excuse us to legitimize what the attitude of the Socialist Party has been in recent months. Because indeed, as I also collected the August Council report of this same year, which later did not want to use to take more stringent measures, because we understand that, with the very legal framework that exists, according to Article 21.3 of Law 50/1997, the Government would be able to act in functions, if not on the basis of that ordinary order of affairs, yes on the basis of reasons of urgency and general interest for its action. But the underlying problem -- and perhaps that was more in Mr. Villares' initial reflection -- was the political panorama that there was and that seems to be going to continue in the state, and that reminds us more of what we could read in Lights of Bohemia, Ramón María del Valle-Inclán, when Mr. Latino talked about tragedy, but it was Max who was telling him that "the tragedy of ours in is a tragedy," because it was really not worthy of such a high genre but rather of a real spook. We're not very convinced and convinced that by a simple adherence to this Law 50/1997, we can solve that deliberate expectation by those who have developed it in other months. So, in that sense, we think that maybe it's not the key, and more at a time when we think that the central government's recentralizing offensive is not over, but it's going to continue, it's going to continue to generate tensions with autonomous communities, it's going to continue to generate tensions with Galicia as soon as it has occasion. And for that, we should focus our ambitions more on finding that Galicia's economic dependence on the state, that relationship, is moving about and we have more ability to decide for ourselves how, when and how we manage our resources. In any case, we are not opposed to this issue either. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. For the Joint Left Group, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u7	Good morning, I also want to start solidarity with the dead German sailor and the coup d'état of imperialism against the people of Bolivia. [[Applause]] I'm sorry to say that, Villares, but the bill we are discussing today is a simple proposal. It is simplistic because it is not true that they are the competences of the Government in terms of why they make it difficult for the Central Government to transfer funds that are owned by the autonomous communities. If a government in function, you can update your deliveries to your system account, but also return the EVI collection corresponding to the month of December 2017, which the People's Party has left unresolved. If you want, you can, as evidenced by the fact that Royal Decree Law 13/2019 has already approved, with a government in function, the update of deliveries to the account. If he doesn't, it's because he doesn't want to, it's not a competition problem. The reason is in the unacceptable act of the Central Government to use power as a weapon of pressure to force opposition parties to approve the state's general budgets. There's no difference here. The People's Party did it when it ruled and now the Socialist Party did it. The initiative is also simplistic because it diverts the debate. The underlying problem is the malfunction of the system of autonomous financing, not the competences of a government in functions. What has happened — what continues to happen — is actually a complex problem that cannot be solved by a simple measure. The problem is that we have an autonomous financing system which has been defined in a phase of economic expansion and which has been hit by the great recession. And that has serious consequences on the level of income. We have a model of self-financing that has expired since 2014, without the absolute majority of the People's Party serving to comply with the legal obligation to renew it; an expired system, struck by the crisis, weakened by the recentralization that has aggravated the problems that this model has already had since its creation. I'm going to talk about two today: the first is the failure of the system; and the second, and most important for today's debate, is the reduced fiscal sovereignty of the autonomous communities. Of course, there's a very serious problem with the system. Estimates of people who know of these issues estimate that there is a deficit of EUR 20 billion in the state as a whole; a deficit that obviously has to do with tax policy, with that fiscal policy that lowers taxes for the rich and, therefore, weakens the ability of public administrations to act, but which also has to do with, has a lot to do with the allocation of resources between the different levels of government. Autonomous communities are responsible for the provision of basic public services, so that premeditated underfunding suffered by autonomous communities inevitably moves to cuts in health and education. The second problem, which I think is the most important thing we are discussing today, is the lack of fiscal sovereignty in the autonomous communities. But, in what we are debating today, that is true of the absolute denial of the role of autonomous communities in shaping the decision-making of strategic budget lines. As the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council has defined, as has been the practice in these years, the Central Government reserves for itself the full capacity to decide. The central government decides what is the deficit figure and how it is divided between the central government and the autonomous communities and the municipalities. The central government decides the expenditure ceiling, decides the income estimate, decides the amount of advances on the account. These are unilateral decisions of the Central Government, which are imposed on them by the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, in any case counting on the complicity of the autonomous governments that belong to the same party as the Central Government. It was like this before, and it's like this now. It's a strategy that breaks the logic of an autonomous state, because it nullifies the ability of autonomous governments to conform to the common position. Here's the problem, and also on the subject we're discussing today. Because the solution to the update of deliveries to the account and to the December 2017 VAT — the legacy left to us by the People's Party — had to be in agreement with the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, with a consensus between the central government and the autonomous communities, not through the legal channels, but through the political and institutional channels, respecting the role the Constitution gives to the autonomous communities. To combat the recentralisation in which we are, and the recentralisation with which the forces of barbarism threaten us, implies developing the role of autonomous governments of autonomous communities in defining the broad lines of State economic policy, especially in the basic figures that determine their budgets. When we discuss the 18th day of the budgets, it will be again evidenced that at the end the budgetary technique of an autonomous community is a sudoku exercise in which to match the figures that come to you from the central government, because they set out what is the level of expenditure, the level of deficit, the level of income; and, therefore, we end up doing an exercise to match those accounts. We clearly say this: we need the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council to act with federal logic; that is, autonomous communities are those involved in the formulation of the broad strategic lines of budgets and economic policy in collaboration with the central government. Finally, the proposal also fails to be simplistic when placing at the same level the right claim to solve the problem of updating advances to the account and the problem of the EVV with that strange demand that we have to compensate for compliance with the orthodoxy of austerity. I can't understand this. That on this initiative the People's Party speaks of this is part of its demagogic strategy, but let's say I don't understand it. I don't buy, the Common Left Group doesn't buy, this PP falsehood. There is no basis for claiming a supposed economic incentive to meet the objectives of budgetary stability, nor can much less be quantified. In fact, I'd like you to tell me where the 170 million euros come from when I speak to the People's Party representative. Well, actually, that figure, the 170 million euros, it was invented by Junta. And it actually serves to quantify the deception. Government Feijóo told us that if they were strictly committed to austerity, if the cuts were made, if they might be the accounts, Galicia would benefit from economic compensation for having been the most applied students in the cut-off course. I think the left bench can't buy that literature, because it's fake. We don't accept it. He did it, of course, he was the most applied student in the cuts. And now we have no prize because there is no basis to justify that proposal. In fact, just like, on the subject of updating, the millions of euros of advance updates on account and the millions of EVI are in the 2019 budget, the People's Party was not able to include the 170 million euros in the 2019 budget. It's obvious what the reason is. I'm done. The complex problems, such as the reformulation of the self-financing model, the imperative needs, such as the federality of decision-making affecting the whole of the state, go beyond this partial modification of government functions in functions. And, therefore, it doesn't seem to us to be an effective measure.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u8	Thank you, Mr. Lago. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Fernández Leicega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u9	Good morning to all and to all. I have to say that the initiative seems well-intentioned to me even if it is misdirected. I think I'm asking a legitimate question but I'm using an instrument to solve it — and I'm going to explain why — that doesn't seem very suitable. I like less the presentation that the group spokesperson made here from the rostrum, among other reasons, because I don't know why he didn't use the election campaign to explain all those thoughts to citizens and to be able to know the level of support they have in society. I know it's legitimate to promote legislative projects that have to deal with Congress. That's completely legitimate. It is also legitimate for a political group to decide not to hold elections. But the two things at once don't stop retiring a little bit, having a problem. There's a little incongruence. But, further, the initiative seeks to better regulate the Government in functions, the title IV of the law already cited, at 50/1997 — which, by the way, has a single article. It's about negative regulating that article, which the Government cannot do in functions, but also positive, what it can do. And in a positive way, it's an extremely open and generic formulation: the ordinary order of public affairs, except for reasons of urgency or general interest. It's about avoiding, let's say, that the Government can use with political benefit, with political advantage, its position being in function, but at the same time leaving a certain level of openness so that the Government has the discretion to be able to handle matters of necessity or urgent correction. And this is what I think is all right; I mean, I have to limit the Government to acts of an administrative and non-political nature, matters of procedure, not matters that can give it that political advantage. This protects proper electoral competition between the parties, and protects citizens from arbitraryness that a government may commit at a time when the level of political control over its actions is lower. I know that the courts have accepted a demand for government in office to subject themselves to parliamentary control of acts that are their own. But in any case, we all know that this level of control is much lower. The initiative aims to be positive about a very specific and very determined aspect, what the Government can do. And this doesn't seem right to us as a regulatory technique, because it leaves many other assumptions open that can be given over time and that, from a perspective like ours, it would undoubtedly be reasonable to understand. We must not legislate according to current emergencies, we must not legislate capriciously or casuisticly, because this will affect regulatory coherence. And I'm saying it's not a legislative technique that seems to us to be too good. How do we believe that this concern should be articulated, that I already say that the concern itself seems legitimate? Well, I'm going to the bottom line. And the bottom line was partly raised here, the bottom line has to do with the functioning of our autonomic system. The spokesperson for the Joint Group referred to Spain as part of the European framework as regards the level of fractionation of its policy options. And I have to say that the blockades happen in Parliament, they don't happen anywhere else. Parliamentary blockades, such as Brexit in the United Kingdom, are also Europeans. Therefore, much more plural representation does not guarantee that solution for anything; on the contrary, it can make it difficult, depending on the behavior of different political actors. But one advantage of our system is that it's a system, let's say, federal - when less in its spirit - and this has a certain singularity in Europe. There are not many European countries that have this level of federalism. And this also benefits all citizens, and for many reasons. But one important reason is that it prevents a change in political preferences from moving to the administration as a whole. And so, when there are political changes, there are always administrations of another sign that are part of the system's operation. And this is good for democratic stability. But our particular federalism is too much of a hierarchy. And that made some difficulties. One of them appears once there is a political blockade situation with too many months of a government in function. Where to solve it? In our opinion, we have to solve this by modifying the system of self-financing. I do not share what the spokesperson for the Joint Group says, that it is the Government, discreetly, that it sets things up for the autonomous communities. No, no, this is done by law, by the Autonomic Financing Act. The autonomic financing system explains how the deliveries to the account should be calculated, how the expenditure ceiling should be calculated, how the expenditure rule should be calculated. All the elements of the system are there, they're there. And if we want to modify it, we need to act on that legislation of the system of autonomic financing. For example, for the determination of deliveries to the account, it says: "The existing forecasts will be used by the Government of the preliminary draft general budget law of the corresponding State of the financial year." That's what legislation says. If we want to do something else, we'll have to change this. But this is the law of 1980 which regulates the system of self-financing. And in the law of 2009, which regulates this model of self-financing, it explains how the deliveries to the IRPF account, VAT, special taxes and the various funds that make up the system are calculated. Determining itself as you do. Do we want to change this? Let's change the law. And for this we must modify the system of autonomous financing, all articles of Law 22/2009, from 12 to 20, which is where it is determined how the deliveries to the account are modified. That's what we'd be trying to do. The rest does not cease to be an act — I say, well-intentioned but I think it is ill-orientated — that we will not oppose what can be discussed and follow the process. We would do, say, a thorough reform of that text, or we would propose an in-depth reform, if we follow the process. But, in any case, we're not going to oppose it because, I say, it addresses an important issue, although we think it's, of course, misdirected. And on matters of substance, I'm going to refer to what we discussed the other day on the issue of deliveries to the VAT account and incentives. At the last plenary session we had a discussion about this and then we fixed our position. With the delivery to the account is the settled question. The IVE demands a fully-fledged Government because at least two legal texts have to be modified in order to do it well. I'd have to do it this year; otherwise, I don't have time. As of the coming year, the matter will be resolved for itself because that change only affects one year. And on the question of incentives, because I don't see where there's the legal basis for determining rights. There are three different situations that must undoubtedly give rise to three different performances as well. And nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u10	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Villares, at the bottom of the matter we have a clear coincidence: we are faced with an unprecedented situation, it's the first time it's not paid. It's not the same as at the time of Mr. Montoro, when the Autonomous Community received these deliveries on its own in June. We're in November and not a single euro has yet been received from these deliveries to the account. The fact is that it is an unprecedented situation, because Galicia owes it EUR 700 million of the deliveries to the account — 330 we expect to receive them over the next few weeks — but also because the State is appropriating a monthly allowance corresponding to the autonomous communities of the collection of VAT — EUR 200 million —. And because it does not comply with the Act of Budgets in force, which is the one that has left the People's Party, which says that the autonomous community can receive compensation which consists of — Mr Lago — that he is forgiven the payment of the debt that the two-party Government has left, that he has left his Government! You say, "How do you calculate that amount?" It's that 85 million euros is what we have to pay for the negative liquidations that left the government bipartisan in the years 2008-2009. And you still ask where the 180 million come from! [[Applause]] For 85 million of the year 2018 and 85 million of the year 2019. Well, what there is, therefore -- and I also wanted to make it clear -- is that there are differences. As I said, Mr. Montoro paid the bills, and Mrs. Montero is still paying them, he hasn't paid them yet. But there is also another important difference, and it is that, when the Socialist Party introduced to the People's Group in January the problem of deliveries to the account, the president of the board said that Galicia had the right to these deliveries to the account, they claimed them and said that he would, of course, fight—as it happened, if they were received—for the deliveries to the account. On the other hand, this time, when the problem is presented, the leader of the Socialist Party — which is the ruling party in Madrid — says that this claim is a theatrical one, that this claim is useless. And, therefore, the difference is that there is a leader who supports Galician claims when they are fair and another who prefers to excuse the failure of their Madrid militants. Well, Galicia started asking for this, the deliveries to the account. Behind came all communities. As a result, several communities announced cuts. Valencia spoke of approximately 400 million euros which would be due for the following year; Balearics, adjustments for 500 million euros. And Galicia announced that there would be no cuts but that, if so, credit would be used. It is clear that this incidence has caused many problems; among other things, in paying the suppliers. And it's true that this is aggravated by the issue of EVI. Indeed, as has been said, the People's Party has reformed the system of immediate provision of information on the basis of the EVV declaration. I don't know if you've read what you've been through Madrid these days -- it's a very recent news from the beginning of November -- the French Minister of Fairy. He didn't make any electoral contact because he was educated and didn't want to participate in the electoral campaign by supporting any party. And he said why he came. Visit Madrid to learn: "If I go to Spain, it is also to inspire me in the measures taken by various governments, it is the case of the fight against fraud. Spain has launched an electronic billing for VAT, VAT fraud is very important." I mean, the system that you say causes this effect on autonomic finance is a system that is against fraud, so I think it's critical of Montoro because he's put in place a system to fight fraud that even comes from France to imitate it because it doesn't seem to me to receive it. And the problem is the 200 million euros or the VlV mode. Indeed, we were so aware of this that the president was in August 2018, with a government perfectly in function, and the minister committed to solving the problem. It was not to modify the VE information system, it was simply to recognize, as LOFCA says, that autonomous communities are responsible for an annuality of the territorialised collection of VE. Well, it turns out that a year later, after that commitment from the socialist minister, the government will communicate to Airef in its report of 16 July 2019, which will not change the information supply system, and that it will benefit you by 0.2% of the deficit, that Airef will warn you that they will have to support autonomous communities. And Airef himself, on 25 October 2019, in the last report — the result of the second communication sent to the European Union by the Government — says that the deficit in autonomous communities is worse because the Socialist Government has decided not to solve the problem of VAT, of the monthlyity of VAT, and that, therefore, they will have a serious problem of non-compliance, which virtually many communities — not the case of Galicia because we have fortunately managed accounts — will have a serious failure to meet the objectives of stability. So that's what's behind it. And that's to be added that Galicia received in 2017, with the Government of the People's Party, 85 million euros that were destined for direct health, and that the current government potentially says it doesn't want to transmit, which gives a very perverse incentive to the self-containing communities. There are more advantages to compliance with the deficit rules, but we will have a chance to talk about them in the budget debate, I'm sure. Well, the consequences of this political behaviour — and contrary to the rules — of the Socialist Party have led to more cuts, more debt increases and postponement of payment to suppliers. And the only thing behind it is the fact that the Government is unable to meet the deficit because it's making a runout in this long electoral campaign. The Government had a deficit commitment to the European Union for the year 2019 of 1.3%, after the motion of censure the PSOE negotiated 1.8% and, when it sent it the stability program, managed to raise it to 2%. And now Airef says we're going at least 2.1% of the deficit. That's what's behind them with the monthly VAT and nothing else. And that is why, precisely how not even with those are able to comply with the deficit rules, what is happening is that the European Union is constantly pulling them from their ears. Well, in these circumstances, and sharing the objective that the Socialist Government makes the decision to give to the Autonomous Community of Galicia what is in accordance with the law, the question is: Is this law necessary?, is this law correct technically?, would this law solve the problem of what we are talking about? And, Mr. Villares, for us the answer to the three questions is not. First, it's not necessary. As I've already told you, the best proof that you could afford is that part of the debt owed to Galicia has already been paid by decree. When? When the elections were convened, in full electoral campaign, and after a long period of pressure to make Mr. Sánchez president. But it can legally be as clear as it was passed by a decree. Obviously it wasn't a theater asking for a decree. Obviously, the decree could be made! Obviously, what the theater was doing was what it said, because there was no fully constituted government, they couldn't afford those amounts. [[Applause]] And indeed it has been shown — because they are paying — that these amounts could be paid. The law, of course, allows. The Board's report to the Government of Spain and to parliamentary groups makes it clear that the Constitutional Court clearly allows the appropriations to be adapted to legal obligations previously entered into, as is the case with LOFCA. It is the LOFCA which governs budgets rather than the existence of budgets which influences the approval of budgets. I mean, it's the LOFCA that commands, it's a pre-compliant obligation; therefore, it's the one that conditions budgets, not the other way around. Of course, there are precedents, the Government of Spain in Rajoy's time passed by royal decree — being in function — the extension of unemployment benefits to older persons; and there was therefore a clear case of commitment to social expenditure. And the current government, curiously, has approved an agreement for the Ministry of Defence to hire 346 armoured, which I think is good; but if a five-year commitment to buy tanks — or armoured vehicles — is not a commitment for future expenses... it was said that it was not a cost problem, but it was a technical problem. It's true, so it can be done, it's done, and it's clearly a problem of political will. We don't think it's necessary because it's not necessary, and secondly, your proposal is not technically correct. Because the problem with VVE is once and for all, it's this exercise. And to pass a law with general vigency to solve a problem that has a solution, to do it through a general reform of a law, because it seems absolutely unnecessary to us. His text, by the way, says, "I could pay." I mean, your text doesn't even make it compulsory to pay those amounts. This could be solved by amendment, but in any case, it does not seem right for us to reform a general rule to solve a problem of a year with a Government that is appropriate to a number of autonomous communities. In conclusion, you can pay. What we need is for the Government to pay; otherwise, we will see ourselves in the courts — something that the Government has not ruled out — in relation to the VAT. You approve it, in addition, I would give an alibi to the Socialist Party, who we know can pay and who did not want to pay for political and budgetary reasons. So we're not going to support him. And to finish, I mean that you will understand the frustration that invades us in the People's Parliamentary Group. When we arrived in the Government, in the years 2008 and 2009 we found that we had to return — and we kept returning — €2.2 billion of the overpayments to the account that received the two-party government, the famous negative liquidations. That marked all the budgetary exercises since 2009, for the extra money that the Socialist Government of Madrid gave to the progressive government of Galicia but which is paying the Government of the People's Party. And now, this year, what happens is that, more importantly, when we still do not stop paying that debt, it turns out that what belongs to Galicia the Socialist Government of Madrid — which before it gave too much — does not. So, give less than it corresponds to you. All these issues I suppose the people of Galicia will take them into account; and, in fact, the final election results give us reason to think that, indeed, the people of Galicia knows that when you rule, when you rule, you leave us indebted, and that when we rule, they also take debts with us. And so, of course, it's not easy to rule. But, of course, we will continue to defend Galicia's interests in budgetary matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u12	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Replica from the author group of the bill. Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u13	Today we have brought, since En Marea, not a proposal for a model-change of funding, as it seemed to have been suggested from one of the parliamentary groups. We have brought something much more modest and much more simplistic — to pick up the words of some of the Members who spoke. And we talk about something as simple as ensuring that citizenship has access to economic resources to those who have the right to the ordinary functioning of its autonomy; and therefore to the ordinary functioning of hospitals, schools, dependency, active employment policies, promotion or equality between women and men. We intend to shield autonomy at the economic level to prevent this from being part of the partisan blackmail in the transition periods, in the interim periods of absence of government in full of functions, and hence that from coming out of the partisan debate. We wanted it to be clear, by means of a legislative reform, what the Government has to do. We didn't want him to stay under the shadow of the threat, under the shadow of blackmail. Because if the question were so clear, we wouldn't be talking about it all these months, now in 2019 and not in 2018. To many parties, or to some parties, it seems that the only thing that interests you in this matter is to be able to cross reproach rather than achieve solutions, solutions that are structural and that are neutral, that affect equally whoever governs on the board of Galicia and whoever governs it in the state. And that's what we're trying to shorten today. This rule was a rule of self-sustainment. And it is true that, of course, as we know from the other parliamentary groups, we do not agree with this financing model. But this isn't about this model of funding, neither unique nor primarily. This is about that, given the circumstances, we want a solution that doesn't make us depend on these blackmails so that we can reach a solution or not. If the People's Party was in agreement with the substance of the matter, we thought there was room to be able to negotiate in the process of amending the formulation of the VAT, the formulation of the imperative character, the power, etc. There were ways to reach agreements if you wanted to. Then there's another question. If there was a demonstration that if you could, because those deliveries were passed by royal decree, we hope that this will give you the opportunity to never speak again here about the subject of the rest of the pending quantities. We know that's not the case, we know that everything hasn't been paid, even what the Galician Union is posing. We are interested in the transfer of all that amount, not because we want to support the Government, of course, but we do want the resources that correspond to us not beyond our reach, so that the Administration can fulfill its role, which is to secure rights to citizenship. And we wanted that right-assurance debate not to be conditional on the absence of a government in the State Courts. This is to shield autonomy, that is, regardless of whether the government is a friend or an enemy — in terms of sometimes employed in parliamentary dynamics — the insurance of benefits and the normal functioning of autonomy is guaranteed. And, moreover, there is another question: if it was so clear in normative terms, why didn't it go to the courts at first and why didn't it be asked in a cautious way to deliver those amounts? —which, as you know, is a resource that allows the Law of Dispute-Administrative Jurisdiction—so that there was neither a possibility of speculating whether the benefits were paid or not paid or whether they were suspended here or in any other autonomous community. Resources with precautionary measures, none of which is fixed. Why? Because it is clear that it was not so clear that no one wanted to carry the political burden of going to the courts to ask for precautionary measures and that they were denied by the courts. And it's normal, it's normal that you don't want to take that risk. The only way to not run that risk is by structural reform that pulls out of the partisan debate, which pulls out of political blackmail, basic institutions in our country are going to work. Because there is no self-government institution that works without money. So, of course, it's not just a question of whether a certain benefit or a certain salary is suspended. It's just, if not, without the resources, nothing works. And that's why we thought this was a good decision, that this was a good proposal; a proposal that, for some, simply, might seem little ambitious. We wanted to pose the strictest, least necessary, for this. Of course, more ambitious and clear reforms could be made, and a debate on funding could be opened. We, in fact, support it and bring it to this House on numerous occasions; but today we wanted to solve a specific problem. And unfortunately, time will give them reason. We will see it in the next few weeks and we will certainly see it in the coming years, because parliamentary dynamics have changed, political dynamics have changed. We do not agree, as was said here, that party plurality in cameras is either a problem or an obstacle. We believe in that plurality, as we also believe in the right to improve the quality of life of the Greeks and the Greeks, to make proposals for legislative reform in this House to be discussed in the Congress of Deputies, without that the censorship of any group is worth. For this reason, since In Marea we still ask for the last support of all groups in a reform which, despite being very simple, very timely, despite being a very basic reform, is a reform that would ensure tranquility in the normal functioning of our Autonomous Community and hence a guarantee of the self-government of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u14	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Voting of the legislative text
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u15	After we have finished the debate on this bill, on this legislative text, we shall proceed to the vote. Close the doors, please. Voting of the consideration of the Bill, to present to the Congress of Deputies, of the G.P. Joint amendment of Law 50/1997 of 27 November 1997 of the Government. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 13; against, 35; abstentions, 19. The result of the vote is negative. Consequently, the consideration of this bill is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u16	Finished voting. Open the doors. We continue with point 2 of the agenda, which is that of appearances. Two requests are collected at the same point. The opinion of Mrs. Counsellor for Social Policy, on his own request, to report on the situation of care for older persons in Galicia The opinion of Mrs. Counsellor for Social Policy, at the request of the GGs. PP. of the Galician Socialists, of the Galego and Mixed Nationalist Block, to account for the situation of the oldest residences in Galician Union and to explain the cuts made and the non-enlargement of staff paintings that are negatively affecting a decent and quality benefit in the centres of older persons and in the centres of minors in Galician Union
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u17	In order to formulate this audience, the Social Policy Advisor, Ms. Fabiola García Martínez, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u18	President, ladies and gentlemen, very good days. Before I begin my intervention, I'd like to move our condolences to the mariner's family who died in the Port of Sound. I am pleased today to have the opportunity to come to this House to discuss one of the priority areas for the Social Policy Council and for the whole of Galicia, such as the attention of our elders. The biggest are those who owe us everything we are, the greatest are a very important part, in all respects, of our society. The largest are the nucleus of many families and the pier to build Galicia of families. Because, ladies and gentlemen, Galicia today is not understood without those who have given everything to build what we are. Older people are a source of knowledge from which we all drink today, they are a safe value for Galicia's present and are therefore also essential for the construction of a better society. We all have the responsibility to ensure their well-being so they can enjoy this stage of their lives as they deserve; when they are autonomous, with active aging programs that help them to stay lucid, to stay vital, for as long as possible and, when they are already dependent, with high-quality professional services to cope with this new stage. The Galician Union puts all its efforts to make these words come true. They are made with what we can say today in Galicia is much easier than before, much easier than it was ten years ago; made like going over the more than 8,000 public squares in residences, 42% more than a decade ago; reaching the more than 3,300 public squares in day centers, while in 2009 they didn't even reach 1,000; multiplying by 6 beneficiaries of the Home Help Service, and reaching already the 24,000 users; and setting up also innovative services and proximity services that we approach to our rural areas to give them the best care, such as the homes of the elder or the care door-to-door, which during this year met more than 2,000 people in 20 Greek municipalities. However, in just two years, we have managed to overcome the goal marked for all legislation to arrive and to overcome today the 60,000 dependents attended. Today almost 9 out of every 10 recognized-dependence Greeks receive a public benefit. And Galicia places almost 8 points above the state average in its attention ratio. But we're aware that there's still a lot to go on and that's why we work day by day to improve existing services and also to keep creating more and more new services every day. Our ambition does not end when we reach the highest quality services for a greater number of people, because we also seek to bring ourselves closer to the preferences of users, our elders, to meet their needs, but also their wishes, so that they can fully enjoy this new stage of their life. And in this sense, it's crucial to know where you want to spend the last few years of your life, either in your homes, in your neighborhoods and in your parishes, or one of the specialized care centers in all of Galicia. Many older ones whom I find day by day during my visits to the Greek Town Councils indicate that they prefer to be cared for in their usual place, in their home, in their home. And that's exactly why the German Government has several programs and various programs in place to guarantee the freedom of the Greeks to grow up in their own home. The Home Help Service, which is a program where we are pioneers in Spain, is one of the best rated services by users who want to be cared for in their own home; 24,000 people receive home help service, 1 out of every 3 dependents attended, 6 times more than in 2009. It is a service managed by the Greek municipalities but which largely finances the Galician Union and whose investment will be increased by the year 2020 at 1.6% to more than 76.3 million euros. The program "smoothing at home" is a program that is very successful, using home use over 40,000 menus a month and with users of more than 170 Greek municipalities. The impulse of advanced teleassistion, in close collaboration with the Red Cross, is a service that is already enjoyed by about 6,000 users in our community. It works 24 hours a day of 365 days a year, and it has support resources, like the new geolocations. With the care program door-to-door is the approach of the elderly who live in rural services such as optometry, podology, personal support and memory stimulation. In 2019 more than 2,000 people were treated in 20 Greek municipalities, and in 2020 it will increase by ten, reaching 200 municipalities in Galicia. And, if not, the first homes of the largest, small day centers in the Italian countryside have been set up, totally free of charge for all users, who in 2020 will double their presence to reach 60 facilities. The welcome and success of all these programs that I have just listed to you makes it clear that Galicia today remains a social service reference that allows our seniors to stay in their home and surroundings without giving up on being cared for. Ladies and gentlemen, since it could not be otherwise, the Council of Galicia considers it a priority to ensure quality care at all residential centres in Galicia, whatever its title. For that, the Greek Government will increase next year the funds intended to maintain and hire new public squares of attention to our elders, which will allow you to overcome the 8,000 squares, 42% more than a decade ago. In addition, and as you know, in the coming months, seven new comprehensive centres will be built to care for older people in the seven major cities of Galicia, which will increase the supply with nine hundred public squares per cent. We're talking about an investment of 90 million euros, which will be assumed entirely by the Amancio Ortega foundation, so that the Greeks and the Greeks don't have to disburse even one euro. And once built, these centres will be made available to the Autonomic Administration to join the public network of larger centers. In addition to these seven new centres, which will be a reference in Galicia, Spain and Europe, in 2020 we will also have important improvements in public care centres for older people. In this sense, I think it is important here to highlight the economic effort made by the Galician Board to reform the residence of Campolongo, in Pontevedra, with three and a half million euros; to move forward in the modernization of the residence of the largest of Ferrol, with 1.8 million euros; to complete the expansion of the residence of the largest of Sardinian, where we invested a total of 1.7 million euros; or to culminate the improvements in the residences of the largest of Burela and Barbados. So that people who are waiting for a public residence square may go to the centre of seniors of their election, the Galician Union will also lend them their support, and for that we have the Autonomy bonus in residence. It's a direct aid to those people who, having recognized a degree of dependence, are waiting for access to a public residence square. The accounts for these benefits have increased with respect to last year. For grade 1 dependents, a maximum of 300 euros to a maximum of 360 euros, a further 20%; for grade 3 dependents, another 20%, increased from up to EUR 715 to EUR 858; and for grade 2 dependents, they experienced a historic increase of 75%, so their maximum increased from EUR 426 to EUR 745. Since last April, 19,000 Galicians and Greeks have seen the counties and benefits of their dependence increased. The aid for a caregiver of his own family increased from a maximum of 387 euros to a maximum of 426 euros, which is 10% more. Turning Galicia into a reference to care for older people would not be possible without the important work that professionals do in different fields. More than 6,500 women and men working with vocation, day by day, to ensure the well-being of older people. At the same time as the increase in the number of public care facilities for older people — as I said before — 42% more than when we arrived at the Government — they were strengthening the public staff paintings that cater for our residences. These 6,500 people account for 10.3% more troops than in 2009 and 3.2% more than in 2018. I would like to take advantage of my intervention to thank the excellent professionals of the residences and public day centres for all they do day by day for improving the well-being and quality of life of our elders. We are aware that in order to ensure the best possible attention it is necessary for professionals to have optimal working conditions, because only then will we be able to make Galicia the best place to grow. Over the course of these years, we have been steadily increasing the number of people who care for public care centres; an increase that has enabled us to improve the quality of the service that is provided to users; improving the reconciliation of work and the personal and work life of our workers; and more importantly, reducing the workload in part also, and very important, by modernizing the technical aid, much more ergonomic, which facilitates the handling of workloads. Ladies and gentlemen, the increase in staff carried out allowed us to improve the working situation of our workers, who could have gone from seven consecutive days of work to five; even in most cases only four consecutive days of work. From three consecutive nights' work went to two, and from one weekend's rest to one in two. If there is no compensation for working on weekends, receiving an equivalent of 50% of the work done on Sundays. Of the 1,665 maximum annual hours of the V Convention, the Council's employees make 5.4%. And recently, we just approved a new modification of the employment relationship, the RPT, of the Social Policy Council; a change that allowed us to increase the daily averages of many full-time nursing and technical staff assistants, such as physical therapists and occupational therapists, and also to create new jobs in the territorial heads of Coruña, Lugo, Ourense and Vigo. The increase in the number of Council staff and the change of posters I have just cited as well, has resulted in an improvement in the ratio of direct care staff in senior care centres. As you will know, the regulations governing the conditions and requirements that must be met by the care centres for older persons establishes that the minimum ratio of direct care staff in full-day arrangements is 0.20 per user with mild or moderate autonomy or dependency and 0.35 for severe or long-dependence dependents. In order to achieve this goal, the daily work carried out by social service inspectors is essential, and they thoroughly verify that the personnel ratio that marks the regulations is being observed every day is being complied with and that they provide the highest quality attention. Thus, verification of the personnel ratio is done in function — as I have said on other occasions — of the number of residents and their level of dependency. Therefore, this ratio will be updated daily depending on the level of user dependency, because it does not exist, as you know, a static ratio, but it is constant over time and it is a dynamic ratio. It is not, as I have said on other occasions, a freely chosen or arbitrarily fixed figure, but it meets the needs of the centre in question and is given by the regulations in force. In this calculation of the minimum staff ratio, account is taken of the actual replacement of workers for job charges, replacements and pay-offs; i.e., that voluntary staff are not computed, neither staff in practice, nor workers who are on medical leave, leave, licenses or surpluses. In the latter case, the quality of the service that our seniors receive is fully guaranteed and does not suffer any significant changes, since for the replacement of the staff of the centres it is according to the recruitment lists that Public Service manages in each province. Annual inspection plans show that the vast majority of Welsh social services centres comply with the regulations and guarantee quality care for all users. Improvements in the conditions of professionals who care for our seniors have not only increased this ratio of staff, but there has also been a wage increase. Since 2017, Council staff salaries have increased by 1%; in 2018, they increased by 1.75%; and in 2019, the increase was 2.5%. And for the year 2020 it contains an increase of 2,2 % compared to that of the previous year. Galicia has made a great deal of progress in caring for our elders, but, of course, we must always recognize that we still have a lot, a lot to do. But all the facts point to the fact that the Galicians and the Greeks today have many more options to grow up as freely as they want and always count on the attention of the staff they need. For that, in the budgets of the year 2020 we envisage 450 million euros in the area of major and disability; 5.2% more than in the previous year, or the same, six out of ten euros managed by the Social Policy Council. When we get to a new life stage, we always have a bigger one next to us that guides us on the new path, advises us to make the best decisions and makes the transition much easier. It's not the same with them. We are all, as a society, responsible for returning this favor to them and guaranteeing them all the care and attention they have given us for many years. With this clear objective, it is with which the Council of Galicia works and with which it fights every day the Council of Social Policy. Ladies and gentlemen, the commitment of the German Government is only to ensure that the people who use the residences and the various centres of the Council sit in these centres as well as in their own homes. But we also worry that the professionals who care for them contain the best working conditions and a reasonable workload, thanks to the compliance with the ratios that sets the current legislation. This is more evidence than our biggest and most caring people are and will always be one of the priorities of the Galician Union. We will continue to take steps to reach the goal of a better society, where our older ones can become more freely, actively and fully integrated into our society. Steps such as the management of the dining service at home, to ensure that older people contain every day with healthy and balanced food in their own home. Steps like advanced Teleassisté, to allow more than 5,700 older people to have professional support 24 hours a day, when they feel insecure, when they sit alone or when they have an accident. Steps as a reinforcement in the Home Help service, so Galicia will always be a reference throughout Spain. Care goes from door to door to the rural elders with mobile and free services of podology, optometria and social work. Steps like those of the House of Major, small centers of day in the country of Galicia that allow the Greek families to be able to reconcile, and the Plan of attention to the older people who live alone, as a result of the excellent and recent longevity of our society. That's why we're working on a strategy of prevention and attention to loneliness, whose work will begin by drawing up a census of people who live alone and do not want to live alone. We will deal with this situation and we will always work on the hand of Fegamp, but for that we all need to work together to achieve this goal. I can assure you that the Social Policy Council will continue to develop actions for the welfare of older people in Galicia, and I sincerely trust that all parliamentary groups share these goals that we have set ourselves, because the well-being of our older people never understands political colors. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u19	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. The Joint Group has the floor to Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u20	Thank you, President. First of all, I wanted to transfer the condolences of the Joint Group to the deceased mariner, but also our complaint of the coup d'état in Bolivia. Prior to this appearance, I would like to say, since we are talking about the Social Policy Council, which also needs a parliamentary presence — and we have requested it in committee — on the question of poisoning in children's schools, or at least an official and rigorous explanation and an official and rigorous contact with the families concerned, who are very concerned, in the sense that these are multiple cases of poisoning, mild yes, but with allergic reactions, in children under 3 years, in different schools, with different menus, but with the characteristic of the same company that centralized the supply. One of the measures of the board, the proposed measure, was the supply of food and kitchenware. We, of course, defend that this must be the model. It's not the subject of this appearance, but we want to make it clear because it's a matter that is worrying a lot, and the opposition has requested your presence in committee. This attendance requested today by the Government, as you have just done, to report generically on the situation of older people, I want to remember that it accumulates one that we demand the opposition. The object of this appearance was to clarify the situation of the residences of senior members of the board and explain the personnel cuts that occurred and how this negatively affects the decent and quality provision in the centres of older people. I quote literally what you're asking for, and there's also a unanimous request in Commission 5a. But, in addition, it is preceded by a situation during this summer that has revealed a structural element of the Galician Union's policy in relation to non-replacement in casualties and personal permits in the direct care centres for both older persons and persons with disabilities; a structural situation that has to do with the lack of personal investment. In the end, this results in a decline in the quality of attention. You yourself have pointed out that over 2009 there are 10.3% more troops, but according to your data, 40% more people in residences. There's already a obvious disparity. Before we get caught up in this serious situation of attention in the residences of our country's third age, I'm going to start with this appeal for proximity. We agree, the residential service is the last resort. But what's going on? It must be preceded by a comprehensive prevention policy, comprehensive care services for older people in the family and community environment which does not exist either. There are no squares in day centers and there is no need to push the model of day centers that don't understand these day centers like, let's say, residence substitutes, but rather as a empowerment of personal autonomy. Even in the residential service that residential residents are most distributed across the territory, to avoid these long displacements of people who need a residence, who unfortunately need that service, but who have to go to miles and kilometers from their place of origin. And there's also a real empowerment of the home help service, because we're going to be pioneers, but the job precariousness of the service is tremendous. The impossibility of giving all the hours that are granted to people who are recognized by this provision of dependency is obvious, is a global situation in all the municipalities of the country, and we need to find a formula that allows for a minimum quality and maximum extension of this service, the home support service throughout the country. Going to the residences, he said this summer was tremendous in many of them, he reported it to the IGC and made this request for appearance that the opposition groups register. We wanted a further explanation for the often reported inspections in the press in direct care centres, because, in the end, it also denounces this same union that these inspections were not carried out in the key days in which precisely the greatest non-recovery of care ratios were recorded; that is, in August, in the summer, from 15 to 18 August. In fact, we were transferred to this union center that in the public residences of the province of Coruña in the summer, these inspections were not carried out, where there are more public residences in the Union, of its own management and also of private management, and the centers with more people in the country. I mean, we're talking about macrocentres, they're registering a bigger workload. The reality is that they have the same staff for inspection -- as the Board of Auditors pointed out -- about 20 years ago, and the actual ratio is not being monitored per day. There are few plans, there are few inspections, and there is little transparency, and we have just seen it, in relation to these, with respect to the opposition. In addition, during this summer the IGC also denounced — speaking of those substitute lists to which it referred — that fingered contracts were used, by exhaustion of the same lists of substitutions since June, for a lack of forecast. And before that, what did the Social Policy Council do? You can explain here this complaint from the IGC. Instead of making calls to employment offices to search for these staff vacancies, according to merit and capacity, because contracts have been made without advertising to cover the absences. This is very serious. We will repeat the request for explanations about this, but we also denounce the lack of foresight of the Board and also a structural reality: there are no people to cover these lists because the assistants and nurses — and I speak in women because they are mostly women who work in this sector — prefer to work in Sergas, even considering the working conditions of Sergas, for example, that they are on these lists, because work is absolutely exhausting. So beyond this summer situation, which is when the worst situations are recorded, we wanted to talk — it won't give me time — about the structural deficit situation in the homes of older people. You yourself have reported this gradual, yet not complete, recovery from the right to rest of staff as a gift from the Government, when it is a right recognized by the Fifth Collective Staff Convention of the Galician Union, and it should already be suspended — worth redundancy — that suspension of Article 19 of the Fifth Convention, every time it has been — supposedly — applied because of the economic crisis. Since 2014 GDP has grown, but this suspension has continued. They're staff rights, and this for years has resulted in a burden of work on an increasingly old staff. It's a reality, residents' staff are getting older, in addition, they haven't even promoted there was a training or technical means to facilitate that hard work, which is about posture movements to older people. Finally, we are talking about a structural situation which, as I say already, will not give me time to develop, but we could sum it up in five points. One is the low ratio of old-age residential squares and the high degree of privatization of them. We're the autonomous community with the highest percentage of private squares above all, not the squares that are there. Moreover, the modality that Junta chose, according to the Board of Auditors itself, to increase these squares is essentially the concert, not the creation of public squares. And now we see how they boast about these squares that will create the Ortega Amancio Foundation. It was a trap that announcement of Feijóo's plan as at home. It's been budgeting on the different accounts of each year and at the end it was fake that were going to be done at the end of legislation with the funds of the Union. And, as we see, those 90 million euros that now put the Amancio Ortega Foundation in place didn't even turn to the board to create new squares, because they're necessary, they don't arrive. The Board of Auditors itself spoke of the need to increase 237 squares to the system annually. They don't arrive, because the ratio is the lowest in the state. The second element has already been partly explained, insufficient and exploited personal, both in public and private homes. We will have to give the debate in depth about the situation in private homes, which is even worse. And in a structural situation of insufficient personnel, over effort is clear. It is the Council that has a higher rate of occupational accident and also temporary disability, which they have treated in a commission to minimize, which often has to do with the stress of work on turns or with diseases characteristic of this type of center, such as bacterial infections and musculoskeletal disorders. By the way, there's a study that says that most staff have to take medication to relieve these musculoskeletal pain. And there are residences with 20% of the workforce, those macrocentres, especially in the province of Coruña, to which we referred. The decree of ratios is not fulfilled in every day; that's the question, which has to be fulfilled in every day. But it's just that, in addition, the delay in dependency ratings makes people valued as autonomous who are actually dependent, and in the end, what they do is load jobs without recognition...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u21	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u22	...that the ratio must be dependent. In the end, everything goes on the back of the workers, and I say it in female because it's a majority female staff. Anyway, it's obvious that what you're dragging this is a lack of personnel for the replacement lists. Since I'm no longer given time, I'll leave it for the replica, but I'll say we were expecting a more often explanation of the dramatic situation in these centres of attention to older people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u23	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. The Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block in Wales has the floor to Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u24	Good morning. I also want to begin by sending all our encouragement to the families and to the close of the deceased of the Divine Circle of the Sea, of Portsin, in a new tragedy in our sea. And then, first of all, I would like to greet the representatives of the IGC in social policy that accompany us today from the rostrum, who brought us to the situation that lives in the Council of Social Policy, essentially in the residences of older people, and they asked us to ask the advisor to come here to provide explanations and solutions, whenever this is not happening. After a petition we registered on 5 September, four plenarys later comes the advisor but says it comes on its own will, despite the fact that on 19 September an initiative presented by the BNG in Commission 5a was approved, in which it was unanimously demanded that you come. But it is seen that the word of the People's Party is of little value and that you have less to come when the demand is made by this Parliament, you always have to hide behind what they come from because they want, not because they have an obligation to render accounts in this Parliament. It seems really disturbing to us that it took more than two months to come to this Parliament to explain what the situation of the staff of the residences of their competence, Counsellor. Far from coming to do it, treat it in a collateral way, and he doesn't want to focus on that situation. You come here today to talk about all the issues that can be addressed by older people in our country, most of them low-cost, and you get rid of the background of what the situation of residence is. Some residences that the People's Party has been promising since 2012; which it has promised in the 2012 electoral program and reiterated in the 2014 and 2015 State debate of the nation. They announced in February 2017 the construction of the seven residences with the program As at home. The president of the Union promised him again in the debate on the state of the nation of 2018 and 2019. They included it in the budgets of the Board, sometimes in games, sometimes in other times, sometimes they put it, sometimes they took it off, but they never did. They made a contest of ideas paid by Abanca to see what those residences would look like, but in the end, we're ending in 2019 and there's no residences, there's not a single brick, there's not a single reality. Today it comes to say that these residences will be built by the Amancio Ortega Foundation, which decides to allocate the fringes of all its profits obtained at the basis of labour exploitation to improve public services. Of course, Counsellor, sincerely, the German Government, more than a government that manages public resources, looks like a party commission looking for sponsors to carry out the issues that the Government had to carry out for itself. [[Applause]] Some older residences that we have to tell you -- even though you know it and you did here a whole series of assertions that you know are false -- that there is a clearly insufficient offer in Galicia of squares in them, far below that of the state. The residential squares are about twenty thousand, and the public don't reach eight thousand; i.e., 25% rarely. They haven't created a single public square in these ten years of People's Party Government since 2009. He knows that processing to get to a residence goes far beyond what establishes legislation, six months as time for adjudication, and three months to grant the residence; he knows that they're far above those times. He also knows that there has been a cut in staff of more than 7% when there has been an increase in the workload, that residences are, in many cases, parking loters — and I'm sorry to say so — of the patients, days that they are not removed from bed because of lack of staff, that there are no activities for lack of staff, that no rehabilitation is done for lack of staff. There are incomes in residences of older people who should not be in them, by social emergencies, by legal order, of people with mental problems, with mental health problems, who should not be in these residences, and you, instead of creating places to care for these people, mix them up, which is a problem for the attention of these people and it is a problem for the staff, who does not have the training needed to care for these kinds of patients. In short, Counselor, you come, as always, to make the story of a parallel reality, not of the reality that residents and professionals live, and I'm going to tell you another reality different from what you described here. I'm going to tell you the reality of the workers in your office who don't count because they wrote it to you on a paper -- as they did to you what they told you here -- but because they live it every day and they know what they're talking about. The reality that workers describe and workers who describe the Board of Auditors denies, one by one, the issues that you have come to say here. They say there's a huge burden of work, because there's a lack of rest there's a number of accidents and very high diseases. In the first half of this year of 2019, 174 occupational accidents in the Galician Union, 97 in its council, in the Council of Social Policy, a higher sinisterity — I told you once again — than in forest agents. I suppose you know why this is happening. This is done by the enormous workloads, by a very feminized staff board, with very high ages, well over the age of 50 in a very important part, and with a very high workload. So, of these 97 occupational accidents in Social Policy, a very important part are due to musculoskeletal problems due to overexortion. I want to ask you a question, Counsellor, why does Article 19 of the Fifth Convention remain suspended? Why is it suspended in the 2013 Accompanying Act and the 2020 Accompaniment Act still pending that article? This article makes it impossible for workers and workers to rest their own by working on Sundays and holidays, allowing them to be robbed of additional time compensation for weekends and holidays worked. I'd like you to answer, and to reply to the workers and workers who are in the gallery, why does this article remain suspended, which you theoretically suspended for economic problems from the crisis, but if the crisis is already history, why are they still mistreating their staff keeping this article 19 suspended? There are verifiable health problems, I just gave you a report, and the suspension of this article means the elimination of permits, the non-contracting; you do not hire staff to supply staff absences. People want time. If they work at the breakfast, with little time, little personal and taking care of people who are increasingly demanding more assistance, they need rest time, and you're denying them that rest time, that necessary and recognized time in that V Convention suspended by you. They used to work half of the holidays, they can all work now. Before, if they worked one weekend, they would rest next, now they can work next weekend. Eliminating the right to eat in the dining rooms, you eliminated it. The right to three months' gratification at the time of retirement, you eliminated it. The right to conciliation, which is on paper but you deny it because it always goes with the "if the service needs allow it", and since the service needs do not allow it, you deny that adaptation of schedules because it is not possible and you are forced to request a reduction in days. Today's reduction, Counsellor's Lady -- basically women are the ones who ask for that adaptation of the service or the reduction of the day's service -- means less pay and less contribution, with which, also less retirement. They condemn women to have a much more precarious job situation. The maintenance of the suspension of Article 19 of the Fifth Convention means, Counsellor, that they are stealing rights from workers and workers, that they do not make these job adaptations, and when they do them, as they do not hire staff to replace them, it falls on the rest of the professionals who are performing their jobs. The workers and the workers say it because they're there in real time, and the Board of Auditors, Counsellor, says in the review report, states that the number of hours you steal from the workers and the workers is over 10,000, which would mean the full-time recruitment of a very important number of nursing staff and nursing assistants. I would like you here, in your reply, to answer us, and to answer to the workers, why you keep this situation, because the ratios are insufficient.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u25	Finish it, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u26	Finished, Madam President. For example, poor man's residence, valid residence, one Sunday there's only assistant staff, no nursing staff, no ordinance, no administrative staff, which only works from Monday to Friday. At the end of the week there's only the staff of maid-cleaners and an assistant. It's also in Carballo. And there are people qualified as valid who, when they get into residences, have already worsened their situation, with which, they don't count as dependents, and it turns out that the ratios are far below what they need. I'd like you to make an explanation and never repeat the number of false truths you said in your first intervention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. On the part of the Joint Left Group, Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u28	Good morning. Before I started, I wanted to remind myself of Sergas' possible companions, who today are focusing on hospitals and public health centers just to denounce the precariousness to which the recruitment model condemns them; a model of recruitment that is precarious in Sergas and, of course, also in the Social Policy Council, despite the speech we hear today. And we didn't expect another story, but the truth is, as much as they repeat it, it doesn't stop being false. They describe a reality that does not correspond, at all, to what people are living with who have to receive care, neither families, nor, of course, workers. They never talk about people who leave unattended, nor do they talk about how they care and how they often care. They talk about numbers, but behind the numbers there are many people with enormous difficulties. Their model, since they rule, is to unburden themselves of the responsibility of care, and care is a fundamental right. They shift responsibility, on the one hand, in families, obviously in women, because we care mostly, and in private initiative; and not in any private initiative, but in large multinationals. When it was the construction crisis, it was publicly said that there was a new niche in the market, and that new niche in the market was more wonderful than care! That is the fundamental problem, that care is not guaranteed as a right, but they are used to do big multinational business, and to rule us as the Government of the People's Party are allowing these big businesses to do business. Speaking of the situation of people who promote these care, in our opinion, as much as they say otherwise, it's very alarming. It's very alarming that women promote informal care. If we talk about what they do in the family sphere, the total absorption of life is reality, because the vast majority devote it to it between thirty and sixty-nine hours a week; but it's about 30% of the women who care more than seventy hours, more than seventy hours! And seventy hours a week you can imagine what it is, it's the full day. These hours they have to devote, these hours where care is needed, practically all the day except the hours of sleep, they clash in front of the aids, which in our opinion are often ridiculous by the Administration. And the truth is, if you come here bragging about the home help service, I think it's amazing! Of course, home help is fundamental, and we believe that people who want to be cared for in the home, and people who want to care for in the home, have to be able to do it. But today, most of the time, home help is an hour a day, fortunately three hours a day, and this contrasts directly with the seventy hours of care that are necessary. And, above all, because when you're interested, it's something the Galician Union does, and when you don't, it's the city hall's responsibility. The help at home we know that it also depends directly on the municipalities, but the board has a ridiculous count, a ridiculous budget, and as much as it comes here saying that the budget goes up, it's a ridiculous budget. And the conditions of the workers who exercise these care, don't you worry? You can look. Most workers have to pay for house-to-house shifts in a territory like Galicia, where often that shift is not five minutes. There are workers who work to survive, who already earn poverty, wages are themselves very low, and yet above all they have to take care of the displacement by bus, by car, or in any way, between hours. And so they spend the day, working 12 hours, 13 hours, not on an accounting workday, no, they only tell you the hours of direct attention, something ridiculous, because obviously, the time that they have to spend between one house and another is also work. The same thing happens in the residences, which they've been saying to him often as well. He didn't want to talk about anything here about the situation, and they come here to talk about what professionals deserve thanks. Of course they deserve all thanks, because they're getting up and taking care of themselves over their possibilities. But what they deserve is decent working conditions, which is what they don't have right now. And we don't say that, say it, the union organizations, that are making complaints to him systematically, both in private centers and in the centers that depend on their own advice. And that's also what the Board of Auditors itself says. The Board of Auditors issued a report, which was very clear, about the model of privatization and the cuts they've been applying since they govern; a model that for the only thing it serves is to do business, which is bad for the set of Welsh and Welsh and, besides, it doesn't come profitable, because often they come here saying that the public is not profitable. Together pays 8% more for private squares than for the public. It's not profitable! What's the reason we're spending public money giving them to big businesses? The only reason is to do business with people who are friends with you or who often have direct ties. What's good is that they're 100 percent public squares and 100 percent public residences. And 100 percent of the public isn't talking about ownership, it's talking about ownership, and it's talking about management. Because you always use demagogy to say, no, they're public squares and resources are public. And what is management? What is the management of residences in our country? Mostly private, that's the big problem. And private residences are more expensive, although they have less a personal ratio and they have lower wages for workers, that is, that accounts are very simple. Whenever we say his model is privatising, they say why we say these things. It is that, from all over the territory of the Spanish State, we are the territory with more percentage of private squares, which is more. And as I said, the staff situation is no better in the residences that directly manage the Union. They refuse to talk about it, but the Board of Auditors also told them. The way they had to save money in public homes was not replacing casualties and vacations. That's there and it's in writing, and they didn't do any kind of self-criticism or give any kind of explanation. And we demand them again, as long as they maintain the suspension of Article 19 of the Single Convention? Because to come here to talk about all the rights that are given to the workers and workers when what they did was justly take them away, and they haven't returned them yet...! They're returning alms, they're not returning all the rights they have recognized in the labor agreement. So the truth is, we find it quite insulting. They don't even let them eat in the dining room, they have endless days. You come here to talk about breaks, when just suspending this article has caused you to remove breaks; you are being asked to rest. For the Junta of Galicia it is the same Saturday as a Sunday, that a Monday, that a day of holidays, exactly the same; but for the workers and the workers, obviously not. This has consequences, and overcomes the consequences — as it has already been said — of the high occupational sinality in his counseling. He also came here, in the last commission, trying to turn the data around, but the data doesn't give rise to any doubt: they're the counsellor with the maximum labor sinequality, and the casualties and diseases on many occasions have to do with the overload of the staff. And the overload has to do with the ratios, as much as every time they come here to talk about the ratios the truth -- in our opinion -- insults the workers, because all they say is that the ratios are variable. The workers know perfectly well that the ratios are variable, but why don't you talk about the dismantling they made of mental health care? They're getting into homes of older people with mental health problems without doing anything at all to get them to live together, without more staff, without specialized staff... absolutely nothing. Just put us in there with the same staff, with no support whatsoever. They don't talk about ratios putting direct care staff in the same bag many times with kitchen staff, management staff, security personnel. The ratios are often false, and in the ratios you don't often have to see a Monday or a Tuesday, in the morning or in the afternoon, on a Sunday or on a holiday day. They control their ratios as well in August, they don't control them only on a Tuesday morning shift. You know perfectly well that the workers are overcharged, if you don't know, you don't hear them when you're going to talk to them. If you listen to them, you'll know they're tired of their over-exploitation and they can't. Not to say they systematically violate the right of reconciliation of their workers, systematically. Here are seven new residences and squares when we're very far from achieving the WHO recommended ratio. We have endless waiting lists. There's a lot of people who die waiting for dependency aid. There are many people who die waiting for a public square in a residence. And there are many others who have a public square hundreds of miles from their home. So much for families, worry that families don't have to make 300 kilometers to visit a family. And we ask him again because he never answers us, because he says it's going to be a hundred percent public: what's going to be the management of these seven residences? Management. We don't want him telling us again that the title will be public. What is management? Are you publicly committed to the fact that management will be directly public, with workers and public workers in the Galician Union? Care is a right, Counselor — a right! — and here in this country they are not guaranteed. They're carrying on families, and often it's an insatiable thing for them with the pensions and wages we have in our country; totally insatiable. And they're constantly deriving from the private company. Finally, before we finish, and even though it's not the subject of this appearance, we want to point out — as you have been told — that there is a request to speak about the situation of the poisonings suffered these weeks. We want five minutes to talk about how these investigations started, whether they intend to open a sanctioning process and what they will do to prevent it from repeating itself, because this Parliament understands that it cannot stay away from the interests of most of the Greek society. Clearly, this is a concern for many families in our country, and since you're here, we want to take advantage of it to ask you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u30	Thank you very much, President. First of all, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we want to extend our condolences to the family, friends and friends of this sailor who died today in Porto. We send our condolences from here, therefore, a warm greeting and an open background as well. [[Applause]] Counsellor, good morning. You're here today not because you want to, you're here today because three opposition groups have requested your presence. A request, in turn, made by the representatives of the IGC, to whom I would like to greet today too. Comes here late today, bad and the trail. It's been over two months since we asked for that show, and it turns out that when he comes he doesn't even know what we're asking him for. You didn't just talk about the situation in which the public residences are located or where your staff are. He came here to cover the incompetence of a Government; he came here to cover the cuts that have been made to all these workers and workers; to consolidate that insufficient budget — as we have repeated on numerous occasions — for the attention of our elders; and he comes here, once again, to support, to say and affirm that these workers of social services — in this case, of direct care centers —, according to his intention — that, if he has clearly seen today, they will continue to be — as we have already called them, unfortunately — the Delivering of the Autonomic Administration. I think the thanks to the staff are fine, but what's much better is respect for their rights and working conditions. Before thanking you, what you should do is that, because there are numerous complaints for over effort, for stress and for lack of rest in all the centers of direct attention, and they are increasing alarmingly. Your advice -- you've said here -- also concentrates the highest rate of accidentability, something you'll have to say about, and it's partly because of that overload of work. Official ratios do not take into account the peculiarities of all senior residences, which after this long processing, of this long waiting place in residence, these people arrive in worse conditions, with less mobility, and are not collected in those ratios. We have all the legislation that denounces the lack of public resources and the loss of quality of public resources; while you fatten the private sector, you leave the public sector at home. Look, it's a real periple, it's a hate, it's getting to a home of older people. First, processing dependency aids, more than a year to value. The other day, I was told by a lady in Ourense, an application dated October 2, 2018. A year later, that person is not even valued, with which he goes to the services and asks if there's been a problem or if he's been transpaped. The answer is that the rating is between year and half and two years. Why, despite being one of the autonomous communities with the highest aging rate in all Spain and Europe, do not increase staff to speed up assessments and average processing time to get squares in larger residences? I told him the Board of Auditors' own report that it's six months, one hundred and eighty days maximum, according to current legislation, and we're at double, in 453 days. A real calvary for these people and their families, and in many cases — we have repeated it here too — these people die before taking this attention. Moreover, there are cases of people asking for social emergency aid with their biggest admissions to healthcare homes, hospital complexes, and who access these unnecessarily social emergencies, as hard as it has to be for a child or a daughter to have to go to such a resource. You came here to talk about the number of residential squares. In 2009, Mr. Feijóo's electoral program: "Each district will have at least one senior residence." Year 2012 – also in its electoral programme –: "Four thousand new squares up to 2020". Year 2016, construction in large areas, seven cities, seven residences. The truth is, today there are zero major public squares since you rule; zero squares managed directly by the Autonomic Administration, Counsellor. I urge you to stop lying, to go up to this gallery and tell where the squares are managed directly by the autonomous administration, because they don't exist! [[Applause]] They are not detected by the Board of Auditors itself. [[Applause]] Please stop lying! [[Applause]] Some residences that won't even match the current demand.'They're a total of 900 squares for an aging that runs like a hare, which won't cover any fourth of the needs of the future. [[Applause]] And when you finally get this place in residence, it turns out that these people get a low-quality benefit, because their rake in human and material resources is paying us our biggest, in addition to their own staff. Although the number of squares managed by the Autonomic Administration remains constant, 7.1% less is invested in staff, neither vacations nor legally established ratios are covered in many cases. The report of the Board of Auditors itself sets out one case: the Residential Centre of Vigo and Oleiros add up to 52% of the total — that is enough — of the number of squares held by the Autonomic Administration. He told the Board of Auditors that half of the permits and nursing assistants' vacations are not covered, which is causing work overload. The 10,022 days by vacation and unreplaced IT permits in ten residences are approximately the work of 7 nurses and 40 nursing assistants for a year. What do you have to say to this? Besides, you come here today to say how a great achievement that rights are met in half; actually, if you do in half, you don't do it. This year, in the Tax and Administrative Measures Bill, one more year remains without maintaining those compensatory breaks, it has been incorporated since 13 the suspension of Article 19 of the Convention. Accordingly, the year 2020 will not be compensated in any way for any work on Sundays or on holidays. What about our private centers? Well, in private centers, despite the average pay, according to Imserso, 1,500 euros a month, there's a tremendous increase in private squares, there's not increased those inspectors you came here to say. Private centers are, for their complicity, bell out their broads in this autonomous community. The Council's own report notes that there have been cases where irregularities have been detected and, after notification of these deficiencies and that they have not been corrected, you have not imposed any sanctions. Moreover, we asked for that data — we asked for them a month ago and a minute ago — the data on files, broken down by type of center: private center, public center, concerted squares, and it turns out that we found ourselves with a quite honest answer. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we could see in the media — in a particular medium of communication — a fully detailed narrative of which is the number of files, which we find to be absolutely embarrassing, Counsellor. We are ashamed that he is once again stealing the right of this parliamentary group to oppose and steal the right that we have to receive from the German Government information to the groups that we are in the opposition. Well, in that media, it's said that, out of 376 centers in total, adding them all up, 32 files have been made. And I ask you, can you say here that in 92% of residences — whether public or private, or concerted — there are no deficiencies? Because what the reports say is that, 92%. As for the home help service, which you commented -- I can't get into all the themes often for lack of time -- of course!, you come here assuming when it turns out that between 30% and 40% of the cost of this service is assuming it in a shared way the municipalities and users themselves. That's not to mention the high precariousness of work in this service. Look, Counselor, I'll leave my second turn of action to move you, as we've been doing throughout the legislation, concrete proposals. But you can't come here saying there's a lot left to do, because you always say it! After more than thirty years of the People's Party's Government in this autonomous community, of taking ten years uninterruptedly ruling in Galicia, this is not a statement of good intentions, this is a statement of a genuine failure, it's a statement that you're recognizing that you haven't done enough. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. First of all, a clarification. The opposition spokespersons say that the advisor comes here today bound by the opposition and that he didn't want to come in, when they know perfectly well that they're not telling the truth. They know perfectly well that, from the very first moment, the counselor said she wanted to come in to explain the employment situation of the people who work in the residences. You also know that October 22 was the last plenary, that we didn't even stop to eat, and that the agenda didn't allow -- it's also the Speaker's Board that elaborates it -- to include another audience. By the way, you included even the amendment of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, it must be that they felt it was more important to amend the regulation than the adviser had explained the situation of residences and the services of the elderly. And now they come here trying to accuse the counselor of not wanting to come in, when from the very first moment he was willing to come in. [[Applause]] And not only that, but he came to the Committee on Budgets last October 28 to talk about the social policy assumptions by 2020, and in that appearance the advisor explained and answered each and every one of his questions, which they have repeated here today. An appearance where you explained that the budgets of your advisor's office amounted to 776 million euros, which seems to be that today the opposition seems ridiculous to you, but we think that to build residences, to care for older people and to pay the staff of the Galician Union will have to have budgets. It seems not to you, I'm a secondary matter. These 2020 budgets increase by 6% compared to this year, but by 65% compared to 2009. Budgets that represent the largest investment in social policies in Galician history. And in view of this evidence, how do we find ourselves? Well, with an opposition that's still obsessed with painting a Galicia in black. An opposition that remains obsessed with saying that the budgets of the Galician Union are ridiculous and that it also fails to treat older people as having to care for in our community. I would like to make it clear today that there are more resources than ever to meet our biggest, specifically EUR 450.6 million by 2020, which means 63% more than it was intended to care for older people in 2009. If you think this figure is ridiculous, I'd like you to answer that you looked like the figure in 2009, when you were in government, because they meant 174 million euros less. They criticise the squares of residences. Well, today we have 242 percent more in public squares in day centers than in 2009 and 42% more in residences than in 2009, but it seems that you didn't care so much about residential squares before. Today we have more dependent people cared for. The ratio of care in Galicia is 88.6%, exceeds 7.6 points to a national average. There are more people in Galicia -- 61,403 people in Galicia -- there are more professional services, not low-cost services, as you say. Specifically 83.15 % of the services provided to dependent persons are professional services, 13 points above the national average. They're raising the billboards in 75% to 19,000 people, and every day we have more homes than the largest, 150 squares. Increases the home help service, but you insist on criticizing the home help service. Older people in Galicia claim it's the home help service because it's the service best valued by them, and most of them prefer to stay in their homes and be cared for through this home help service. But you insist, they insist that home help isn't a good service for older people. And, of course, we've come to the question of claiming more residence squares. We also believe that more residential places are needed in Galicia. And when the Galician Junta gets that the Amancio Ortega Foundation assumes 100 percent of the construction and equipment of these seven public residences, with an investment of 90 million euros and 900 squares, 90 million euros that the Galician Junta doesn't have to pay, that the Greeks and the Greeks don't have to pay because the Ortega Amancio Foundation is responsible, what does the opposition do? The opposition is to criticize every day the construction of these seven great public residences in our community. Why? Explain why. Tell the Greeks why they don't want those seven public residences. Because, on the one hand, you criticize the need for more residences, but on the other hand, when the Galician Union can save those 90 million euros because it is the foundation that makes those residences, you are dedicated to criticizing them, to criticizing them! It must be that while for the Greeks it is good news, for the opposition it is bad news, it is bad news! [[Applause]] And they follow with their mantras, with the mantras that Junta does with social services is doing business with friendly companies, who want to fatten the private sector, always with the same mantras. And it turns out that when the People's Party comes to Galician Union it was found that the former Government had privatized the management of the lunch program at home. It was found that the transport service and the dining room service of all the day centres they opened was privatized. [[Murmurs.]] Found that they privatized Chantada's residence. [[Murmurs.]] And it was found that they privatized the home aid service and the dining service on wheels of each and every one of the cities in which you ruled. [[Murmurs.]] So, really, we asked ourselves, what were you guys doing? [[Murmurs.]] To fatten the private sector. What were you guys doing? Do business with your friends. Look, what it does to the Galician Union is to care for the older people; those who want to stay in their home with the home help service, and those who need a place of residence too, through the residence squares and the seven new residences that the majors will have in Galicia, seven new residences! [[Applause]] And one fact, out of curiosity of the Members who want to know: 97%, in particular, of the public squares in junior schools, are managed directly by the Autonomous Administration; 100 percent of the municipally competent infant schools of the City Council of Santiago, privatized; 100 percent of the municipally competent infant schools of the Town Council of Coruña, privatized; 100 percent of the municipally competent infant schools of the Vigo Council are privatized. But, of course, your privatization is a smart privatization, and that of the Galician board, indirect management, which the law you made contemplate, seems to them not to like. You've just made some very serious accusations at the Galician Council. She's accused of working exploitation, of stealing from the workers and that the advisor has just given false ratios and data. Since 2005, the year that 150 new jobs were created, changes and adaptations to jobs have been carried out in all RPTs. No cut has been made, as you say, no! The workload is adjusted to the number of workers in each category and always respecting the specific functions each category has assigned. Staff ratios are scrupulously respected. The relevant data to be taken into account is the evolution of the number of workplace accidents in the Council between 2019 and 2018, which has been reduced by 24%, from 121 work accidents down to 27 work accidents down. In relation to the maximum annual day, which is set at 1,665 hours, the Council's shift workers make an average of 1,590 hours. With respect to the replacements of staff, not only are medically low or holiday rates being filled, but also the absences derived from all the permissions considered by the current permission resolution. Even on most occasions if they're replacing their own affairs. And as the Galician Union increases its budget in social policy, while the Galician Union continues to care for older people, the opposition continues to insist on painting a Galician black and continues to repeat its mantras. Of course, you're still like this, because it seems like you're exhausted and have no plans. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Replica, Social Policy Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u34	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Verao, the Galego Social Welfare Consortium has forced to change all the food providers of the children's schools to the company Freire Chico. Meanwhile, Health Council technicians continue and advance in this very important research. This preventive measure was implanted in schools where there was a child who had this mild reaction, but also in those childhood schools where no case was recorded. Now, all products purchased in schools' proximity establishments must also have all the necessary permissions and accreditations. That's why, from the Galician Junta, we've brought peace to the families, given the slightness of all the allergic reactions that have been recorded, but, in any case, that something like this happens is totally intolerable, so all the necessary measures will continue to be taken so that this will not happen again. [[Applause]] Mrs. Verao, you're always very strict in your criticism, so I'm surprised at something you said in your intervention. He complained about the lack of inspections during the summer months. The truth is, between July and August of this year there was not one or two inspections, but 219; 219 inspections! There were 117 in the area of older people, disability and dependence; 31 in the field of community services and social inclusion; and 71 in the area of family and minors. He also assured us that there was no inspection in the province of Coruña. I honestly don't know where that data comes from, and I would appreciate it if you explained it to me, because there was nothing more or nothing less than 74 inspections in this province during the two central months of summer. You also speak, Mrs Verao and Mrs Prado, of the Fifth Collective Convention. With regard to the demand to eliminate this suspension from Article 19 of the V Single Collective Convention, it is clear that the collective agreement is not unique and exclusive to this council, as you well know, but it affects all employees of the Galician Union, so it is not only up to this council to restore it. You're talking about work implications, Mrs. Verao, Mrs. Quinteiro and Mrs. Blanco. It is true that in a council with more than 6,500 workers there may be more sinisterity than in other councils with fewer troops. In any case, sinisterness has been reduced in the last year by 20% — from 121 cases to 97 cases between June 2018 and 2019 — but I suppose you never want to comment on this. You also speak of the Ortega Amancio Foundation, Mrs Prado. I've already told you on one occasion that I suppose no German will ask the Greek Government to give explanations or apologies because a private foundation finances in exchange for nothing, with 90 million euros, seven public centers of integral attention to the older people who had already planned precisely the Unity of Galicia, and who would save that cost to the Welsh ark. If you tell me that if you were to rule, you would give up or refuse this offer from the Amancio Ortega Foundation, I honestly believe that no German would trust his ability to manage. But one thing is what you say in this Parliament and another is what many of your militants say in the streets, that I also know and appreciate very much, because one thing doesn't pull out the other, and I assure you that they celebrate this collaboration. Mrs. Prado, you know that I'm always delighted to come to this Parliament, but I hemicycle, that I know, there's only one, and in these months there were urgent circumstances that forced the presence of other fellows of mine, as may be the beginning of the school course, the situation of Alcohol or the central bridge or the debate of the state of autonomy. I accept all criticism, but what I do not tolerate is that you lie. I'm not happy to say that residences are parking lots because it's not true. I'm not happy to say that residents are sick because a residence is not a hospital. And I don't tolerate it, nor do I understand that it is called into question that the people who need it most have a social emergency procedure to enter a residence as soon as possible. On the other hand, you also claimed that no public residence has been opened these years. I already explained to them that the number of public squares rose by 44%. It is more, since President Feijóo arrived at the Government, nine new residences of autonomous ownership were opened, with 340 public squares: Vila de Barrio, La Laracha, Cerceda, Melide — which was also enlarged —, Vilardevós, Foz, Baleira, Artexo and Paradela. Don't these municipalities exist for you, Mrs. Prado? Are you going to explain to the neighbors of all these municipalities that they don't have there anymore, to this day, a residence? Mrs. Quinteiro, you're talking about the home help service. It is true, and I am glad that you refer to this service because it is a service of vital importance to all older people who wish to continue living in their homes, to continue living in their homes. I'm also grateful that you remember the important economic amount that the Galician Union places to fund this home help service. But I'm surprised, however, at the adjectives you use to talk about a service that now bets more than ever before, because since 2008 the extension of the home aid service has multiplied by 16 to the more than 24,000 people we care for today. People who - as I told you before - want to live in their home and want to be looked after in their homes. And the arrival of the Galician Union rises to about EUR 80 million in the coming year 2020. This seems to you an insignificant story, Mrs. Quinteiro. And you're also talking about privatization. I ask you at least to report how the home help service is managed in some county next to me, beside Ribeira, where you rule, a section of yourself. Mrs. Blanco, you're talking about the Galician board of inspection. Do you doubt the work of social services inspectors? because I don't. I don't doubt the professionalism of all these professionals. [[Applause]] Your Honor, however, the data presented here show that today the Welsh and the older Greeks have at their disposal a wider attention, closer attention and more effective attention than ever before; a set of resources that we guarantee they can choose, regardless of where they live and their needs, how and where they want to become greater. Our inevitable commitment is that our elders can live this stage of their life with full freedom and with the care they need. But we don't comply, and we're ambitious, so one more year we're raising the budgets of the Social Policy Council -- some budgets that we're targeting older people and people with disabilities. It's 450 million euros, which account for 5.2% more than this year 2019, and 6 out of 10 euros that manage this board are being directed to this area. There is no doubt that nothing is perfect, there is no question that we continue to have much margin of improvement, but it is also undeniable that current social policies are the best in Galicia's history. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2020 accounts will allow us to expand and consolidate all that Galicia has achieved in recent years in caring for our elders. In short, we will be able to reach more dependent people than ever before in the history of Galicia; grant more help for care than ever before in the history of Galicia; provide more care services door-to-door than ever before in the history of Galicia; set up more day-to-day centres in rural areas than ever before in history through the houses of the greatest; and, of course, offer more public places of residence than ever before, with seven new comprehensive centres of attention to the highest quality people, reference centers in Galicia, Spain and pointers also in Europe, and, above all, that will not cost even one euro to the Greeks and to the Greeks. [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u35	Thank you, Counselor. Special round of clarifications. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u36	I want to start by greeting the people who represent the IGC that I will soon not be able to greet, since we have a motion, precisely, to demand an increase in budget in fundamental public services, because, indeed, they have suffered cuts for a decade of what they don't talk about, those first cuts that have been accumulating. We, of course, didn't say I didn't want to show up, what we said was that you didn't fully realize what you were asking for, that lack of staff in the centers, especially during the summer, and the inspections. We do not question, in any case, the work of the inspection professionals, what we say and what we need is more personal, tell him the Board of Auditors itself. As for these inspections in the province of Coruña, if the Council were to transfer to us the disaggregated data that the groups -- understanding that all of us -- could actually ask, we could see, in fact, of these 74, how many were in public residences in the Union, because those in the province of Coruña are the most numerous in terms of people being cared for and those who have the greatest staff problems. You also said that the older ones are the nucleus of the family. In fact, in many cases, during the crisis, they made social mattresses with their pensions. And there's a major impoverishment of people that the Council's own memory of budgets recognizes that they exacerbate, precisely, the costs of private squares when there's no public square available. The situation of older people is aggravated because that cost is inscrutable. We have questions left to move in the first intervention, and one of them is the fact that, in the residential squares system, most of the squares for dependent people are agreed upon. You have taken the concert as the preferred mode for the provision of residential services, and it's not a mantra what we say to the opposition about privatization. Besides it's true they're entering large private capital and investment funds into the business of older people and there's no strong public sector, that's there and it's a threat, it's not the mantra, tell him the Board of Auditors himself. Then also, with regard to the new residences, funded by the Amancio Ortega Foundation, we don't say they renounce them, I would miss them any more! What we're saying is that if 2019, one year after the closure of the legislation, it was only 18.5% of the total plan, theoretically, Feijóo's promise meant that by 2020 everything else would be planned. Where are you going? You don't need to save, you need public squares in residences. If there was that need, every time they're going to save, that they're going to have another source of income to build those residences, why are those 90 million euros -- it's 18.5 18.5% -- they don't invest them in creating new necessary squares or even staff reinforcement, which is a structural deficit? It was also left without comment on the intervention of the opposition spokespersons, during the appearance, that mix of profiles in larger centers with hospitalizations of psychogeriatric patients without specific units, and this is related to the lack of chronic resources in mental health. The Council itself gives us an answer in which it says that certain types of profiles correspond to them in the Galician Health Service, but there is a chronic lack of attention within Sergas to mental health. I also wanted to highlight that idea that seems tremendous to us, the lack of nursing staff and assistants in the replacement lists, because it's revealing absolute precarious work. Obviously, a nurse who has a hundred or one hundred and fifty people in charge at night will prefer to work in Sergas, even though these conditions are as possible of Sergas, as we are seeing with these tremendous mobilizations. And he didn't respond to the complaint made by the IGC about those substitutions that were done without going to the employment offices, which reveal a lack of expectation from the Board. As for the waiting lists, it is obvious that the law is not complied with, which takes a long time to access the service. As for the social emergency income files, we are not questioning the procedure, but sometimes used as a means to obtain a square for the dramatic lack of squares at the disposal, and this causes many displacements to many kilometers, which divide families and cause anxiety in the older people themselves. We have to find the balance of squares all over the territory. You're proposing? I've only got 15 seconds left to make proposals. Update the staff ratios required in senior residences. Increase personal investment. As soon as there is a minimum guarantee of protocols and programs in each municipality, have a thorough X-ray of the municipality and guarantee a minimum of working conditions. Because the ratios are not met if they look for categories and they look for all the days. You can't look globally, you can't make that trap.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u37	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Before we continue the debate, we greet the 6th primary students of the Pérez Viondi Centre, of the Road, as well as their teachers. Welcome to Parliament. And now yes, you have the floor, for the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u38	I am convinced that the IGC representatives of the workers and workers who are in the rostrum should not leave their astonishment, Counselor. When it's over, it would be a good time for you to get closer to talking to them and to them and you would face them, with the data you say, with respect to what they say not only, but they suffer, because they work there. If I had some courage, I'd do it, I'd meet them. Or I'd have a day to meet them and tell them. Just as it would be good for you to have the courage and not to hide behind the fact that Article 19 of the Convention affects more advisors, because you know that, essentially, the person who is affected is the Social Policy. Why? Because Article 19, Counsellor, is the application of the compensation agreement as an additional rest of 75% of the time for the provision of services on Sundays and holidays. You know that the Health Council has a separate agreement that doesn't affect you. After that, it's your advice, and you want to stay here like it's none of your business. It's up to you, what happens is that you have the cowardice not to give back what you're stealing from them, which has been stealing from your workers for years. Robbing! Because it's taking away hours. I told you before, and now I'm going to tell you in detail what the Board of Auditors says, not the BNG: "The 10,022 days for unreplaced EIT vacations and permits" -- only in these ten residences that they were able to audit, because the rest is so complicated and has so much to bear the residences that they were not able to do so -- "they would equal the annual days of 7 ATS and 40 nursing assistants." That's the least. Counsellor, you have responsibilities with staff and residents, and you're not meeting either one or another -- there are waiting lists for evaluation and resource assessment, waiting lists that you don't want to address from a structural point of view and only target patches -- and with the professionals who work for you. We made a request to attend, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, on September 5. Two months later, four full days later, they had time for me to come over and talk about the Xacobeo. To talk about Jacob is more important than talking about the situation of residences and workers and workers in their homes. Look, public-funded squares aren't public squares. You're making every effort to capitalize on private companies and to dismantle and not create a real public network, Counselor. I'm sorry they want to deny reality. The budgets are currently being processed, now you have the opportunity to include Article 19. It is only necessary to accept the amendment to be tabled — at least the BNG — so that Article 19 of the Convention is rescinded. They have it very easily, voting in favour of the amendment BNG will present. Just as it's easy to include in these split budgets to improve the working conditions of your staff. That's why I'm making a series of proposals, Counselor. The first one, which meets with the representatives of the workers and workers. To measure the staff frameworks, so that the rates adapt to both the number and the types of users, and stop compromising the safety and health of workers and the quality of care, because it is the health of workers and workers, but it is also the quality of care that needs to be provided. That it undertakes to include in the budgets of the Union for this year 2020 the budgetary items needed for this purpose: to eliminate the suspension of Article 19. Which will correct your staff policy. Increase the number of staff. Make the weekend and half-day contracts full-day. The coverage of all absences that occur in the centers. That they respect the conciliation rights of the women and men who apply for them, without making them conditional on the needs of the service, because that is not granting them. To rectify the policy of privatization of services and not to support public-funded markets to form a public network of senior residences. Counsellor, honourable Member of the People's Party, of what you have to account for and why they have been offering and committed to creating residences since 2009, in 2012, in 2016, in 2017, in 2018, in 2019, they have not fulfilled their promises, and at the end they have to achieve - you have said textually, Madam - that we don't know how to build them Amancio Ortega. And we'd like you to clarify in your turn, Counselor, as these squares are going to be, whether they're being managed directly from the board of Galicia or whether they're going to be that network supported by public funds. One question, Counsellor, the inspection. What does the Board of Auditors say? That in the inspections carried out in the control proceedings in the residential centres, personal defaults were detected, mainly in the personnel ratio, which is below the establishment. Basically...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u39	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u40	...with regard to trips, holidays and so on, it says it doesn't replace itself; and in cases where the irregularities observed were detected, it says that no corrections were made or sanctioning files initiated. Tell him the Board of Auditors. I'd like you to explain to this, say whether it's true or not what the Board of Auditors says. Since he says it's not true what we say, it's not true what the workers and the workers say, whether it's true or not what the Board of Auditors says, that he doesn't say...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u42	...replaces neither on vacations, nor in any kind of bookkeeping, which does not solve the deficiencies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u43	Thank you, thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u44	...and not to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u45	Thank you, your time is up. Thank you. Joint Left Group, Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u46	I also want to say hello to the IGC workers, who I couldn't do before. The People's Party says we paint a Galician in black. I don't know what it looks like to you and that Galicia seems to you that it's reality today, that many people have to travel hundreds of miles to access a square of a public residence. It seems to you that, according to Imelga, 10 percent of the autopsies performed are people who died alone. Most people who die alone are poor people. There are a lot of older people in our country who are living in infra-vivals, who don't have the minimum resources, who don't have the necessary care, and that concern they say they don't really show. What do you think of the Counsellor and the People's Party Member who today are people who die waiting for their dependency assessment or resources? This same week, a well-known man, after two years taking care of his dependent father - he left his job to take care of him - arrived the letter of reply from the aid - two years later - the day of his death. Two years! And it's not an isolated case, it's not a specific case that this casualty Member knows. It is a case that we could certainly know most of the Members and of the Members who are here, who can tell you all the people who are tired of waiting for years for an assessment of dependence, for a resource that is often insufficient. Tell me about home help. Of course -- I said it in my first intervention -- you have to make sure that anyone who wants to care for at home, and anyone who wants to be careful at home, can do it. But it's ridiculous the situation we're in right now. What do you think? He didn't say anything. More than 30% of the women they care for have to spend more than seventy hours. Facing is home help: one or two hours a day. That's the reality, and it's in your poll at the Galego Institute of Statistics; I'll give it to you later to see it. It's not an isolated reality. Help in the home, which is an essential aid, has to help and has to serve so that women don't have to spend their whole lives caring for. Because taking care of the home often can't; you can't, as much as you want. Or you may have the cost of leaving your job and losing your life, dedicating yourself to 100 percent only to the care of family members. That's the reality. Black is the working landscape in the homes of older people. He's black, no matter what they say. You always say you'll listen to the workers and the workers. Well, I don't know who they're talking to. You can go visit any residence, you can go talk to any worker, and I suppose they'll tell you the same thing as we say, another thing is that you recognize him here. They'll tell him the same thing, because they're telling him right here. I also follow the request made by the spokesperson of the Galician Nationalist Block. At the end, you have a good opportunity to listen to the demands you want to put on the table, for a long time, the workers of the public residences. You also have an opportunity to remove the suspension of Article 19 this time in the budget debate which will take place soon, to see if they do! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We don't expect anything! It's not true they cover the holidays. The Board of Auditors highlighted this situation. It's not just the workers and the workers, says the Board of Auditors; we don't say it either. They do not adapt the ratios to the work done. He didn't say anything about that new reality that he's living because of the lack of attention to people with mental health pathologies; they don't talk about it, he has nothing to say. And he continues in these interventions, he doesn't listen or ever answers the questions we ask him. Either he listens, but he doesn't answer. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't know if you listen, but of course you don't notice in your intervention, in your answers. I insist again on seeing if I'm lucky this time. What is the management of the seven new residences? Management! I know it'll be public ownership. That was very clear. What is management going to be? Are you going to be managed with workers and workers on board or will you be sold to a private company that does business with the care of older people? Yeah, it's business. There are large multinationals. They are not small businesses, there are large multinationals, increasingly concentrated in large lobbyies, who are busy in the care business; who are, in addition, condemning precarious workers who hire. Go talk to the workers of Geriatric residences, see how they are. Six months and the street, and he'll hire you again. Six months and the street, and he'll hire you again. There are residences where workers have to be marked when they enter the room and when they leave the room. For what? To control that they don't exceed one more minute in attention time. Does it seem to you that under these conditions quality care can be given to older people? And he says no, residences aren't parking lots. Of course not! But the problem is that the Galician Union is getting older residences more and more like a assembly chain. That's the problem! And not for workers and workers, of course not, because workers and workers do much more, much more! than they can do. There's been a lot of extra hours. So there's that stress, that work overload! There's a lot of workers going to work with painkillers, that's reality, and you deny it. I don't know what workers are talking to, because residential workers can't anymore, it's the most precarious sectors. And they don't listen to us, they don't listen to the workers, they don't listen to them, they don't listen to them, they don't listen to them, they don't listen to them, they don't listen to them, they don't listen, they don't listen -- as I say -- to all the reports there are, like the Board of Auditors. And we're not talking to them about reports made by us, they're reports they should listen to. They repeat the same speech over and over again, but it doesn't correspond to reality at all. They're not paying attention to people in our country, it's a lie. There are many people who are not being cared for. And above all, care is often being taken in very important conditions of precariousness and exploitation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u47	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u48	Exploitation in private centres, in centers managed by the Union and also in houses. Women must also be prevented from doing all this work during marathon days. And as I'm telling you, in the home aid, workers who earn less than a thousand euros per day who are at best twelve hours a day. Of course, they don't count as twelve hours because in the middle, in the lanes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u49	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u50	...they have to pay for the course and they're not working.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u52	That's the reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u53	Thank you. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u54	You were very willing to come, Counselor, but it took you more than two months to get to this show. Of course, it will certainly be much more important for the cultural adviser to come here to tell pilgrims that the social policy advisor will come to tell us that he is paying attention to our elders. Surely, Counselor. [[Applause]] Look, you say that people ask you in the street, that you did like a kind of survey... I was still asked the other day in Ourense where the new senior residence was. And I said, "No, no, they haven't built it yet. What do you mean, no? But where is he? No, no, he's not yet. There's not a single stone, not one! And they've been selling it for years!Oh, my God! We have no problem, on the contrary, we thank Mr. Amancio Ortega's prayer. What's to think about is why Mr. Ortega has to make a prayer for charity and we don't have a Greek Government that has budgets for solidarity for our elders, Counsellor, that's the problem! [[Applause]] I also want to ask you where the 90 million we're going to save are going. Because if we're going to save them, I understand that you, who are so worried about the attention of older people, are going to reverse those 90 million in another budget game. The People's Party Member said that we are constantly criticizing construction. No, we can't criticize construction because there's not one stone, Mrs. People's Party. There is no construction, so far as it is now, in either of the seven Greek cities. Counsellor, I'm going to repeat it as I've been doing for the last few years: there's not one single management site in Galicia since Mr. Feijóo has been running for the last ten years, not one! The residences you have actually appointed are of public ownership, but they have no public management. So at least come here and recognize it. It's true that when you talked now about coverage of sick leave and leave, there was a big buzz in the guest gallery. I imagine they're equally hallucinated and hallucinated that we're opposition groups. Of course, Counsellor!, say the report of the Board of Auditors, tell it the trade union organizations, tell it to the workers of its council, say it to the opposition groups... are we all wrong, Counselor, or are you again, lying to all the Greeks and Greeks? Look, you said that since the PSdeg, we haven't created the professionalism of the Inspectorate. No, that's not true. We don't believe it's their professionalism, not that of the inspectorate's workers. Neither in his own nor in the former social policy advisors, nor in the last head of the government, which is Mr. Feijóo. Besides, you came here today to say that article 19 with you as it doesn't go much, does it? Come and throw balloons out and send him to the Public Service. I don't know if we have two governments. I understand that we have a government in which all its members respond in solidarity, and you are responsible for that staff and, in any case, responsible for telling Mr. Feijóo that once and for all that suspension of rights that has been in force since 2013. Look, the problem, it's not just that there's accidentalness, it's not that problem. The problem is the reasons why there is accidentability: that you continue without going to the causes and continue without making detailed reports. They have ISSGA, with great techniques and risk prevention techniques, they have them! But, above all and fundamentally, they cover once and for all the staff's casualties and vacations! That's our first proposal. I told him I was going to take this second turn last minute to make proposals. Eliminate that suspension from Article 19 of the Fifth Convention, which does go with you. He goes with you and with all the members of the German Government, and of course also with the group that supports him. It ensures that all permits, holidays and other absences of workers are fully covered, keeping the ratio collected in the applicable legislation. And yes, it reinforces the work of the inspector, increases the human resources to monitor those violations of the regulations or quality standards. He gets sanctions when you have to put them in, because, of course, in the data I moved in my first intervention, the number of sanctions with the state where the senior residences are found doesn't fit into reality. Keeps up to date the data from the Single Log of Social Services providers, who are not. He was told by the Board of Auditors himself in the report published last year. But, above all, it has sufficient staff and the means needed for the recognition — which is the first step — of the right to residential service to take place within the six months which contemplates the vigorating legislation itself, and reduces waiting times — once the residence is assisted — to three months. Anyway, Counselor, you've repeated again now: there's a lot of room for improvement. We sincerely believe that this — again to repeat it again — is not a statement of intent after thirty years of the People's Party's Government and ten uninterrupted years of Mr. Feijóo, but that you are recognizing here, even if you do not want, that they have not done, nor will they do what remains of legislation, what our older people — as you said, and very well — need and deserve. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Blanco, you, who is appropriate to the rigour in this Parliamentary House, you who assured Parliament that the Socialist Party would fund 50% of the dependency law, you who assured this House that the Socialist Party would pay the 200 million euros that Galicia owed to care for dependent people, now that it has not been done, what are you going to do? You who in parliamentary headquarters falsely accused senior officials of the board, what are you going to do now? Will you apologize, will you resign? No, you're a professional defamator in this Parliament who comes to make false accusations about the high offices of the Galician Union, making sure they're doing a role they don't belong to. [[Applause]] Look, now it seems that you change your mind and you don't criticize the seven residences in big cities. It's not true, they've been criticising the Foundation for the construction of these seven residences from the very first moment. Mrs. Blanco did. You said, in the debate of the Committee on Budgets — there is an act, you can read it — that what we didn't want was the private charity of Amancio Ortega. Mr. Villares also said he didn't want those prayers, that what he wanted was more collection. Mrs. Pontón accused the Galician Council that social policy depended on this gentleman's check. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And Mr. Sánchez also criticized the outsourcing of social policies. Today the BNG comes to teach us lessons. Well, come and teach Galician board a lesson. Because, of course! while the Galician Union allocates 776 million euros, the BNG seems little to you. But what BNG doesn't know is that the municipalities where they rule there lead the ranking of officially poor municipalities in social services. Councils such as Pontevedra, such as Cangas or Carballo are the less targeted municipalities in Spain for social services. You do have to give lessons on how to manage social services, Mrs. Prado! [[Murmurs.]] They can teach lessons! [[Applause]] And of course, it comes with the mantra of that real public network of social services. The real, the real, what we do, and not what you do! See, EUR 276.3 million in 2009 for the largest, EUR 450.6 million now. Sure, laugh! What a laugh, right? When you privatized the dinner program in the house! Right, Mrs. Prado? He doesn't want me to talk. What a laugh, Mrs. Prado, when you privatized the transport service and the dining room of all, everyone, the day centers you opened! [[Murmurs.]] What a laugh, isn't it, Mrs. Prado? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u57	Mrs. Prado, be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u58	What a laugh, when you privatized Chantada's residence, right, Mrs. Prado? And he laughs when you privatize the home help service and dinner on wheels of all. What a laugh, isn't it, Mrs. Prado? But of course, now they want a real public network of social services! [[Applause]] And of course!, we also have to follow the indications and recipes of the Power Tides, because their recipes are the ones that have to apply the Galician Union. While Galician Union executes 99% of its budget, what are the Tides of We Can do? Well, lead the ranking of the Town Councils that don't meet. In the Town Hall of Santiago, 77% of the unexecuted budget. In the Town Hall, 71% of the unexecuted budget. In the Ferrol Town Hall, 69% are not executed. But, of course, here they come to teach Galician board how to manage those 776 million euros dedicated to social policy. There are other municipalities that also have to teach us lessons, and which appear in that ranking of precarious municipalities. But, of course, how can you not talk about certain municipalities... Here, what we want to talk about is that every day there are more public residences, more public squares in day centers, more home help service, more homes of the greatest, more budgets for social policies, more budgets to care for older people, and every day we have an opposition that deserves less support from the people of Greece. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Close the courtroom, social policy advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u60	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in your speeches I observe something that concerns me, and I think you also care about and outrage the people who use our residences, the older dependents. Ladies and gentlemen, a place of attention for the greatest people subject to public prices, lists and criteria of public access and with public quality criteria, is a public square, put themselves as they stand [[Applause]] And I also greet, by the way, the union representatives who are here today in this Chamber. They don't have the slightest doubt that we'll always keep talking, as we've been doing so far, through the channels to continue improving the conditions of our workers. Mrs Prado, you speak a lot here, but now that you have a representative, a Member, in Madrid — and I take this opportunity to congratulate you today — you have a golden opportunity to claim how important it is for Galicia that the Central Government pays the 200 million euros that save us every year... that it spares us every year! to improve the attention of our older people. [[Applause]] I am convinced, Mrs. Prado, Mrs. Blanco, that with these 200 million euros more, fulfilling the Dependency Act, we can continue to improve services and care of the highest quality to older people. [[Applause]] Mrs. Quinteiro, I still care about your claims, because this time you said it was a chain of assembly a residence. Are you sure you've ever visited a public residence of attention to older people? Because I'm constantly visiting public residences, I'm constantly on the ground, the truth is that I visit a lot of residences and I see that there are many things that can be improved, so we continue to improve every day, but I also see in all these residences excellent public workers, close to, professional workers, who care, who care for and care for all older people, so we will always continue to thank them for this work and we will always continue to improve, as far as possible, the working conditions that all public workers have. [[Applause]] You also talk about caring people. It's true that here in Galicia there are many caregivers, this goes also to our origins and habits, and to all those working people I want to thank you for your efforts to keep on caring, pampering and caring for so many older people. That's why the Galician Union will always be next to all the caring people in Galicia. We've already increased by 10% to today's family care, and we'll always continue to give them all our support, with greater services, so that their lives are simpler every day and make this work easier. You also talk about home help workers. There are many councils in which the home aid service is managed by private companies, these workers are hired by private companies, and who bid these contracts is the same council, it is not the Galician board, and for the Galician board to pay more, which pays the dying central government, the Socialist Party, the 200 million euros billion euros! [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I really want to thank you all for your approach today. We must never be afraid of criticism, because I believe that only through them can we continue to improve and, above all, identify all those areas where we can continue to improve and offer greater quality in services to all dependent people in Galicia. We will all agree that the characteristics that define us to the Greeks and to the Greeks are that we are a society that is very respectful of our elders, so we are all very proud. For our elders, because they brought us here and they owe us everything we are. That's why this government will always be next to the older people, because we are convinced that they have and must always have a fundamental role in the construction of Galicia that we all want. This also means counting on the best facilities to guarantee the comfort of older people; to count on the best services to guarantee quality in their care; but, no doubt, the fundamental thing is to have the best teams of professionals, qualified and with vocation, such as those who have the centres that depend on the Social Policy Council. All that has been done in these last ten years is the best way to ensure that the Galician Union will abide by and will continue to do so forever. Not only are we investing more in our elders, but we're investing better, because they're the ones who mark us as and where they want to be cared for. And from there comes our bet on home care through the home help service, because they are the ones who tell us that they want to keep living in their own homes; to bring more and more innovative programs to the Italian countryside, so that they don't have to move away from their parishes and their villages and have the care they need there. Also by opening new resources at the door of their causes, such as the homes of the eldest, in those municipalities that up to today had no recourse to the older neighbours. As well as increasing the benefits to the biggest dependents, so that they receive the best care in their homes. But for all those Greeks and Greeks who prefer a residential option, we have increased from 2009 to more than 42% the public supply; we have multiplied by three squares in day centers, up to the three thousand three hundred; and the next challenge is to reach the families nine hundred new public places of highest quality full-quality care for older people with the construction and entry into service of seven new integral centers, which will be the envy of the rest of the communities and the rest of the European countries. [[Applause]] An investment of 90 million euros that will be saved to the Greeks and the Greeks, thanks to the involvement and commitment of the Amancio Ortega Foundation. But, however, the Galician Union will continue to bet on older people to always offer them more services and of the highest quality. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u61	Thank you, Counselor. We move on to point 3 of the agenda, motions. What happened? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Who asked for the word? Mrs. Blanco, why? Excuse me?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u62	Under Article 76, by the statements made by the honourable Member of the People's Party, which I believe undermine my position as a Member and my dignity. I think I didn't do any kind of personal demonstration when I got on the stage, and I'm asking you to remove that expression from "professional defamatory."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u63	Thank you, ma'am... Let's see, I was in the debate. No matter what... but, no, but let me think! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I was in the debate, and I understand that this was circumscribed to a... No, no matter how later Mrs. Rodríguez Arias can take that away — which I'm going to ask for — I think... why not? Let me talk to you! [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please, I'm still talking. [[Murmurs.]] That can be limited — which is what she meant — to which we might have to be careful about what we say here, because if you're talking about people who have been confronted with certain situations that were later archived by justice. I think that's what she meant. In this case, yes, in particular. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That is not an oblivious thing for Mrs Rodríguez Arias — and that I will ask her — to withdraw that; but I think the debate was there. That's how I understood it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Rodríguez Arias? [[Mrs. Rodríguez Arias speaks words that are not perceived.]] Yes, it was that way. I still know how to understand things. I know perfectly well how to understand things. That's where that was. [[Murmurs.]] Now that Mrs. Rodríguez Arias nuances it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u64	Yes, Mr. President. For the sake of Parliament, I withdraw that expression. But for Parliament's sake, the Socialist Member should also apologize for falsely accusing these high offices of the Union...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u65	Thank you. That's it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u66	...when he called them mobsters. We're still waiting...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u67	Thank you. That expression is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u68	...for the sake of Parliament's apology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u69	Perfect. [[Murmurs.]] Motions. Like I said before. G.P. motion. Joint, at the initiative of Da Paula Vázquez Verao, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to budgetary expenditure in fundamental public services and the demands to be made by the Central Government in this regard
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u70	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u71	In fact, we will continue to talk about the same question: the need to have enough budget for essential public services, because we defend that we do not have because we are condemned to the dogma of austerity. The cut in public budgets, which was applied with motive — or, better said, with excuse — of the 2008 crisis is just one of the possible exits, and it was the exit that cut us to popular classes and allowed the increase in wealth of those who had the most. This is evident in the distribution of income and the analysis of how the relationship between the economic power of the working people and the economic power of the capital became. And this has also led — linking it to the debate we just had — to a greater precariousness of public service personnel and, consequently, to a deterioration of people's attention. In our country, the cut-off of public investment, applied in addition to — let's remember — preferably by the Feijóo governments, was twice as hard because of the structural characteristics of our weak labour market, with low employment and activity rates and with that emigration of the most specialized young people. Thus, the reduction in essential public services creates precariousness and labour poverty. And I also set off -- linking it to the debate we had -- that increase in the burden of care. Unfortunately, the counselor said that care was already part of our customs, but unfortunately it is also part of our customs not to value that essential work for the reproduction of life and to condemn, above all, women to an unbearable burden of work when cutting off the state, when public services were withdrawn. Finally, the summary is: cuts down and benefits up. This is evident in Feijóo's fiscal policy, which is consolidated with these draft budgets and tax measures. By 2020, we — of course, have already said this throughout this budgetary debate — do not resign ourselves to accept that, with social, educational and health needs not covered, tax gifts are made to those who have the most. We could make a brief X-ray of the social emergency situation in our country; it won't give us time to mark all the data that lead us to, for example, make it about six hundred and seventy thousand Greeks and Greeks who earn income under nine thousand gross euros. That is, almost seven hundred thousand people reaching a maximum of 750 euros gross a month; this is the drama of our country. We could continue to put data on it, but since it's not going to give me time, what we mean is that with this social landscape, with this consolidation of the deposition of the popular Greek classes, the Union declines its obligations. During the crisis, first, it decided to reduce its participation in the country's economy as a whole and reduced public spending on GDP. And in the post-crisis — which is not the overcoming of the social crisis — it did not recover it at the level of what GDP recovers; except that, in election years. That's why this budget will increase a little more than GDP forecasts. The consequence is that we have an increasingly important public sector in the whole of the country's economy, but it is that, in addition, a tax policy of the Feijóo Government is added by which the Union reduces the weight of its own taxes and therefore becomes more dependent on the deliveries of the State, and we return to that substantive debate on funding. But what we also want to highlight is that despite the low tax capacity of the Union, the Union declines to exercise its abilities. In short, it's a model consistent with the ideology of the People's Party: less capacity for public intervention, less self-administration, tax advantages for those who have the most and rhetoric continues that Galicia is a family. But it turns out that we have no condemnation of having to share luck at the same time, but that a nation with self-government, even if it is limited, must compensate for inequalities and anticipate social and economic problems. That is why the first point of this motion urges us to reject the dogma of the expenditure ceiling and austerity policies and, therefore, to increase the public investment of the Union — we figure it in an average of four hundred million euros per year in the next five years: twice what the Union intends to increase by 2020. But let's remember, it's election year; it's an anomaly of the budgets of the Union -- because we understand that there is not only an alternative in public policies. Even within the system model, you can choose to benefit the rich or the social majority. And what the Feijóo governments choose is for tax exemptions, tax gifts to those who have the most. But to ensure, of course, that this dogma of austerity does not permeate all public policies, of course, it is necessary to reverse constitutional reform. This reform of Article 135 of the Spanish Constitution must be repealed, as a result — let us remember — of a pact of great coalition which has expressly amended the Constitution to favour the financial sector above all; for public administrations to fulfil the debt they owe to the general interest. The political scene in the state — from what we've been talking all morning — is going to lead us back to the same thing as at the end of 2015; to unlock it, or we have to admit this great coalition or we have to bet on plurality and democracy. Today's news shows that progressive government can be possible. We hope that this is the case, but the data from the Congress of Deputies show that you can only bet on plurality and democracy by recognizing also the civic and political rights of the people. We hope that this is the case, and we also take advantage of it to congratulate both the BNG and the United We can on their Greek representation. We also take advantage of it to point out that our country has voted with an electoral system different from the rest of the state, as has been done in the Basque Country and Catalonia. Finally, the PP model is clear. In the country, since 2014, the tax benefits to which most of you have assumed an accumulated income drop that reaches €2,827 million; this is more than the budget of the entire Education Council this year. And it highlights above all the tax on successions and donations, which accumulates tax benefits of 717 million euros. We were talking before the Social Policy Council. Well, the tax benefits that they achieve are almost the budget of the council—all that is meant for the home aid service, residences, childhood schools and Risga—: EUR 717 million that could have been used to activate a public network of child schools that accommodates all demand, to boost a real social income supplement or to dynamize the care economy. In short, there are funds but they are left in the pockets of the rich. So what we're proposing is to review the increase in the Union's own taxes based on the principle of fiscal justice. We're not a family; not all of us have to have the same luck. Fiscal justice, beginning with presenting a bill to recover the tax rates of the heritage tax of 2018, which, let's remember, has been reduced by twenty percent, which has reduced the collection by eleven percent. And reverse the changes made in the succession tax. At the same time, what do we propose? Where would we invest? Raise public investment in health, education and social services. At least to achieve the average percentage of investment in these functions in the European Union in relation to GDP by 2022. Because the reality is that we follow below the European Union average, both in social investment and in fiscal pressure. Thus, we are deepening in that system's inadequacy of what was being talked about in the morning; and because of a lot of social spending propaganda from these 2020 budgets, the reality is that we are following far from the level of public investment in the welfare of the European average. Health: compared to one and a half percent — seven percent in terms of GDP — we're just over six; education: about 4.5 percent, we're at 3.6 percent. But besides, if we were still at the run-up level, in 2018 the spending on health, education and social services was still less than that of 2009: 106.5 million euros less. We also need to look at the issue of budgetary execution and also see the expenditure per inhabitant adjusted in health care, education and social services, which remains below 2009. By 2020, what level of commitment can be made to the implementation of budget allocations? In addition, what we propose is to modify — as we have tabled amendments — the Budget Bill proposed by 2020 so that at least in those programmes which are even nominally below 2009 the investment will be raised at least at the level of 2009. We are also talking about investing in a sector that activates the economy in the care sector, in innovation, in social welfare in general. Therefore, we are promoting sustainable productive sectors with the environment in this context of climate crisis and necessary ecological and economic transition. Nor do we forget the state's obligations in connection with the financing of dependency, which it seems here that this has now been invented by the People's Party with the request of these nearly two hundred million euros which, with the cuts of the People's Party, could not enter the Autonomous Community. Look, if not, you're the Royal Decree 20/2012. So we expect this motion to prosper to secure public services in our country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u72	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u73	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. We agree with the substance of the motion presented by the Joint Group today, which now stood up for Mrs Vázquez Verao; although it is true that there are some issues which seem to us that are also more appropriate in the debate that we will have next week, in that debate already returning to the entire draft budget law. But I insist that we coincide from the BNG with the political background of the motion, with a question that pointed to Mrs Vázquez Verao, which is how the economic crisis was used as an alibi to cut rights and hit public services hard. And that's about the back of the Galicians and the Greeks, especially those people who have less resources. And I think that, in addition, the best and the greatest example of how this economic crisis was used and instrumentalized as an alibi to give a severe blow to the rights of workers and workers and public services is precisely that reform of article 135 of the Spanish Constitution, a conceived text almost like dogma, unquestionable, almost sacred, unchangeable, until, of course, the bank arrived and ordered to stop. And then it could be done by an emergency procedure, jumping or jumping into the air any democratic principle, in a pact with a process that lasted less than a month and which was, as Mrs Verao herself said, the result of a great coalition between the People's Party and the Socialist Party. This change introduced several aspects of that change, but it is a substantial change that predates the payment of the debt to any other issue, including the guarantee of public services as a fundamental part of ensuring a fair society, a just society. A profoundly ideological decision that benefited the interests of the financial power — by the way, responsible for the 2008 crisis — on the account of social rights, workers' and workers' rights and also public services. That's why I insist we share the political background. And we believe that, in addition, it is an urgent need to put an end to that neoliberal dogma which is imposed and, above all, to ensure that public services are blocked as the right they are. For that reason, it is essential not to say that it is necessary — it was mentioned in the presence of the Social Policy Adviser — that human resources, professional resources and sufficient economic resources are guaranteed to allow equitable access to public services as a whole. At present, the Government of the Galician Union, in addition to what the honourable Member had already pointed out in her speech, maintains a consolidated expenditure on social services under the State average, specifically EUR 48 less expenditure consolidated in social services here in Galicia than in the state as a whole. And the cuts, the reparations, the privatizations are not harmless and they fall on those who need it most or whose economic situation is worse. It worsens, in addition, public services and prevents them from accessing them in equity to the whole society of our country. And the view is -- and there is no need to do a great deal of detailed study -- the situation in which public services such as health are found after a decade of cuts from the People's Party, particularly primary care, or the situation in which the care and assistance services were found, and depending on what they were talking about a few minutes ago. We're going to support the motion. In addition, it will be one of the issues on which we will also focus — I say — the week next to the debate on the draft budget for the Galician Union by 2020. And one last question, before I finish, about what the Counselor said — we must also thank her for the things; by Caesar what is Caesar's. It's rather curious that a Councillor at the Galician Council, at parliamentary headquarters, recognizes that the Galician Nationalist Bloc has returned to Congress to claim to the Spanish Government what the Spanish Government owes this country in the matter of co-financing aid to the unit: almost 200 million euros. [[Applause]] It would also be better, now that you hit your chest, that you had so many and so many times supported that BNG brought this issue to this chamber. The last time you voted against the claim of these two hundred million euros was the recent debate in the state of the nation. [[Applause]] But — I insist — it is well to recognize that it is worth more than ten of the People's Party in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[Murmurs.]] Easy, easy, easy. It was a comment without more, nor is it just something like that. [[Murmurs.]] Parliamentary Group on the Left, Mrs Quinteiro. Isn't he? Can anyone warn you? [[Pause.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, it's Mrs. Quinteiro's turn. [[Pause.]] Well, if there's a problem... are you on shift? Well, thank you. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Porritt. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please, that's it. Nothing happened. Now Mrs. Porritt's turn is up. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u75	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. With regard to the motion on budgetary expenditure in fundamental public services, there are many and varied issues that are expressed: the expenditure ceiling, the tax policy of the Government of the United States, public investment in health, education, public services and dependence. In some of us we agreed and others we didn't share. Our position on the expenditure ceiling is known — an issue already dealt with in the middle of October 23rd. We are in favour of their existence; another thing is to set their limit. We agreed at the bottom of the request in points 3, 4 and 5. I'm saying at the bottom because with respect to the third person in his proposal, he's trying to introduce a bill. But both with regard to this third and fifth point, since we are discussing the draft budget law and the draft tax law, what is appropriate is to make amendments to the aforementioned laws. We absolutely reject the returning tax policy of the Galician Union; a fiscal policy that favours those who have the most, violating the principles of our tax system as set out in Article 31 of the Constitution. Well, the budgets of the Galician Union are repeatedly gathering tax cuts to wealth, which favors more inequality. And although, on the 23rd day, Mr. Puy expressly said that where the market that generates inequities works is where they should be corrected through a redistributive tax system, both through income and through spending, one thing is what is said and another is what is done. The fiscal policy of the People's Party also spoke to former administrator Ana Pastor in last week's debate. He said: we're going to eliminate property tax, inheritance tax, lower corporate tax and lower income tax. Yes, the former administration has forgotten to comment on another reduction: the reduction in public services. Who did not forget to say expressly was the representative of Vox, a member of the People's Party in various administrations. Mrs. Monasterio has no longer spoken of lowering, but rather eliminating, eliminating the public sector, leaving the free running market without the state bothering. Tax benefits, called exemption, deduction, bonus or reduction, are instruments of fiscal policy with a definite objective. Of course, one of the objectives of any tax benefit should be the redistribution of wealth, in addition to the fact that any tax benefit is a situation of privilege contrary to the principles of equal and contributing justice collected in the Constitution. What are the goals that the Galician Union wants to achieve with the tax benefits of wealth tax, succession tax and property transmission tax? We have it clear: to favor those who have the most at the expense of cuts in public services. Together you can present and approve thanks to your absolute majority — for now — tax measures that can be legal but, of course, they are not fair, progressive or efficient. What the country supports are income from work, public and private workers, pensioners and small self-employed people. And so as the rich pay less and less taxes and see how their wealth increases by about five hundred percent, the number of poor workers living in precarious conditions increases. It renounces Union to increase income through taxes, deducting from the system resources it could and should aim to improve public services such as health, education, social services and dependence, thus ensuring the principle of equal opportunities. Mrs Vázquez Verao gave figures in the inquiry and the advisor in her reply also gave figures by 2020, figures that I will not question: EUR 4.106 million for health, EUR 2.465 million for education and EUR 830 million for social policy. I repeat that I will not enter figures, because it seems that opposition groups and the People's Party never agree, and I will only ask a series of questions: Is the investment made in health, education, social services and dependence sufficient? The answer is no. Is there a need to cover? Yes. Could the Galician Union raise more taxes on wealth and use them to improve these services? Yes. So that's really what we're asking: that they go back in their fiscal policy and apply a progressive fiscal policy that allows for increased resources and aimed at reducing existing inequalities. Because there is no social justice without a fair taxation that respects the principles of equality and progressiveness upon which our tax system rests. By not fully sharing what was requested by the Joint Group, we abstain. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Porritt. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fernández Macías.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u77	Thank you, President. First of all, I wanted to say to Mrs. Verao that it seems good to congratulate the results of the Nationalist Block Galego and Podemos, but then the People's Group should organize a party for our results, because it's not the same... Mrs. Rodil, it's not the same thing to win the election that doesn't win them, and it's not the same thing to raise 19,000 votes, as the PPdeG did, to lower 68,000 as it did the second most voted force, which is the Socialist Party. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] By focusing on the issue, I hope you will give me time to explain the position of the People's Group on all the issues raised by the Joint Group in your motion, because you present a row of points that are true that are related to each other, but the truth is that they are of such magnitude, so transcendent, that they can hardly be debated rigorously in such a short time. And, in fact, you also named him not to give him time to talk about all the figures. Anyway, by trying to follow the order of points that you are considering, we have to first talk about the convenience of using or not using the figure on the ceiling, and they also talk about the austerity policies that led to the Unity of Galicia. You spoke in your intervention as if those policies were a big lie or a big scam, and nothing further than reality, because policies were necessary in a context of economic crisis but to your surprise — imaginary that also for your sorrow and the whole opposition — these policies did not sink the economy as you predicted but, look where you are — helped Galicia to be on a path of consecutive growth for 7 years. A sustainable and sustained economic growth in time, as evidenced by economic data today. In the second point, you call on the Central Government to repeal the reform of Article 135 of the Constitution. Precisely that principle by which we reject ourselves, and which has been called ideological here, is what guarantees the sustainability of public services to which you have alluded throughout your intervention, and also guarantees the state of well-being. And it also makes it possible for States not to break for excess debt as happened in Greece for example, because it is an instrument that allows balance depending on the economic context, either in times of kindness or in times of crisis, and that the burden of debt is not so heavy. But it's not only good for them not to break the states, but also for them not to break the autonomous communities, like for example with Catalonia when they pulled those patriotic bonds that they could not finally pay, and it was the state that had to rescue them to prevent the breaking of the community. At the third point, first of all, you're talking about recovering the tax type of property tax to the levels that you were before, but it's actually already what you're doing on Galicia's board this year. I mean, to this day, this tax is exactly the same as when the People's Party arrived at the government. But that doesn't mean lowering it, as you call it over and over again, but it's been up for five consecutive years, and now we keep it as the rest of the autonomous communities and as the rest of the state's tariffs. And by the way, these tax types of heritage we have in Galicia are the same ones approved in Castile-A Mancha, where the Socialist Party and We can rule in coalition, and I don't see the homologous parties here in this House say anything about that. While, on the other hand, you ask to reverse the so-called succession tax, which means more than 99% of the Greeks do not pay this tax. But at the very moment, we see that the facts give reason to the Galician Union, because that tax drop helps, among other things, consolidate that path of economic recovery in our Autonomous Community. In point 4, you ask to raise investment in health care, education and social services. Well, the budgets submitted by the Union for the year 2020 are already increasing in this investment, so that by 2020 there will be — which Mrs Porritt had already commented on these figures — EUR 4.106 million for health care, EUR 2.465 million for education and EUR 830 million for social services. In other words, EUR 1,100 million is now allocated more to these three areas than at the beginning of the People's Party legislation. That is, there are more resources than ever, or what is the same -- which was also commented on in the previous appearance of the counselor -- more places of doctors and nurses, more public schools, more caregivers and guides or more money for dependence, among other things. In point 5, you want to amend the Joint Budget Bill by 2020. But what's more serious is that they intend to bring these budgets to the levels that were in 2009, knowing -- although you didn't mention it here, I don't know whether or not -- that those budgets from the Board for the year 2009 were supposed to be a big scam and a big lie, because they were inflated by 1,600 million euros. Some 1,600 million euros, which, as you know, have remained duty, and we are still paying today as a result of the negative liquidations. And you want us to go back to that bubble and those ghost budgets. But in the current government of the Galician Union and the People's Party, the difference between others, we don't want to go back to that situation to leave puppets or to leave economic problems for the next few years, regardless of who governs and comes to the German Government. And finally, and to finish by now, at the last point, it would be in the only part that we would agree on whether to transfer to the central government the need for it to assume 50 percent of dependent expenditure, as it has already been stated earlier in the counsellor's appearance. But I remind you, particularly Mrs Rodil, that, at the plenary session of October 17, 2017, the People's Group has already voted in favour of a motion put forward by the Nationalist Block in Wales on this subject, and therefore our commitment remains as vigilant and remains a maximum claimed by the Union, incorporated in addition to the Galician Agenda. For all this, we shall vote against this motion. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Macías. Before we continue, we will greet the pupils and students of CEIP Plurilingual Les Solanas, of the Guard, who are with us in Parliament today. They're fifth and sixth primary students and they're also with their teachers. Welcome to Parliament! And now yes, it turns out to be a replica. The author of the motion, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u79	Yes, welcome and welcome to Parliament. The first thing I want to remember is that most of the vote in generals in our country is progressive, so congratulations can be extended. Well, the reality here, the central question — and I am summarizing it very well that it was the voice of the Socialist Party — is that, with social needs not covered, it is not the time to extend tax benefits. We could argue that we don't think it's ever time to apply these tax exemptions and not make redistributive justice. But, precisely here, what we're talking about is that there are unmet needs, and the Government of the United States bets for tax benefits to those who have the most. But, in addition to the 2009 data, we continue to run on per capita expenditure in terms of less than 2009. There are even programmes — and they are some of the ones mentioned in the motion — that are in nominal terms, without counting the accumulated IPC, under 2009, and we are still below the European Union average on investment in essential public services. It's a reality, it's a deficit in our country. Of course, we're talking about strategic issues, as BNG's voicer said. We're talking about how the crisis was used as an excuse to cut down popular classes. And there is no more to see the data of inequality, of brutal increase in inequalities, and of even more unequal redistribution of wealth. So it's not that there were no money, it's that he gave up the alternative he was supposed to redistribute them. There is not only one alternative, the alternative is not just cropping below. And that economic growth since 2014 is not due to those cuts. Economic growth, precisely because of these restrictive rules, did not reach the majority of society. And this doesn't say it in Marea, it's not said by opposition groups, it's said by the Economic and Social Council and the many economic reports that are coming out. By the way, the Greek State wouldn't have to break up if it didn't want the European Union. We could talk about the complex of monetary policy and how states are not family precisely, and they can regulate their level of debt. And speaking of strategic issues, here too, there is a background, which dramatically was also seen in one aspect of these elections, and that in a context of economic uncertainty, poverty and inequality there is an obvious questioning of institutions that are theoretically called upon to comply with the general good. And when there is no left-wing alternative even within the system, as it was not possible to reach a progressive government, they agronomize "solutions" — between quotes — authoritarian. We hope, therefore, that today's news about the possibility of progressive government is given, because those authoritarian solutions or authoritarianism are bringing us all forward. Also to the People's Party, and also to the interests of the People's Party. Because I think it was also Mrs Porritt who spoke here about Vox's economic proposals, which are the total deregulation. In the end, betting on that in their policies will lead to others occupying that space, because the situation is dramatic. So we defend that fundamental question, which is that it is free to make the crisis pay to popular classes. Even within the system and within the mechanisms that the Union has, you may not choose to give tax benefits to the rich and benefit the majority of society.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u80	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. G.P. motion. Joint Left Group, at the initiative of Da Carmen Santos Queiruga, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the deficit of relief workers
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u81	There's an amendment from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. Luís Bará Torres and through his spokesman, in the light of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this motion.Additional amendment.The following points should be added after the articulated text:"6)Promoting together with all parties to the adoption of a specific agreement of the sector. As long as this agreement is not approved, it is necessary to ensure minimum working conditions and wages for all relief workers.7)To establish a stable and multi-annual grant system to co-finance staff recruitment by the municipalities.8)To develop a study on mortality on beaches and other bathing spaces that takes into account: incidences by beach or bathing area, danger of bathing areas, causes of disability, age and sex of victims, data per month/stations of the year, available means, etc.9)To review SAPRAGA and increase the number of beaches with mandatory coverage of rescue and rescue personnel.10)]] Discard the creation of the relief aid figure.")
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u82	To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u83	Hello, very late to Members and Members. Mr. President. Looks like we're gonna have good news if we finish unlocking, so we can start talking about doing things, and also here in Galicia. And beyond this -- welcome to those who visit us -- we are on the subject of what we have already talked about in the plenary about the problems this summer was on the beaches because the lack of involvement of the Vice-Presidentship of the Union with regard to the Greek emergencies, after having warned the municipalities, the relief personnel and the actors involved, the platforms and trade union agents, one more year has increased the number of drownings on our beaches, unfortunately. It was explained in the appeal to Vice President of the Union that there were unacceptable numbers that died from 2015 to 2018 200 17 people drowned in Galicia and that eighty percent were on beaches where there were no relief personnel. All causes were explained: excessive training without facilities to perform it, low wages, precariousness. Almost there was a strike during the summer. Relief personnel were asked to provide this training in a more decentralized way. We asked the commission to be free, and we called for cooperation from the Vice-Presidentship of the Union to provide budgetary support to the municipalities so that they could carry out the necessary coverage to ensure security on our beaches. It gave them the same. The vice president looked for all possible excuses to try to cover up his lack of involvement and his management deficit, as he always blames the municipalities. We're used to this government, every time there's a hole in the management of the Government of the People's Party, always looking for guilt in some places; if it's not in the municipalities, it's in Catalonia, in Venezuela or anywhere, less in its mismanagement. It doesn't matter if you put all the staff on strike, whether it's the administration, whether it's the staff who has to suffer externalizations, who are the model of government of this party, and who we know are more expensive and precarious workers and workers, and the staff of relief. We explained to them that there are virtually identical numbers of deaths in traffic accidents than on the beaches. And yet the German Government lives in denial. They refuse to coordinate emergencies, they refuse to put on the resources they need to ensure the safety of the Greeks and the Greeks. They're still defending Mr. Montoro's management, which is what facilitated the strangulation of the municipalities; although we're not going to exculpate those who have the budgetary resources to be able to have the relief service and, however, they choose not to have it or to make it precarious. Let's also put specific examples in his speech of blaming the Town Councils: in Porto do Son, which comes to be the Sanxenxo da Coruña and in which they have absolute majority, in the previous summer they only had two contracts as mid-day rescuers for 600 euros, and this summer, zero rescuers, with the dangerous ones that are these beaches. For us they are worth exactly the same as the lives of those who died in traffic. We have to have control and security measures to ensure security on our roads, and we also want to have measures to have professionally trained staff who have decent working conditions and can do their work properly. And we also have to ensure that the beaches are not left, especially the most competitive and dangerous, without the service of emergencies and rescuers in perfect state and without dignity for the workers. And that's why we meet with relief workers and relief professionals and their representatives to bring proposals. Apart from demonstrating the worst management of the Vice-Presidentship in this matter which for us is no smaller, they call on the Commission to reach agreements, to which the opposition itself, with the exception of the People's Party, has arrived, which always votes against. Because the amendments that bring us are always doing the same thing we've been doing. If we have this number of dead people and we expose again to the vice president that this summer, as we already feared, has obviously increased, it cannot be done the same. It's in a clean drawer. You can't do the same when the numbers of death and danger on the beaches rise, and the number of relief professionals still falls on our beaches. Of course you can't do the same. We also explained that there are other communities and other territories where with more visits by tourists and bathers the number of deceased was lowered and, in addition, relief workers had some conditions that would guarantee them to do their work more correctly, but the vice president said that they in Galicia did what they thought and what they were asked to do. Well, these are the consequences of this government doing with its absolutist majority what it wants. Those are the figures of this government and the result of the management of this government in all the subjects it manages. But we, of course, do not resign and we're going to bring our proposals so that the citizenry understands, without creating alarms, that there are problems that need to be solved in other unknown issues like these. We are a tourist power, we are a power on beaches, and we also have to guarantee security guarantees for this tourist attraction when we have visitors here and also for ourselves as Welsh and as Welsh. So we're going to bring the proposals that seem reasonable to us and that look like the right ones to improve the management of this issue and ensure the safety of the Greeks and the Greeks and the people who visit us, in collaboration with the collectives, who are the ones who perform this service and who are the professionals who know what it takes. That's why we brought this motion as a result of the question and the vice president's refusal to recognize the problem that exists. It consists of several points, which are: First of all, to promote employment stability by means of types of contracts which encourage the expansion of the seasons from 1 June to 30 September. We all know that the summer period now lasts longer, and we have visitors and we have many more bathers; not only in July and August. And that working days, even through multi-national recruitment, include the maintenance and loyalty of the same staff frame from time to time, because if not, it happens that, with a bag of alleged candidates to fill the squares, it turns out that later the municipalities have no candidates or candidates to cover them, because people cannot live with these conditions of instability, without continuity and precariously. Secondly, to provide social institutions with the possibility of joining a unified call, as was done with local police, allowing access to all persons registered in the register without requiring registration in the Public Employment Service as a prior requirement, which is cashier. Third, increase budgets to make training more accessible and promote access to some related titles through bridge courses such as INEF or TAFAD. It is not that we do not want training, as you have tried to perniciously manipulate the vice president by saying falsehoods that we, in no case, have proposed. Fourthly, professional recognition is consistent with the requirement of technical titration on the corresponding scale of the relief workers, because we what we do want is their professionalization for their dignity. Fifthly, it provides economic resources to cover part of the service to those local entities who need it through grant processes, so that it can serve more areas and not only those that respond to demands of different distinctions, such as blue flags, because this is to guarantee the safety of the Greeks and the Greeks, to guarantee services and to ensure that they are really coordinating emergencies and providing resources that are necessary, but ensuring dignity, professionalism and therefore the good coverage of a service that in Galicia, if we want to continue increasing the number of visitors and continuing to be and growing as a tourist power, it is fundamental, it is fundamental! Because, what guarantees will you offer as a government, as an emergency service, in the face of this situation, when they call for tourists to come to Galicia, behind our back? These are the guarantees that they offer: every year increasing the number of deceased people, who have more and more beaches without personal rescuers -- because they don't want the precariousness that you offer them, outsourcing and precariousness through their subcontracts in companies, which is their usual model -- and cheap excuses to say that we don't have beaches at the level of Catalonia, the Valencian Community, the Balearic Islands or Asturias? Is that the proposal of Mr. Feijóo's supervisors? Well, I'm sorry to tell you, but so we don't just grow up as a country, but you have less credibility, and you'll see with time, when the state level starts doing things, as if it's going to show more of the little you're doing and the evil they're doing to Galicia and all the public services all these years of black decades because of their mismanagement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u85	Good morning. This initiative allows us to talk about the situation of relief, generally of emergencies in Galicia, and of relief in natural spaces, not only on the beaches, which is a situation of extreme and worrying precariousness and where we have many problems. It must be said that not all are the responsibility of the Galician Union, but some of them, and very important, yes. The main problem -- the initial problem, we can say -- is the basic regulation that regulates this matter, which is an obsolete regulation, so obsolete that it is 1972 and is signed by the president of that government, such a White Career, which assigns this competence to the municipalities and also establishes the classification of the types of beaches, their danger, the signage and the means of relief and relief services. It is to be assumed that since 1972 the situation has changed greatly because, in this paper, it is the order that regulates this matter — that is what regulates this matter, this order — it is said to be greatly increasing the influence on the beaches. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows a document.]] Of course, in the 1970s. We're back in time and I think another policy framework is needed. Secondly, the other problem is the beach rescue plan of Galicia, the Sapraga. They haven't dealt much with the name, perhaps, but the problem is not the name, the problem is that this plan is also not updated since 2001, and we also assume that it has changed the situation of our country a lot, so that we have to update this plan, but it is a reflection, in any case, of the situation in which emergencies in this country are in general. Well, the beach plan, saving beaches, contemplates what kind of beaches, according to the fluency and danger, have to have the relief service, and other matters as well. Well, to get an idea of what we're talking about, as a result of this plan, 80% of Pontevedra's beaches, in Pontevedra province, have no obligation to be a rescuer, they have no relief workers, nor 70% of the Greek beaches. Given the number of beaches and the danger, the type of coastline we have, it is inconceivable that we have a plan in these conditions. That's why we have the worrying figures -- and for other reasons also, logically -- of accidents on the beaches, where we are at the head of the state, after Andalusia, on this sad question. That's why we ask our amendments to make a serious study of what's going on on on the beaches over the last few years to see what kind of accidents occur and how they can be avoided. These statistics tell us that 85% of deaths occur on beaches that have no relief services, although here we have to say that we have another type of drowning deaths, how sadly we live and suffer today. Then there's the problem of the lack of rescue aid to cover the squares offered by the municipalities. Some municipalities offer contracts through companies and others directly hire staff. The reality is, they're not covering even the squares offered by the municipalities, which are around 1,000 squares throughout the country. And this despite the alleged registration of more than 5,200 people who have professional qualifications and who have done the training courses, which we defend. By the way, it seems good that there are training courses and a formative program like the one over 400 hours ago. The problem is not this training program, that there has to be this professional qualification for the recognition of the profession, but the disproportionate cost - around 1,500 euros - that have these courses, which for many people are, of course, inaccessible, then taking into account the difficult working conditions. In this respect, we also tabled an amendment to dismiss the proposal, the occurrence, that patch that announced the Join of the creation of relief workers, because this would be in the direction of further precaution of the profession. So, what are the causes of this rescue deficit? Why does this paradox occur that there are more than 5,000 registered persons and that this offer of squares is not covered? First of all, precarious economic and labour conditions, with low wages, with timeliness and timetables and difficulties of conciliation as well. Secondly, the lack of regulation in the sector. We miss and propose, as the unions do, that there is a specific agreement, and, while there is no agreement, that they regulate themselves and that the working conditions of all personnel are approved throughout the country. It can't be that in a site they cover 1,300 euros, in another 1,200 or 1,100, and there's no such approval. After that, the lack of social and professional recognition, which is also a serious problem they have. Finally, we also propose that subsidies be stabilized, which are predictable, not just now, that change the Government's whim. This is doing well in other communities like, for example, in Asturias, where there is multi-year funding for the municipalities that are included in the beach rescue plan. In short, it would not happen what happened, for example, in the Town Hall of Barriers, which changed the Government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u86	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u87	...and they halved the subsidy and the subsidised squares of rescuers. Curiously, he was informed in June.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u88	Thank you, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u89	So they're proposals to improve this service, to prevent and save lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u90	Thank you, Mr Bará. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u91	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. At the entrance of this summer there were meetings, several, where the previous Emergency Director-General of the Union was present, to address the situation of this sector, that of the relief workers and the relief workers. A sector that today - known by all - is precarious and that we have to provide mechanisms and budgets if we want it to be able to do their job well. We are talking about this motion for labour stability, unified calls, budgetary increase, professional recognition or economic resources, and this is the only way for us to be able to have a quality relief service. The relief services we have to equip them with means, and improve the working conditions of professionals and professionals. The second autonomous community in which most people die drowned soon serves our backs of blue flags if we are later - as Mr Bará said. It soon serves to fill our beaches with blue flags if the municipalities then have to give up because they don't find the rescuers they need to keep that flag. And, of course, who will want to work in a job that assures you only two months a year, who will want to work when you have to spend more than 1,400 euros on your own pocket in a course to train you, or who will want to work when shift work exceeds the hours that can bear and with precarious wages that vary according to the county where they are hired or hired? And, of course, by not doing things right, because we meet with headlines that year after year, in summer season, flood the press: "Galice without rescuers in summer." "The rules of this obsolete community prevent all aquatic spaces from being covered and therefore endanger the safety of bathers." More efficient people don't get to this training because they're going to run something, first, that they already know, and secondly, because the duration of the course, as well as the cost, is excessive. The Galician Salvation Federation demands by law the obligation of rescuers on the beaches: "Vigo rescuers manifest themselves in Samil to ask for improvements in their working conditions." This is also the business of private companies. "The Greek beaches will once again have a shortage of rescuers this summer." We were talking here over 1,500 kilometers from the coast, over 750 beaches, 107 blue flags and so many other aquatic spaces inside. I have to demarcate a spark - almost nothing - from the compañera Santos, from his exposition, from the interpellation that was made the other day, because we talked here about a collective that we think has own interests within the management of the rescue service, because it's a company, and this as a company opts for contests that take out the councils. And we, from the Joint Parliamentary Group, from En Marea, believe that this has to be a single service, which has to be a public service in relation to public training, 100 percent public, and does not take any other proposal. We continue with the motion, and we continue to agree that these staff cannot afford the courses. We will have problems with the shortage of professionals to cover the demands, together with the precarious wages, the poor working conditions, the competitions to privatize these services and the use of public money for other less important issues than the safety of our bathroom. This makes us face the same problem this summer and the past, that we're not going to have qualified professional staff to work on this issue. This is Mrs Santos - the Joint Left Group - speaking of promoting employment stability. That's vital, not only in this field, but in everyone, and unfortunately, Galician Union has been used to the contrary. It also offers local entities the possibility of joining a unified call. We're already used to the fact that, many times, in the face of the incompetence of the Board to provide an effective service, the death is carried back to the Town Councils. And then we found ourselves with what Mrs. Santos said here a little bit; that is, with those rescuers who are less than two meters away but who are from different municipalities, doing the same job, doing the same hours, they have totally different salaries. It's exactly the same with the forest fire department brigade. They provide and Orphan the collective to make an accessible training. We also fully agree with professional recognition according to the existence of technical titration on the corresponding scale. And, the usual, we have to provide economic resources to cover part of the service in those local entities that need it. The Galician Union, the Self-Government, must be in order to assist those municipalities which, due to lack of technical or economic resources, cannot exercise it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u92	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u93	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. We will support this initiative. We believe that aquatic relief needs already stability in employment - it is true - a common framework for working conditions and staff selection and, above all, more government budgets. We're talking about 1,500 kilometers of coastline, and besides river beaches all over the country, where rescuers and water rescuers should also act. We are perfectly aware that the responsibility for the safety of the beaches is the responsibility of the municipalities, it is true, but the responsibility for planning is the Government of the Union, and, in fact, a plan has been made, the Plan of Rescue on the beaches of Galicia, only for the coastal municipalities, which has been in force since 2001, without any change. This is the year 2019. We believe that we should also include municipalities that have river beaches, and we must also update it because, with the speed of all this, from 2001 to 2019 it has absolutely nothing to do with it. The plan needs an urgent and thorough update. There are agreements between the Town Councils, and there are agreements between the Town Councils and the Self-Government, it's true. It gives the Administration, through Civil Protection, rescue material, facilitates the training of staff through the Galician Academy of Security, even offers them all kinds of infrastructure through the Emergency Station, and those entities that are dedicated, even from the municipal level, to the professional activity of water relief are entered into a professional register. So normal is collaboration; it's the usual between the two administrations, but it's a collaboration that is based on a rule that's already out of date, and in addition to today, reality, we're shown this breakthrough. There's no clear regulation on the number of aquatic rescuers to count on each of the municipalities, nor on the schedule, nor on how long and until they have to develop this activity. Each council decides priorities and decides resources. And there's also a second problem: the municipalities that receive the blue flag award at least have to have two water rescuers on each beach. There are municipalities that have several beaches, and because at least they have two water rescuers, they're not able, they don't have enough availability or even economic resources to be able to have these two rescuers. We remember that this summer, for example, there were several municipalities with a blue flag. I'm thinking of the county of Foz, which was left without relief workers precisely on this issue. Besides, there's one last problem, and it's just that the call for aid and subsidies from the Galician Union are always late, they come out of the summer season. And this happens and it's not from now on, it happened this year 2019, it happened in 2018, it happened in 2017, and so it goes year after year. That means that criteria must be approved for all municipalities, not that each municipality individually decides what criteria and resources will be for each one of them. We believe that this common framework of staff selection and working conditions is needed. And, besides, to finish -- I'm not going to waste all the time because we believe that everything is already said by all parliamentary groups -- we believe that, in addition, this cannot be done on the edge of the speech of the Galaga Federation of Municipalities and Provinces. It is necessary for the Fegamp to have an active intervention on this issue and therefore to intervene in the councils, to intervene in the Council of Galicia and also in the field of close collaboration in order to effectively solve a problem of drowning in the country. Sometimes we prefer not to perceive them or close their eyes, but we know that they also occur because of the lack of water rescuers on our beaches, and also in our rivers, which do not have them, because they have no obligation to have water rescuers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs New Farinha.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u95	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Mrs. Santos, credibility is already seen: it's not the same as winning elections that don't win. It must be the joy of the unlocking that I have to remind you and some other fellow, in my intervention, as always, various aspects that you always obvious, I don't think in any way interested. Let's focus on relief. I would like to reiterate that for us all the deceased, as I say in committee, whether by drowning or on the roads, are the same concerned and also the same important. But you always use it to hold Galician Union accountable, always, when you know it's the only administration that puts means, and you put a lot of them, because you have to deal with a problem that we have on the table. We do not deny that there is a problem and that it is not solved, but do not think that the solution only goes through the hands of the Self-Government, because it is necessary to remember, as I said at the outset, that you always notice that the recruitment of relief workers is not autonomous competition - it is collected in the laws -. It must be based on this premise, which is municipal competence, both the recruitment of staff and the determination of contract periods and wages. This should be borne in mind, because everyone who came out here noticed that, except Mrs. Vilán, which made reference to that and which we agree with in several respects that she commented on. But, just as it happens in the wake of emergencies, Junta provides important help to support the municipalities, because we are aware of the situation that many of them are going through to hire and because what we have is to guarantee the safety of citizens. The commitment is constant. They're not slogans, they're made. Here the councillor reaffirmed it in the full past: to continue with deliveries of rescue material to the municipalities - as it is done -, to continue to collaborate and finance training - as it is done - and to continue with subsidies - as it is done - which he well knows is the only administration that does so. In the past you have commented that in the initiatives in committee the PP had voted against. But, well, if we present some amendments, some amendments that we base on consensus and commitment, and you didn't accept. What did we want? Analyze the entities related to this topic, give you a voice to consider and assess needs and establish avenues of collaboration with Fegamp and Members to coordinate collaboration lines or other measures. But, of course, you do, no, we only urge the Union, we blame the Union and we blame the Union. And then, of course, we kept our commitment to collaboration with the municipalities, without prejudice to being municipal competition, but you didn't accept any amendments. Today he brings a motion that picks up several points, and I'll tell him we agree on several points. We agree because Junta is already working, Mrs. Santos. Look, I've got to keep reminding you: point 2, when it comes to a unified summons. The Union has already made a public commitment to this. Don't you remember the words of the councilman in the full past, who publicly committed himself? Point 3: Increase budgets to make training more accessible. Together, through the Agasp, you will increase your training offer, and you are already working to carry out those bridge courses. In point 4 he speaks of professional recognition according to the requirement of technical qualifications. Mrs. Santos, it already exists in Galicia. This recognition was one of the objectives that the Galician Union was pursuing with the minimum regulation for the exercise of its activity. Galicia was a pioneer in running accreditation tests. You're clear about that, too. In Galicia it is mandatory to have at least one certificate of professionalism, recognised at national and European level, so the relief workers meet the requirements to work in any place in Spain, which does not occur in other autonomous communities. On the other hand, we talked about the competition, about what I told you at first, and that's why I told you to keep it in mind. We do not agree with point 1 and point 5, because it talks about what really are municipal competences. See, in point 5 resources are already being provided: 2020, EUR 1.5 million. In point 1, with regard to the aspects of the recruitment of working days, we would include, through an amendment in voice, "promoting from the municipalities," because I told you what the municipal competences were. The recruitment corresponds to the municipalities, and the Galician Union must respect local autonomy. To finish, Mrs. Santos, we think this, of course, is a task of all; we continue with the same willingness to find solutions. We have already said that there is a problem on the table and that we have to find solutions between all of us, and, in the face of this problem, we propose a point-by-point vote. We hope, given that there is a very cordial atmosphere of understanding, that we also arrive here with the consensus for all the great professionals who actually do a great job in this direction. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u96	Thank you, Mrs. New. For the motion's own group, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I want to thank the groups on our side of the bench for supporting the initiative and also for the different considerations of the BNG amendment. First of all, well, I feel like they're so sick with the unlocks, but that's what there is. We consider the unlocks of the ultraright with the People's Party to be bad news, and other kinds of unlocks, good news. First of all - it's something I didn't say in the first intervention because I wanted to hear the answer, precisely, from Mrs Novo Farinha, because I was curious to know if I would follow in the the thesis of the vice president, to try to encompass within the number of deceased, this large number of deceased, of more than 200 deceased, those killed by drowning in occupational accidents - I want to transfer my affection and solidarity to the crew - the deceased and his family - of the Divine of the Sea, of Portosin, who are also in a certain way neighbors of my hometown and who have had an accident in the Baroña castle. That's why I think it's so important to talk about specific cases. Following in your thesis, Mrs. New Farinha, we do speak of the Town Councils: Montor Law, Mr. Montoro... We've been in the committees constantly talking, when they want to blame the municipalities for their budgetary strangulation situation, Mr. Montoro, the worst landowner in the history of our country. That is the great merit of the People's Party's management, which leads to the management of the city councils' services. But then, when you don't care, you obviously blame the municipalities. Listen to Mr. Luis Oujo, an absolute majority of the People's Party in Port of Sound, Sanxenxo da Coruña. Dead all the time. That is why we agree with Mr Bará's proposal to do a study on mortality on the beaches and on the type of mortality, because, indeed, I have already requested, after talking to Civil Protection and Local Son Port Police, which is the specific number of drowned bathers and not of drowning by occupational accidents. It's just that it's in a clean drawer. We don't have that data, so we want to know. And unfortunately, if they're so worried about the dead and if they're the same as traffic because they take measures, they give budget to the municipalities and they don't just say they're worried a lot. They start with their own, uh! by their own, by their absolute majority at the municipal level. And about the kind of people who die -- we've said it in the appeal to Mr. President of the Board -- most of them are boys over 55 years old. We were told by the rescuers that many are on the beach, in sharp hours, on Vigo beach, who find themselves ill, who give them respiratory insufficiency and that often the service is not covered. Of course, we call on our initial proposal in the committee to collaborate with Fegamp, with the Members. We proposed it, we proposed it ourselves, and the freeness of training courses, because in Asturias and other communities, autonomous governments, supervisors, take measures, the difference between you. Superintendents in other communities can take action, and since this is the second most deceased community, the superintendents of the majority absolutist of the People's Party cannot do anything, nor in the municipalities that have an absolute majority. Please! How unserious they are and how few humans they are!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u98	About the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u99	...and what kind of a face to have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u100	About the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u101	...to come and say this. Your amendment, Mrs. New Farina, was the same as we were saying, and they have continued to do so well that we are the second community in number of dead. Another summer, blue flags will fall because they have no relief workers, with an increase in deaths.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u102	Mrs. Santos, your time is up. On the amendment to the Block, will you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u103	We accept the amendment to the Block. We're not going to include these points because we're presenting non-law proposals not to make such a big battery of measurements...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u104	Okay. All right. Accepted. And do you accept the point of vote?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u105	We don't accept a point vote...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u106	You don't accept it. So that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u107	...because the safety of the Greeks and the Greeks doesn't go to the points of interest to the supervisors.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u108	All right. Thank you. That's it! [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Time's up. Thank you. That's it. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Well, then, in conclusion, he accepts the amendment of the Block and does not accept the vote by points of the PP. So we suspended the session until 4:30 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u109	Good afternoon. We resumed the session. G.P. motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of da Patricia Vilan Lorenzo, on the measures to be taken by the Government in relation to the crisis and climate change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u110	An amendment was tabled by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u111	To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u112	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. The other day I started my speech with a comic made by Greenpeace. There were four protagonists. Today I'm just going to pick one of the protagonists, the rest will vary, they have some relationship with governments in our country. Rocío Monasterio spoke of "climate camel"; Santiago Abascal, of "new trap of cultural Marxism"; Aznar, of "scientificly questionable theory"; and Mariano Rajoy - that is, of the long life of the Environmental Counsellor - was guided by a cousin who said there was no need to worry. And it's likely that none of these four protagonists of that new comic will hear...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u113	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u114	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u115	You hear a lot of noise here, and that makes it difficult to use the word. Please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u116	For neither one of them should probably sound the Paris Climate Change Accord, and perhaps the advisor doesn't sound too much. And I don't say it for free, I say it by the sentences of the intervention of the counselor the other day. He said that in Galicia CO2 emissions decreased. In fact, even since prehistory we probably have less, but it's just that, in addition, a couple of years ago, Meirama closed, causing CO2 emissions to the atmosphere that made us lie above -- we're still above -- of limits. But, of course, you've been ruling for ten years, and in those eight years before, we don't know the data. "Coal and diesel are not eternal," he said, "but what we can't do is determine one day for another to close." Well, it would be nice if he moved him to Endesa, who decided that closure. "We are the communities that nurture the state" -- we don't know that -- and Galicia is a solution to climate change without needing to close The Bridges." Of course, the advisor has forgotten that it is the factory that produces more CO2 from all over the Peninsula. He didn't say that 79 percent of Europe's coal plants aren't profitable either. In 2019 the losses will go to EUR 7 billion. Germany is the country with the most impact, but the second country with the greatest impact is Spain throughout the European Union. Nor did he say they lose competitiveness because of the collapse of other sources of energy, for example natural gas or wind energy, but also because of the high price of the ton of CO2. And here, right now, it's necessary to take some air and ask a question: how long is that high price of CO2 and who decided it? Because he didn't decide either Pedro Sánchez or Zapatero - and that Zapatero was very evil -. In March 2017, there was a president in Spain named Mariano Rajoy and a minister named García Tejerina. For in the European Union some countries, including Spain and Germany - March 2017 - agreed at that time that high price for CO2. And Mrs. Tejerina signed that high price. Of course, it may be that the consequence of all this is, "of those dusts, those muds," as you say. Endesa said a month or so ago that the cost of producing electricity for coal was increased and that she then decided to close the bridge power station. Nor did she tell the advisor that Endesa has four floors in Spain of coal, four thermals. For two, I had already asked for closure because coal was national coal, which no longer exists, and for the other two, among them the Bridges, decided to invest to comply with Community anti-contamination regulations by the end of 2030 and to continue working. But the company decided to close, Endesa decided to close. It wasn't any government, it was Endess, and legitimately. It's a company, and when a company loses money, it makes certain decisions. No one talks about it. But we don't want the Government of Galicia to be a company or run like a company. We believe that we already need a decarbonization plan promoted by the Government of Galicia to support the industries and regions that are affected. We believe the Government should intervene to support the industries and areas of Galicia and achieve a neutral coal economy in the year 2030. That is why we bring this motion, which is the result of the interpeleration of the previous plenary. It has seven measures, seven real measures, not theoretical measures. We call for specific annual budgets to fight climate change, but also to adapt to climate change and mitigate climate change, which we will no longer be able to eliminate from our lives. The first step is to establish in this legislation this autonomous plan -- already in this legislation -- and that this plan includes compensatory solutions for a fair ecological transition. The second measure is that the use of recycled materials in a four-year period by the Autonomic Administration itself is increased to 40%. The third step is that there are agreements between administrations and that specific programmes and actions are co-financed against the climate crisis. Fourth, that there is a renewable energy and self-consumption plan, also in the public sector, and that, since we are with the 2020 budgets, there is a specific match for that. The fifth, which the Government is promoting a comprehensive plan of R & D+i, because there are some strategic sectors of Greece that have to adapt to this climate change as well as agriculture. Just remember, two or three years ago, in the Ourense wine area, the frosts that fell at that time, which affected the part of production, because the spring heat had arrived in advance and there was already fruit. He arrived at the frost - normal in May - and he branched with part of that production and other production in Galicia. Because it's necessary to activate technology to adapt the field to climate change as well. We also call for the impetus of a study to ensure the effects of these climate change, for example, on the situation I have just described. And finally, there's a work table so you can talk about something that shines a lot, but of what you're talking about very little, which is light pollution. It needs to be reduced, and we believe that at that table should sit the Government, other administrations, universities and Fegamp. We were told by the scientific community -- we've had a little bit of a day on light pollution in Parliament -- that energy efficiency should also be used to reduce light pollution. These seven points, which are part of the motion, are not random points, but are not exclusive either. As many points as possible would be admitted. The government has to get to work because, while we're talking here, the climate crisis continues, the change continues, at the edge of our pace. Why do we need them? Despite what Mr Aznar said — it must be that the Nobel, some Nobel prize related to science, is that it is a scientifically questionable theory, 11,000 scientists and scientists just a month ago said that every decade, since the year 1970, it has been more warmer than the previous one, and that the longer the measures are delayed, the higher the costs, not only economic, but also socio-environmental. There is another scientific report, which was mentioned yesterday in the European Parliament's Committee on Fisheries, on the impact of the climate crisis on the seas and on CO2 concentrations on animal behaviour. People were asked to sign that report to neutralize carbon emissions by the year 2030. In Galicia we have an important fishing community and therefore we should worry about it. And there's also another scientific report that says that this climate emergency is going to affect, very little -- in the year 2050 they said, it's not so far away -- our territory, now it's going to be an island, the Corrubedo dunes are going to disappear, the Castro de Baroña is going to be eaten by the sea, and the village of the poor is going to drown. We believe that it is necessary not to pay so much attention to what Mr Aznar said and to what he says today, or Rocío Monasterio or Santiago Abascal, in this and other things neither, and that it would be good for you to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u118	Good afternoon. Starting here, in the end, with regard to this announcement of the areas of the country that would be drowned by rising sea level, one of the areas that would be affected would be, precisely, the marshes of Lourizán, where there is a known factory. I think this should be a reason for them to be seriously thinking about moving, to have to avoid these grave consequences of occupying land of public maritime-terrestrial domination, which, as we know, are fundamental ecosystems, precisely, to prevent climate change. [[Applause]] Well, although we're on a childhood schedule, we can address this matter, which is a very deep issue; it's a debate about the most important things we have, not for the future, but for the present, because of the consequences of change, the crisis and the emergency of the climate. And it must be said, first of all, that this is an absolutely rigged debate, a false debate, in which paradoxically those entities and organisms that contribute most to climate change appear announcing how champions of the fight against climate change, starting with large corporations, large states and parties that make policies that favour climate change, precisely, like the party that governs this country called Galicia. Here it looks very good to wear green, even if it's green eucalyptus, as the People's Party does, and declare itself sustainable and all those words that sound so good. So we also question that, and we also want to focus on this debate in a distortion that is also very common, that is to focus on the consequences of climate change and not on the causes. The causes can be reduced to one: the cause is an economic system called capitalism, which is a predatory system of resources and which, above all, creates inequalities and impoverishs the territories. That's the main cause. As much as they want to humanize it and dress it green, for no, the monk, though she looks silky, she stays. That's how capitalism is. I know you don't like it very much, but you have to recognize those things. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There is also another question that we want to put here in this debate, which is the role that Galicia plays in the state economy and in the world economy as a territory for the extraction of resources, natural resources, forest resources, energy resources and mining resources, with the grave consequences that this has for the deterioration of the territory and the landscape and the consequences it has for the climate. For you, through your laws, the law of depredation and the law of deprotection of the territory, are also contributors to this process, because, as we have said many times, the Union of Galicia is the largest climate change plant in this country with its policies of promoting depredation, with its mobility policies, with its waste policies, with its mining policies and with its forest policies, which destroy, destroy and degrade the territory. [[Applause]] And it's not just an aesthetic question, it's not just a visual question, it's not just a matter of landscape. You don't want to understand or care for the scientific community, which is telling them day and day that the eucalyptus told us the other day: "The eucalyptus is a tree." He discovered the Mediterranean. The eucalyptus is a tree, yes, it is also a plantation. "And the eucalyptus captures carbon, then, blessed be the eucalyptus," said the counselor. No, because eucalyptus degrades soils, consumes large amounts of water and impoverishs diversity and ecosystems, not to mention the spread of fires and the consequences that this has in our country as well. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We must therefore denounce these cosmetic, fake policies of the People's Party because they are in the opposite direction than should be the effective fight against climate change. And now we're sold a Greek 2050 strategy, climate and energy -- by the way, that didn't go through this Parliament -- We once again demand here that the strategies and transversal policies and the medium and long term must go through the parliamentary debate - that you have the fear of parliamentary debate! -, just as the operational plan should go through the parliamentary debate, because so we remove the colors of all the shortcomings and all the traps that conceal your speech. Therefore, the BNG will support this initiative. We tabled a series of amendments. The first one to create a crisis committee in the face of climate emergency; the second one in the creation of the Climate and Meteorology Agency, because it's not useful to have a general direction on the climate issue, as you have. A general direction dedicated to environmental quality and in addition to climate change is to develop urgent and necessary measures and policies in the forest field, in the field of biodiversity, in mobility or also in waste, to effectively combat climate change, and not to do what you are doing, which are promoting. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u119	Thank you, Mr Bará. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u120	Good afternoon. Let's see if I can get the attention of a part of the hemicycle, and, if not, of the people who see us through the streaming, because we're going to talk about climate change. Climate change is the most serious problem facing mankind. That is why we think that this initiative that we are going to support is clearly insufficient, as is the strategy plan of the Galician Union, which, as I shall say later on, does not come into being, firstly, to really reflect on what are the ways to deal with this problem, which, as I said, we consider the most serious thing facing all humanity, as it affects globalised economies, also the places and affects the ways in which life is being developed throughout the planet and, of course, here in Galicia. Climate change, moreover, is also a classic because it affects very differently depending on people's economic possibilities. The fight against climate change cannot only be dealt with as a technological issue, because renewable energies and new technologies, with fewer emissions, also need other finite materials and in some cases their extraction means gross environmental impacts, even higher than those of carbon products. Extractivism from carbon products cannot be replaced by other extractivisms. And we must also address it from an ethical and solidarity perspective and take advantage of this process to increase social justice and the better distribution of wealth. So climate change is also -- and in a very remarkable way -- for education, awareness, participation and public awareness. In order to achieve the radical transformations — these do have to be radical — that we will have to face the need for the social, professional, business and political majority to be fully aware of the gravity of the situation and to assume the changes in behaviour and consumption, which will be absolutely essential. We are fighting for the sustainability of life, this is at the heart of the matter; we are fighting for the sustainability of life, for a cultural change of what is considered a good life, for what is considered well-being. We have to change the paradigms of what good life is and what well-being is. It's possible to build a good life for everyone, but that's about reducing the use of energy, of materials, and reducing the global material footprint; obviously, much more to those people who consume much more than they own. We need to apply the principle of sufficientness with justice. It is urgent to think about how to rationalize economic metabolism, production and consumption. We are dependent — this must be very clear here in Galicia — on 80% of the energy, materials and food in other areas that are being exhausted from the planet. So we'll have to think sooner than later about the relocation of the economy. The future will be that of the autonomous countries in energy and food, and with a more efficient circular economy. All these proposals must be extensible to all people. It's very important to distinguish between green capitalism, which sometimes aims to cash out the disaster and which opens new ways of business for those who can afford it, and truly social ecology. But when it comes to the application of a program of social ecology, it must also be borne in mind that there may be proposals that are sound, but that, because they are not scalable to the majority of society, they would be inescapable or clearly unfair. According to everything mentioned, the general lines of truly effective long-term proposals should go for things like social pedagogy. The responsiveness of society to these issues is much higher than it might seem, though it starts with small actions that, despite their alleged inconvenience to the comfort of people, are generally a success, as it has just passed through plastic bags in supermarkets. Precisely preparing this intervention I've still been at the supermarket that I'm going to buy regularly and I've been told that the reduction in plastic bags was 90% since they started charging them a few months ago. People seem to be sensitized. We now have the initiative - which I commend to the Presidency of Parliament - of the bottles. In fact, within three months, we can say that the number of plastic bottles we use in this Parliament has gone down to half. And, yes, it's not worth filling in the recyclable bottle with the plastic bottle. Then there is energy efficiency and reduction of consumption, with particular attention to buildings, which consume 31% of total energy; electric transport, public mobility and the promotion of the shared vehicle -- needs to move from possession to use -- changes in eating habits. The current massive industrialization of food is inescapable, as well as the most consumed type of food. We need to dramatically change and reduce the ecological footprint of food transport, decisively betting on the supply of proximity, and the economy must be circular, of maximum efficiency, and betting decisively on the reduction of all waste. The best waste is not produced. From there, with all the knowledge we have, we have to see how to promote much more effective separation systems. It's very important to recover organic matter. This is a key factor for agriculture not to have to import from impoverished countries phosphates and nitrates. There is a need for a radical change in urban and rural development and the way states provide services, especially in rural areas; also criteria for adaptation to climate change, which, as much as we do, we can only mitigate it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u121	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u122	Thank you, president for giving me one more minute. In short, we must reconcile the basic relationships with nature because we have already surpassed the biocapacity of our planet. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no planet B, no land B. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u123	Thank you, Mr. Casal. For the Joint Left Group, Mr. Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u124	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. The problem well deserves some more time because we are faced with a truly serious situation, a climate emergency situation that requires a real and profound ecological transition in industry, agriculture, energy and transport; a transition that will only be possible and fair if it does not leave anyone behind, if it is on the side of the common people, if it is on the side of the working classes and not on the side of the electric oligopolie; a transition that will only be possible if we take silent measures, deep measures. In spite of this, we will support in this House, both in plenary and in committee, all those initiatives that involve progress both to curb the causes of greenhouse gas emissions and those dedicated to reducing the social and environmental vulnerability of the factors affecting the climate change cycle in progress. That is why, of course, we will vote in favour of this initiative which the Socialist Party brings today. To deal with the gravity of the situation arising from the current climate change cycle, there must be no single step back or a single hesitation on the part of political parties. We must be aware of the historical situation, of the civilization crisis. Only from the full assumption that there is a problem can we give the solutions that citizenship is demanding of us. That's why I ask the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party to do what they need to do to ensure that the irresponsibility of their former president does not lie back in an essential element of the country, to correct Mr. Aznar, the former president of his party and the spiritual leader of many and many of those who are here, who said a few weeks ago — he said a few weeks ago, in case they haven't listened to him — "You can't be threatening with him apocalypsis every day on account of climate change." I don't know if you agree that the situation isn't serious, as Mr Aznar says. The truth is that every time a former president of the People's Environment Party speaks about bread, whether Mr. Aznar or Mr. Aznar, taking away the importance of climate change, whether Mr. Rajoy or Mr. Rajoy, speaking of his cousin or brother-in-law. Let's hope not, let's hope you'll follow the right path, even if it's nominally, of not denying climate change or the gravity of it. The policies needed to deal with climate change require courage, the courage that is supposed to be faced with the powerful, which bring millions of benefits at the expense of balancing our environment. That's why Aznar, in that speech he made to take away the importance of climate change, said that the discourse of climate change was done to ward off our freedom. We understand that when he was talking about "shrinking our freedom" he was referring to Endesa, who pays him good dividends for his favors. Obviously, the fight against climate change undermines the freedom of companies that are waving our middle. The policies needed to cope with a deep but fair energy transition that keeps jobs are necessary to be urgently affected; policies that generate wealth in our country, without generating affections to neighbors and neighbors in our rural areas. That's why reform of the sectoral wind plan is also necessary. I urge the policies that affect the transport and mobility policies of this country, which we will also talk about at the next initiative, and that is why we need a rail network of proximity, an alternative mobility plan for Galicia, because what you've kept in a drawer is not important for you. We need a collective transport plan that caters to the needs of citizenship, not the real, continuous cover with which we've been ashamed for years. On the other hand, if the main generating vectors of climate change are the energy vector and the transport vector, we also need to know that the main vector of affect is the water vector. That's why they need to comply with the Water Framework Directive, which returns the dry law, which does not take account of the Water Framework Directive, which does not take into account the precautionary principle, which does not take into account the climate change situation in which we find ourselves and which takes at once seriously the sanitation of our rivers and rivers. And finally, to finish, we need policies that sink into a living countryside, into a living territory, forest policies that aren't at the fingertips of business lobbying and that don't turn Galicia into a green desert, betting on the multiple uses of the mountain, biodiversity and the native forest. In short, we need a firm administration to deal with all this much-needed ecological transition. That's why we're going to support this initiative and we're going to work to ensure that there's an administration in Galicia that's at the service of people who fight against climate change and don't continue to defend business lobbying. For our own sake, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u125	Thank you, Mr. Cal. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u126	Yes, good afternoon, gentlemen. Mrs Vilan, I think you're late for this initiative. But before we talk about the initiative, let me tell you that you're obsessed with the cousins of the others. I'm not surprised. It's no wonder that, being the Socialist Party, you're obsessed with your relatives. [[Applause]] Look, being the party of Carmela Silva's brother-in-law, being the party of the mayor's sisters, being the party of the daughter of the president of the Socialist Party and also having a president who is Mr. Caballero's nephew, since I am not surprised, his obsession is justifiable. [[Applause]] But, look, I understand that, besides, if apart from your obsession, we add that you can't sleep -- like half the country, which can't sleep, so we just met today -- because it makes it difficult for you to recognize reality -- a reality you paint, Mrs. Vilán, that doesn't fit what's really happening. And so the initiative - as I said - is late, just as that agreement is late, which has cost 200 million euros to all Spaniards, which has generated more than six months of instability, to end up doing, later, in 24 hours, what they were not able to do in six months, laughing at all the Greeks, laughing at all the Spaniards and generating great costs in terms of jobs and instability. But, of course, it's understood here that when you think politics is just a matter of strategy, of electoral tactics, because the Greeks make them lose 70,000 votes, as you lost them in these elections. Your Honor, you're late. The Galician Union has already approved the Welsh Strategy for Climate Change and Energy 2050, and this also highlights two ways of working: its, which is based on improvisation, occurrences and initiatives, only for marketing, selfie initiatives, and the other way of working that is based on rigor, work, planning, the participation of experts and the real measures that are placed in budgets. And, moreover, rigour, Mrs Vilán. You, if you were a little strict, instead of making shrapnels, what you would say, what you would remember, is that the country agreement has been signed by Mr. Rajoy; that was what you signed the country agreement, of what you assumed. [[Applause]] Look, he said that the Welsh Strategy is the best road map. In your first multi-annual development plan, you see 170 measures, an investment of 1,250 million euros, and you want us to approve, in view of this plan, an initiative that you are presenting with seven points, which in addition to either are already done or is already working on them. Mrs. Vilan, our plan, the plan of all the Greeks, has 170 measures, and you want us to sacrifice 163, because I understand that what you are doing with your initiative is to present a microplan of seven measures; sacrifice 173 to apply your 7. A little ambition, Mrs. Vilan. Normally, we're used to the opposition asking for the moon, but you, in this case, in haste, for doing that selfie, did everything contrary, asked for a miniplán that is a child, that does not fit into reality and in which, above all, many of the things you ask are already being done. The Block tried to help by adding a few more measures, but it didn't save its proposal. You're late, Mrs. Vilán. Galicia is in the vanguard, we are one of the first communities to have a guide to action on climate change. In fact, Mrs. Vilán, not a single community where the Socialist Party governs has approved roadmaps similar to ours. We could only say it was in Navarre, but you didn't even approve it, which was approved by that partner who now has a government. In front of their proposals, we cover all the programmes and structure around four major areas of action, mitigating greenhouse gas emissions, adapting our community to their impacts, investigating and innovating, and finally also taking into account the social dimension, governance and awareness-raising. Each of these areas has a series of objectives that have concrete measures, many of which are cross-sectional, and which involve almost all the departments of the Union of Galicia. Faced with its occurrences, the Strategy is the result of a genuine participatory process. 690 people from the different fields of the university, the unions, the administration have been working together in the last two years - two years that have been working. There was also a period of public exposure which was published in the DOG, in the Official Journal of Galicia, which was open between March and April to which any party could make claims, to which any party could make contributions. After all this work, you come...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u127	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u128	...with occurrences; a contempt for all these people who only worked for Galicia without getting anything in return. The Interdepartmental Commission has also been set up to coordinate and collaborate on climate change for all government administrative actions. In addition, you'll also be in charge of making a report that evaluates operational plans for the implementation and development of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u129	Thank you, Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u130	...strategy. What I do ask of you, besides, taking advantage of that you're here too, Mr. Knight's nephew, is to tell everyone...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u131	Knight, Knight; Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u132	...these mayors who are incorporated into the Mayors' Covenant. Now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u133	Thank you, Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u134	...there are 150, but there are many mayors of the...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u135	Thank you, Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u136	...that they're not, and that's the best favor you can do to our country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u137	You've finished your shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u138	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u139	For the motion's own group, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u140	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, I want to thank the groups for their support for this motion, which is probably incomplete. It's incomplete. I said they weren't exclusive measures. In fact, Mr. Trenor, you have to read, you say, "such as," and there are seven, but "such as" means there may be many more. You could have put some more and didn't. By the way, it's best not to talk too much about family. Well, for example, we don't know what the president's sister is talking about, or those relatives that Mr. Baltar has in Ourense province. [[Murmurs.]] Or, of course, are we to blame - as Mr. Fraga said - that our children are not as smart as the children on the right? It's true. There are relatives and relatives. [[Applause]] It's true! But, look, the problem is so big that there are women in Africa who sell their bodies to have water just because of climate change, that's not to joke about it. And there's one thing that's the "climately rejected", these women who are... in fact, you sometimes refer to them in the Commission's 1st initiatives. They're women who escape their country of origin looking for a better life because they're subjected to white trafficking. Well, just as a result of climate change, they have to emigrate from their country. When they get here, they find beings like Santiago Abascal -- what you're dealing with in Murcia, Madrid or Andalusia -- and thanks to that gentleman, at best, they have to go back to their country. You'll see if it's important.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u141	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u142	They don't get so angry, because we don't deal with VOX; those who deal with VOX are you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u143	Quiet. Quiet, please! Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u144	It's more... Don't be angry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u145	Quiet! A little quiet, which is still the thing we don't know how it's gonna end. Quiet, please. Not everything yet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u146	Don't be angry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u147	Calm down! Go ahead, Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u148	Moreover, we would like to know what measures of struggle, of mitigation against the climate crisis, are in Murcia, Andalusia or Madrid, promoted by this gentleman who speaks of "new trap of cultural Marxism". Maybe it would be nice if they asked him. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'll be late, it's likely, but you're late because I came here today to talk about the Government's pact in Madrid, probably, and you couldn't talk about it because there's already a pact, you've done it... sure, sure, because I know you well, Mr. Trenor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u149	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u150	He ran out of arguments, he ran out of arguments, totally. And you said things like: who wins the elections? or who voted in Galicia, who didn't vote? We have to be able to add: right, left, indeed. You have to be able to sum up, because if a sum, the bills don't come out, Mr. Trenor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You don't get out. No, they don't. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Finally, I...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u151	Quiet, please! About the amendment, too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u152	I don't know, really, I want to tell you that this election and democracy thing is that you all feel very bad, because they're overly nervous and nervous.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u153	Don't provoke them, because if you don't... you know it's easy to provoke them. Don't provoke them. [[Laughter]] If she provokes them, we don't leave her. You go to yours, which is the most important. [[Laughter]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u154	But no need to provoke anything like that. I just went out here to talk and look how they look.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u155	So don't do it, let's go there. About the amendment, about the amendment of the BNG, do you accept it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u156	On the amendment of the Group of the BNG, we accept point 8 and point 9...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u157	I'm sorry, I just don't know. Do you accept the point...?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u158	The 8th and 9th as an addendum to our motion. And it's a pity Mr. Trenor didn't make any amends to accept some of those hundred I don't know how many measures more than, apparently, he has his advisor put in a drawer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u160	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u162	We shall proceed to the vote on the motions. Close the doors, please. At the first motion, of the Joint Group, no amendments were tabled. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. Together, at the initiative of Ms Paula Vázquez Verao, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to budgetary expenditure in fundamental public services and the demands to be made by the Central Government in this regard. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 36; abstentions, 12. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u163	We are now voting for the Group of the Left's Joint Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Da Carmen Santos. The amendment to the Galician Nationalist Block is accepted. I don't know if there's been any deal. You had asked for a point vote. I don't know if you accept it or not. Please give a voice to Mrs. Novoa's chair. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u164	We wanted to request a separate vote on points 2, 3, 4 and 8.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u165	Do you accept? Give a voice to Mrs. Santos Queiruga's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u166	As we have already said, we will not accept voting points that only interest the People's Party. We have a full vote. Or they want it all... We're not going to accept only those who are interested in PP to avoid their responsibilities. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u167	No, he accepts; so then we vote. I do accept the amendment from BNG. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. Joint Left Group, at the initiative of Da Carmen Santos Queiruga, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the deficit of relief workers. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes in favour, 36. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u168	Finally, we voted for the Socialist Parliamentary Group at the initiative of Patricia Vilán. He said he accepted the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group in points 8 and 9 as an addendum. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Patricia Vilan Lorenzo, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Galicia in relation to the crisis and climate change. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes in favour, 36. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u169	The votes are over, open the doors, please. We continue with point 4 of the agenda, non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular, at the initiative of Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera and eleven other Members, on the requests to be made by the Government of Greece to the Ministry of Development in connection with the commitment made by the former Government of Spain to boost the road route between Vigo and the Porriño through the extraordinary road investment plan
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u170	There are amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mixed and Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u171	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Egerique has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u172	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Well, and a little bit of the collation of the last debate, the truth is that all members of the opposition will know that the territory that most light pollution has from all over Spain is in Vigo, ruled by the Socialist Party. That also has to be taken into account. We have today brought the debate to this House a non-law proposal that we have registered it for some time now, without knowing who would result from these elections, with the government of any colour, because we, from the People's Parliamentary Group, from the Council of Galicia, are always defending the interests of Galicia, the necessary infrastructures, regardless of the colour of the government resulting from the polls. So you know that when we included this LNP on the agenda, we still didn't know the results that would come out of November 10th. If we bring this PNL today in addition, because we consider it a necessity, we consider it as a priority that deadlines are being established and that progress is being made in the execution of the new highway once again drawn between Vigo and the Porriño, and more so when in recent months we have had serious doubts that the Government of Mr. Pedro Sánchez — today Pedro Sánchez and Paul Iglesias — had to rely on this infrastructure, because on two occasions already put it in doubt. So today we want that, with the unanimous support of the House, from this parliament, we can ask the Central Government to make this highway a reality. This is a strategic infrastructure for the Community. It connects Vigo to the A-52 highways, which is Ourense-Madrid, and A-55, which is the Portuguese border. A newly traced highway that will come to offer a functional alternative to the current A-55 motorway, which also supports a high volume of traffic and which also has a high index of sinisterity. Even the last news I could find is from November. The accidents grow in A-55 and until 2030 there will be no other highway — that is the press, I don't say it — because the government hasn't said any deadlines yet, it hasn't said how it intends to finance and drive this bus forward, and so today we want to request it as a priority in Galicia. A new highway, which is also expected to capture traffic around thirty-six thousand vehicles a day and which would undoubtedly have a remarkable increase in road safety and also greater comfort in displacements. I don't know if you all know that bus. It must be remembered that A-55, which presents a very high sinisterity, is a very dangerous highway with very dangerous curves — in fact. It was designed and executed by a socialist government in Madrid in the 1980s. Furthermore, the socialist mayor of the city of Vigo was part of that government, made one of the worst decisions — I think; it is one of the biggest black spots in Galicia — and it was taken when the current mayor of Vigo was in the Government. National 120, which was the exit of Vigo, decided to unfold it by economic criteria, and the truth is that it was a way out to Mos, also towards Porriño passing through Mos, and it remained a road that actually looks like a maze and still with difficulties and weather conditions, in addition to breaking up the village of Mos in the middle; that is, it's a highway that is one of those roads that shouldn't exist. That Socialist Party also recently is deriving all the money and all the investments in infrastructures to the east of Spanish territory, and, therefore, Galicia or case, Galicia or case. If we bring this initiative to debate today, it is also because this infrastructure is part of the Galician Agenda. As I said at the outset, since the Government of Galicia, a series of infrastructures and a series of fundamental and crucial investments are required for this autonomous community, which the Government of Spain cannot lose sight of, and therefore, I believe that all these subjects are known to you, because they have already been made public in October, when this agenda was presented for the next ten years. An agenda, as I said, has twenty-five more urgent matters; this bus is one of them. And so at that time, Junta developed and agreed, independently — as I say — what was the result of that already in the polls, because the configuration of the needs to be asked of the Government of Spain, always defending the interests of the Greeks, always with themes that affect the common good, always with themes that reach the present and future of Galicia. The execution of the new Vigo-O Porriño bus had already remained in the BOE — I have here in addition to a copy — in an infrastructure plan designed by the Government of Mariano Rajoy; here is the sheet, at which the plot appears at the third point, the variant of that plot. [[Mr. Egerique Mosquera shows a document.]] And so it was a new highway that was planned with an extraordinary investment plan, called PIC, which pushed — as I say — the Government of Mariano Rajoy and in what was the former Minister Íñigo de la Serna at its time making a series of necessary and essential investments with an investment of about five billion euros across Spanish territory, and this highway was integrated into that infrastructure plan. According to the government's own estimates at that time, the ICP had an investment of about five billion euros, it would allow more than two thousand miles of roads in four years. With this initiative, the Executive chaired by Mariano Rajoy sought to complete the pending sections of the trans-European transport network, adapt the main existing buses to the demands of the new regulation of sinequality, noise and emissions, and ensure the conservation of all the infrastructures that were built under this initiative. The country was leaving, planning necessary works and not playing with the voters, with the Spaniards, who send the polls and then come to a pact in twenty-four hours, something they couldn't solve in six months. It's just, really, it looks like a coat of hair. When the country left — I insist — as Galicia moves, the demands of the infrastructure were a priority, and according to the priority needs that the Union moved to the Spanish Government at its time, President Mariano Rajoy was committed to the inclusion in that extraordinary plan of that highway, with an investment of some 337 million euros. I insist: already in the BOE, because it's a fact, it's a publication, it's an institutional decision that you can all see, and that they don't walk with headlines or hollow phrases, but it's something that was completely committed. Sometime later, in September last year, and already with Mr. Pedro Sánchez in front of the Government, and being minister to the lord and flaming Abalos, the central government began to slide statements which have already sown doubts by that infrastructure plan. So we in the People's Parliamentary Group have already registered and drafted this initiative, so that they would not forget that this was a priority, because, as I say, the socialist leader of Vigo City said nothing and threw balloons out when Pedro Sánchez arrived to the Government, the difference from what he did when he was ruling Mariano Rajoy, who did nothing but ask for it. So we want to remember that in news reports also more recent, particularly at the beginning of June this year, we saw as finally the Government of Mr. Sánchez as it seemed to rescue for the A-7 between Crevillente and Murcia an infrastructure in that PIC, but it left this highway suspended; as always — as I say — looking east, as they also did with the port of Valencia, forgiving their debt; as they do with the infrastructures and with the AVE, always looking east and forgetting Galicia. So we are now not going to question them or tell them how to invest, whether through that plan or through budgets, but what we want today from this chamber is to demand that the new Spanish Government confirm with facts the commitment made by the Government of Mariano Rajoy to push and advance in the execution of that highway again traced between Vigo and O Porriño; that this performance is carried out — I insist — as necessary as it results. We hope that we will have the support of all parliamentary groups, but because we have had it on occasion. I remember here that with the Socialist Party Group, in particular, we reached an agreement and adopted a motion on this matter in March of last year; it was motion 26884, debated on 6 March 2018, and there one of the points was requested to urge the Board to request the Central Government a new plot of the A-55 between the Porriño and Vigo and that would connect with the A-52. So what I'm saying is that they're very fast asking when the Government is of the People's Party, but when it's of the Socialist Party and of the Podemos they're not so fast now. They would have found out, moreover, that in the text that we present, 2019, because I think they're still in time, that it's about an infrastructure that was already presented, and that it is therefore necessary to show in this case that we all agree that this is done here, and in addition to making it clear that Mr. Sánchez's government has no movement of a finger, no role, no euro to boost this necessary and strategic infrastructure. Therefore, three of the groups were amended. Interestingly, the Socialist Party did not present any amendments. I hope that I will support this infrastructure directly, and then we will discuss the amendments tabled by the other groups, but I believe that the theme in the text presented by the People's Parliamentary Group is quite clear, because it was already a commitment in the Official State Bulletin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. On behalf of the Joint Group, Mr. Villares Naveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u174	Good afternoon, gentlemen. Madam, it is very well explained — and we share the first part of the intervention — that is very well described, the situation of the road sinality of the infrastructure network that is currently communicating Vigo with the Porriño, the description of the needs — which we think is shared throughout the metropolitan area — and also a good description of the shortcomings and therefore also of the alternative that this new layout of the new plant of A-55. However, you have made a partial reference, nothing more, to the extraordinary road investment plan (ICP), which is through which this initiative is primarily structured, claiming an inheritance of the People's Party, which is that investment plan which, according to you, has manifested, as it would expedite procedures and deadlines to take forward this, because it is done in a forecast at the margins of the general budgets of the State. I think he should have stopped a little further in describing what was the PIC's proposal that brought the People's Party to our country; that is, a PIC that contemplated this investment outside the state budgets, that would be carried out through a concession and that would be done through a fee, possibly hidden or explicit. So, we want to make it clear to you that it is claiming the people's party's inheritance that the construction of peas infrastructures is done in our country, that it clearly tells us if it seems to you that the AP-9 is already little known and if it seems little known to you about Vigo's metropolitan area that, in addition to the already vigilant one, they still had to stop a new toll or that we had to pay secretly in a toll in the shadow. So you'll have a chance to do this, you might be able to do something about it. We, of course, with that configuration, as it comes to your non-law proposition, do not agree. I think you were fully right when you said that this was drafted before you knew whether or not there was going to be a change in government and, therefore, you were prepared to face any government of the People's Party if you could face this type of investment by imposing the fee. Well, now tell me if there's gonna be or there won't be... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, they had a chance to make that clarification. And for that reason, and for no doubt whatsoever, two things. The first, which we support this infrastructure, because it seems interesting to improve mobility in the metropolitan area, but at the same time — because we do not want a new sablazo for the Vigo metropolitan area and therefore no fee, no explicit or covert -- we present an amendment, and the amendment is to delete from its operative part the mention that makes "through the extraordinary plan of investments on roads, as was planned, or, if so,..." and then leave the rest of the operative part as it is. We think it must be taken into account in the general budgets of the State, which is the regime where it must be the concessional provided for in the ICP, and therefore, if they have no problem doing so, they will have our support. Otherwise they won't have it, and they won't have it because we're not willing and willing to legitimize with our vote an infrastructure that's going to have a new payout for the metropolitan area, because we think it's enough, and so we're not going to have enough of the argument anymore. We believe the argument is clear. It's interesting to infrastructure, we think it's useful to improve mobility, but we consider it unacceptable that it could be exposed in such a way that one of the two options would lead to a fee-based construction, be either covered or explicit, into the metropolitan area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u175	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Mr. Bará Torres has the floor by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u176	I see the People's Group today a little cleared and upset, because they were begging the PSOE for a pact, a great coalition and it turns out that they went with another one, with another one. [[Murmurs.]] So, you're... you wanted to make a deal with the PSOE at all costs. [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u177	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u178	Well, we're just telling them one thing: that this agreement that was announced today amounts to 155, which is also a dangerous number. And we'll have to talk to more to get to 176. [[Laughter]] So there's still a way to walk. [[Murmurs.]] Take it easy. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Of course, Mrs. Egerique turns out that she's going to throw Vigo's light pollution into the Socialist Party — which is true — when they're going to make a counter-programming for even more light pollution in Vigo — they want to illuminate the Rande bridge, which doesn't reach them with all the light pollution there, Mrs. Egerique! You guys still want to pollute more. They don't get to Mr. Knight's, or Knight's, or whatever they want to call him, both of them. Well, speaking of A-55, in fact, is the most dangerous road in the state, which has the most sinister. There's a report from the Ministry of Development that speaks only at a kilometre point, 12 km, of 298 people injured in a three-year period. It's absolutely castastrophic. The design of the plot is a disaster, because it also divides by half the parish of Tameiga — all that area — where there is a real barrier that prevents the two sides of the road from communicating. And for what this road is, in any case, to collect, because I've been looking at the statistics on fines and it turns out that only in 2015 at that mileage point 12 there were more than eighty thousand fines — eighty thousand. I had to read the data several times because I thought it was impossible; but, indeed, it's a pickup machine for the brutal state. With all that money you should already give to make the project, to start it and to have it finished all these years. Because another thing that Mrs. Egerique didn't say, that she had a bad memory -- she must have taken some of those pills for memory. Yes, ginseng; I know you take ginseng... [[Mr. Egerique Mosquera speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u179	They don't dialogue. Continue, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u180	Yeah, not dialogue, not dialogue. [[Laughter]] [[Laughter]] It was that there was already a project under study in 2009, that you left in a drawer, and then you recovered that idea. And now there's also an environmental impact study project that's under treatment. What's wrong? Did you now remind yourself that you had registered an initiative a year ago and bring it here? So look, we want to tell you that we agree that there is a project, an alternative project is needed, which has to go largely in the tunnel, but we do not agree at all in the fact that you want to include it in that Road Extraordinary Investment Infrastructure Plan, because this is a public account looting operation for the banking business and large construction companies, who have been ordered by Mariano Rajoy to make that plan, because it turns out that there was a collapse in the procurement of public works and in the budgets of the Ministry of Development and they wanted that big business, because they are public-private financing works, these large companies, OHL and others, friends of the People's Party, who do the work, and then they charge the tap for thirty years 350 million a year. And what was worth 5,000 million is going to cost 10,500 million euros with that magic plan of the People's Party to fatten the bills of the big builders and the bank. That's why we don't pass, we're not going to approve an initiative that takes that expression. And the BNG is going to defend, therefore, here and in Madrid, in the State Parliament, that the money that has not been invested in the past years is recovered, more than two billion euros that have not been invested in Galicia. And also an investment plan for this country in infrastructures that have clear priorities. The railroad. It is essential to change the mobility model, to bet on sustainable mobility. And that's where the country's internal railway has to be the key. And also investments in road safety. And this is one of them. It has to be a priority, too. In short, we want to give them a boost, where we have representation, to these infrastructures, to this vial, to do it from state budgets and not from those formulas that benefit the bank and the large builders. And we also ask, through an amendment, a complementary measure, that would be the release of the peaage between Vigo and O Porriño, precisely to discharge traffic — which is one of the major problems you have, in addition to the plot — this infrastructure, with sixty-three thousand vehicles/day — which is a barbarity and which explains a lot of these accidents, also linked to the speed limit and the fact that much of this traffic is heavy traffic, because it is an area where there are many business parks — to compensate, correct and reduce traffic on this road. We hope you accept these amendments and we can reach a unanimous agreement on this fair demand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u181	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. On the part of the Joint Left Group, Mr. Cal Ogango has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u182	Thank you, President. Well, go paper, Mrs. Egerique. You come to demand that the new Government do what the Government of Mariano Rajoy has not done. That's what you came to say--my mother, who changed today, my mother, who changed today!--That's what you said here: what the Government of Mariano Rajoy did not do because the new Government does, because precisely the Government of Mariano Rajoy was the Government of the paralysis of investment in infrastructures in Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] And that's why you came here to assume a role, because it's the only one who can teach of the seven years of Mariano Rajoy's government; a role that says he's going to do something. It's the only infrastructure thing the People's Party can assume. And if not, you have a replica that you can come here to presume of the investments of Mariano Rajoy, not of a role, of real investments that the Government of the People's Party had made during the years of Mariano Rajoy's government. Let's see if there's any, because I don't think of anything happening to me in the infrastructures inside our territory. Of course, they need alternatives in this plot. We're talking about a road that concentrates a lot of accidents. The 12th kilometre of this highway is the most accident-related kilometer, more sinisterly than the entire state road network. We've been with this data for so many years, seven years, without doing anything at all. As you would see, we make an amendment, because we understand that this infrastructure may be necessary, but if we put in place a number of alternatives maybe it isn't. That's why I stop explaining a little what our proposal is. Clearly, we need to change our mobility model. We spoke at the previous initiative to address the ecological transition, where transport and infrastructure are a very important part of this transition. So we understand that we cannot consider actions that have to do with mobility without prioritising those that are most sustainable. We understand that if collective transport is in place and if it is dynamized, the forms of sustainable transport of collective transport, in rail and road transport, many of these vehicles that are currently circulating along this road would cease to circulate, because we understand that citizenship would welcome effective collective transport, which can facilitate mobility and bring it to those places where it needs to take the motor vehicle without need. For a question of sustainability, which we have an increasingly conscious society, but also for a question of security, because in Galicia we know the problem that this has in our country, the fallacy and mortality on the roads, and also for a question in terms of comfort, to avoid jams, search for parking, leaks in the form of damage and other. So if we put in place effective collective transport, in addition to being sustainable, we understand that citizenship would also use it. And this position is backed up by some of the data. As soon as the Atlantic axis was set up and a number of improvements — insufficient, as we know, — were introduced, their use was greatly increased. So if we push the modernization of the southern exit, we improve frequencies and schedules, we understand that a lot of people in this route would also use the railway and not use this road. On the other hand, we also have another proposal in our amendments, which is the release of AP-9 -- as the BNG spokesman also said. We're talking about building an alternative route to this plot. We've already had a high-capacity alternative route to this trace, which is AP-9, and it's already built. And the most effective thing is to release AP-9, because maybe it wouldn't be necessary to invest money in this new infrastructure. An investment of around 400 million is estimated for this new infrastructure. Itinere recently sold his AP-9 operating rights -- pulling off the top -- for 600 million. So it was just like it made sense to do a study of how much it costs to get AP-9 back, because for a little more than those six hundred million we would not only have a plot between the Porriño and Vigo, but we would have a plot that would circulate all over the Atlantic axis. And so, in addition, we'd end up with an AP-9 scam, which the Ministry of Development itself calculated would cost the Greeks and the Greeks until the end of their 14 billion-dollar concession. So we should consider recovering it to save all this money and maybe saving the construction of this new infrastructure as well. Therefore, in our amendments we ask the Government of the State to conduct a study of how much it costs to recover to the public AP-9. Since the Government of Galicia has already said that it does not want to do so, we ask the Government of the State to do so — if you agree with this, I understand that it will not agree with everything else, but if you agree with some questions we can incorporate it — that the money devoted to this new infrastructure will add to recovering AP-9. [[Murmurs.]] To prepare a study that we're working on the AP-9 would need to be reinforced, because maybe this one would also need it, but first we have to explore the rest of the alternatives.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u183	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u184	Create the Galego Transportation Table and push the south exit. Well, a number of sustainable measures to improve mobility in this frame. For our own sake, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u185	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Mr Álvarez Martínez has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u186	Thank you very much, Madam President. Well, he went out to speak to the plenary in this case of this highway, the Vigilante section of the Galician Parliament. And as the mayor of Vigo was talking about pollution before, because we talked about light pollution or we talked about being a minister of the Government of Spain when the national 120 was unfolded and became to give better exit at that time, of course, and that breakdown of that national, that highway, which, indeed — as was said here by all those who preceded me — is of the most dangerous in the whole state, and therefore obviously requires a solution. But, Mrs. Egerique, let's make some memory. In 2017, at the end of 2017, the Ministry of Development at that time approved a road map for the Porriño-Vigo, Vigo-O Porriño, at the cost of 169 million euros. This data is relevant: EUR 169 million. A high-complex plot—like all those from there know better than those we occasionally do—and which handled up to ten different proposals—and within these ten proposals, twenty-three different combinations—to give the final plot to that new highway, which had a length of 10.3 kilometers, and with a tunnel of 2.8 kilometers that would cross that high Puxeiros, between Vigo and Mos. Okay, all right. In February 2018 the President of the Government — at that time Mr. Rajoy — introduced a new project, but things have happened in the middle. Things have happened like Mr. Rajoy was president of the Government during two legislates, one of them incomplete, but since December 2011, since December 2011, Mr. Mariano Rajoy has been president of the State Government. And, of course, what budgets have, among other things, must be published in official bulletins. And in 2016 — Mr. Rajoy's Government — on the Vigo-O Porriño highway was the end date of 2017, and an investment for that year 2016 of 6 million euros. Nothing. In 2017 — Mr. Rajoy remains president — figure for the Vigo-O Porriño bus, with completion date — yes, a year later, what is now n+1, i.e. we are correcting a unit to the date we put in the previous budget — 2018, and an budget of 2,438,000 euros. Nothing. And as nothing and nothing else — since we're talking about sums — has been nothing, or zero plus zero has been zero, in 2018 Mr. Rajoy, President of the Government, presents the Vigo-O Porriño frame within this extraordinary road infrastructure plan, which was actually equipped with five billion euros and which was going to solve it by doing works in about two thousand miles of length. I strongly ask you to check out the hemerothecs, since you have so much trouble with a diversion of funds towards the State Levante, which you can see for which part most of these five billion euros went, to see if you have to make some small correction, or less -- which has been the same thing as the largest -- in your argument of the diversion of funds to the Spanish Levante. Well, here we are, in February 2018, the President of the Government, Mr Rajoy, accompanied by the Minister of Development — at that time Íñigo de la Serna — and the President of the Board of Galicia — at that time and at this moment Mr Feijóo — including photography — photobook, or phototape, as much as I have — present this infrastructure, by concession. I mean, it's going to be done what's called shady toll and it's going to go from the original 169 million euros to a cost of 337; therefore, it's going to double clearly the planned investment. And these are the numbers. And, of course, of course, all that paraphernalia had no contrast in state budgets, because it was extraordinary. And what did the Government of Pedro Sánchez do at that time? Fix it. At no time was it denied that this infrastructure had been done, at no time, and I strongly challenge it to check the hemerotheque. What was said by Minister Abalos is that we were going to do that infrastructure but through the budgetary way, that is, get it out of that extraordinary compliment and do it by ordinary compliance, that is, in the budgets. And that's what he is, and that's the commitment of the Government of Spain. He was and will continue to be, he didn't have the slightest doubt. I don't have time to talk, but you know what were the budget compliance figures in the years 2015, 2016 and 2017 of the Government of the State with Galicia, regrettable. They left behind 1,730 million euros. In any case, and in order to clear him any doubt, uncertainty or even tension that he might have with respect to the meaning of our group's vote, it is against him that we will vote in favour of his initiative, because he obviously puts something which is common sense, which is by the budgetary way. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u187	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. For the author group of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Egerique Mosquera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u188	Thank you, President. Of course, Mr. Álvarez, it is in our text — Mr. Villares — that you put Vigo-O Porriño — Mr. Álvares and Mr. Villares, I am sorry, to tell you both at the same time — through the extraordinary road investment plan, as was planned, or, if so, by the budgetary route. I said the reason for this debate was not how that bus is going to be done. Yes, there was a plan with Mariano Rajoy's Government; if that plan is going to be repeated, that's why I also say the theme of Mr. Abalos, the Ministry of Development, because he was talking about the Crevillente-Murcia bus I spoke about earlier. So if you're going to take a budget, it seems great if your commitment is. Now, of course, Mr. Álvarez, I don't know if you're going to have to consult with Mr. Cal the vote, now they're going to have to agree to vote, it's not going to be that one says one thing and the other one says the next and then we're out of line. [[Murmurs.]] Because look, Mr. Villares, you're talking about a hidden toll, and no, there's no hidden toll. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] This is the plan that was perfectly and transparent on the table to make it kind of infrastructure. If Mr. Álvarez says that there is a commitment to make it budgeted by the Government that will now leave the polls, for great, to make that bus. And, Mr Bará, you sometimes have arguments: for Pontevedra, yes, with certain roads, and for Vigo, no. I mean, you're also on the subject of sometimes territory -- or I don't know if I've misunderstood it -- but you put here the freeness of the beach between Vigo and the Porriño as an alternative of saturated mobility, but I think this is not a subject -- that we could bring the debate -- that doesn't solve and doesn't have to do with Porriño's highway, because, for example, there's no access from AP-9 to A-52, for example, without passing through that highway. I mean, it's another problem or something else that we can have in the south, but it doesn't come the collation right now in this debate, because I wouldn't serve much of the direct traffic between Vigo and El Porriño what you say. Mr. Cal, you bring here I think a number of points. I think it could also be your argumentary now in the elections or to ask the Central Government, because the truth is it's a series of infrastructures that I think also don't have to do with exactly this highway. You can now, in addition to being in the Government, ask the president and the vice president to do what you believe. The most important thing about this issue and what we want to ask today is that you do that bus and that alternative that gives you access — as I say — to A-52 and A-55, which is fundamental to Vigo. You said — I said it for allusions — that we were altered. I'm not upset, but I have to say I'm a little worried, because you, both Podemos and PSOE, have taken forty-seven million Spaniards to polls, winning with a hidden pact they just signed in twenty-four hours, something they couldn't do in six months. I'm saying it from this gallery because today I don't know what would look like to all your voters, besides — I insist —
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u189	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u190	...losing votes from both the Socialist Party's bench and the Podemos bench. Let's hope the Government does this highway, which is what brings us here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u191	Thank you very much, Mrs. Egerique. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela and da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of health management
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u192	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u193	To formulate the motion not of law, Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u194	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. We're talking about health in an afternoon when we're all talking about some things, but we're all thinking about something else, and it's okay that we all have an opinion, even — as we just said — that there are people worried that they don't obviously share some political positions. From the Socialist Party we're also worried, because we're talking about health, why it's legitimized, whether it's valid, even if it applauds and deals with those who say some atrocities, like that health is losing a lot of money to care for immigrants, or because this public health would improve if we told some people who are sick that it doesn't respond because it has a different skin color or some nonsense like that, that there are parties that validate, that there are parties that applaud and that there are parties that agree. And that's the health problem too; that's also the one, not only, but also that one. [[Applause]] Yes, it is legitimate to be concerned about different things and therefore it also shows us who we are and who we stand for, and we defend a public system, universal, free and of quality and, above all, universal. No one's illegal, none. And there's primary care -- that's one that has to care for the people who need it, which is demanding an improvement in their conditions. There's a primary care strike called, optional and optional, for this end of the month, and for us it serves as a start of question. Why do they call for a professional health strike, especially in primary care? Even in this month we usually hear that this is better than ever, that the situation is fantastic, that health is immeasurable and that here little less than the one who complains goes against the system and against a whole bunch of benefits and kindness. Why? For sport or because they don't have a job, they'll be vague; as some of the mayors of the People's Party say, there's waiting lists because the professionals are very vague. For from our point of view it is by an analysis that professionals do and that we probably share almost in all, and that many collectives share, which is basically based — let me make this explanation — in this critical situation that we have, which is not current; it is current — let us say — but it is not caused only at present, but it has to do with a little history these ten years, ten years and something, of Feijóo governments. Because it is not excessively redundant but because it mentions three data: budgets submitted, which are still under discussion, 1,400 professionals less in primary care, at least 1,360 — if I do not fail my accounts — less in primary care than ten years ago; in budget there are 1,360 — I believe that is the exact data — less in budget. Based on the criterion that it's very important that when there is a public professional who should be paid with public funds it's good that it's collected in budgets, we wonder why in primary care there are 1,300 professionals less budgeted than ten years ago. Despite hearing that Mr. Feijóo, today we learn that you can say "professional defamator" — I think you can say — that there are 1,500 said once, 1,800 said later, 2,400 said later... usual figures, that we have more in health care, but, despite that, budgets say no. So if they don't pay for the air, tell us what they're paying for. There are those professionals less, there are one hundred and fifty million less — by rounding the figure — in primary care this year ten years ago; an accumulation of two billion euros in ten years, two billion euros less in health than ten years ago. And we stop asking this community, which has recruitment problems, primary professionals, we no longer ask one hundred and fifty MIR training places for community family doctors, one hundred and fifty professionals, of which about 70%, so it has to do with the dates, would already be formed. We would have something more than a hundred professionals already trained in Galicia today. Do they cover all the needs? Not all of them, but they cover a lot. Why do we stop asking professionals? Because the cost, being some, is not excessive and it is very assumed and it is a bet of the future, because basically because it is a plan carried out with surgical precision — if you allow me to. We don't think anyone wakes up one morning and decides, "Let's destroy the health system." No, it doesn't make sense, nobody gets up. But if we say one thing: you can't blow and snort at once, and when a cut in public health ends up going through this, and, therefore, you can't defend public health but cut it off. So, doing more with less is a milonga. The least I think is Pablo Casado, who celebrates losing the elections, but more with less is a milonga; the more it is done more, the less it becomes less. And so it's important that we know that you can't cut down and say you defend yourself. And the management of scenarios of this council also contributes to the fact that public health professionals, especially now primary professionals, are upset. Look, there's been a tragic and lamentable situation in Dozon recently. The response of the Government of the Union: to announce here by Mr. President, to announce, even with an unappropriate tone, something which is not true. Because he's not what he announced. That ambulance that the People's Party promised medicalized doesn't exist. A lamentable event has happened on the Road a little longer. Government Response? Nothing, nothing changed. They didn't talk to anyone. There were more than nine months of strike from the CAPs, they had to come to a final agreement that now does not meet. I'm resigning service heads in the primary care Vigo area, almost all of them, over 80%. Government response at that time: disagree with them, attack them, shoot them at them, little less than tell them they were manipulatable and drunk. About the demonstrations that citizens make, big, notorious, in the streets, what does the People's Party say? People go because they pay for snacks and buses. What are the casualties in the health centers? Mr. Feijóo says you can't organize a system when there's 17% casualties in a health center; a professional in a six-year health center. Allow me. I'm going to tell you: today there's not even 16% of the government here and we're not going to say that's a horror for the system. A professional was missing from a health center, a health center of six colleges was missing one, and Mr. Feijóo said here in this plenary: one cannot organize a system when 17% of professionals are missing from work; one. And that kind of management is what professionals say that is being a frontal attack — and that's it. There was a good measure in all this -- it's true -- a good measure, but it was brought by the Government of Spain: the call of the greatest MIR of history next year, empowered by the Government of Spain. By the way, they call all the squares that haven't been able to say they're going to be called, they don't leave unconvened squares, they don't stop forming professionals who need us, they call all the squares. Through this situation, the People's Party perceives a problem and says it will change the model. Changing the model I thought I'd make a lot of papers, call some professionals, not all of them; call some specialties, not all of them; do a lot of papers, elaborate a lot of conclusions. What do the professionals say? That nothing is seen, that nothing is perceived, that there is no change. It's talked about 102 million euros for health care, but then it started to put some but: if they're in three years, it's actually the increase that already existed; basically, nothing, nothing. So you spread a model -- yes, it's okay -- but it's not possible to make anyone believe that they're going to bet on something they don't believe. But they should say, that it's much more productive and we can come up with much more productive issues. We defend other issues. In this proposal that we bring here today we advocate opening new spaces for dialogue, because we believe in a more open model, in a model that thinks the focus should not be as it is now, saturating the optional professional, which is what happens now, which is focused on the doctor, but must be focused on the patient, and that should allow the patient to have many services in primary care, which can diffuse work among all specialists. And so we must have and incorporate many more fixed ones, incorporate psychology officials, logos, social workers, incorporate more administrative ones. Yes. Someone from the People's Party intended that this might seem like an absurd thing that we proposed from the Socialist Party. Yes, more administrative, because almost 30% of the work a primary doctor does today is administrative and, therefore, if we free those professionals from doing that work and we put administrative trained specifically in health care, we can free up work so they can devote themselves to the most clinical field. So all this is possible, a work of more multidisciplinary nature. The resources are needed to make more personal, which is the essential problem: more personal, more personnel that existed and that we formed, but that goes away. Why? Because we have the worst working conditions in Spain. And that goes away and that's why there are many professionals trained in Galicia who are in Portugal and many in Britain. And so when they want to stabilize their lives, they end up doing it out of Galicia, and they can go out of Galicia to other autonomous communities, but they don't come here, because they want to make a stable life. And a year, two, four, five... can stand, but you can't endure it all your life thinking you have to do -- as we see these days -- contracts every fifteen days, contracts every week. Moreover, when the Sergas denounces himself, he does the sad task of accusing the professionals he has done. Sad and pathetic what Sergas did trying to deny a professional of the system that had his contracts on the table, regrettable and pathetic. Anyway, that's where we want to work...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u195	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u196	This multidisciplinary model can be a possible continuation and an allocation of more resources that we hope will be possible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u197	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u198	The Government of the People's Party has promoted a model that has failed, and since they're in the time of discount, try...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. You have another turn later. Mr. Torrado, I was not in the debate but I understand, so the members of the table told me that the defamatory one was removed. I'm sure, after you listen to him, his tone also removes him. [[Murmurs]] No, he's retired. I understand you do. In any case, I ask you to withdraw it and I'm sure you accept it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, we're taking him out. If you don't take it off, we take it off. It's done, it's retired. We followed the debate. Thank you. The Joint Group has the floor to Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u200	The first is to say that we are going to support this initiative, in fact, we have already supported others in the same direction. And we agree with the relevance of presenting it today because, in fact, the conflict in primary care continues and is confirmed because professionals are fed up that this dialogue does not fit into commitments. We have had years of primary care at the center of health conflicts, both by the staff, saturated, and by the citizenry, which is manifested by the lack of pediatricians. We have these days, in the territory of Ferrolterra, the staff of the CAP that cannot solve their shortcomings, and we are continually seeing that the professionals feel nilted because there was this dialogue, there was this step to create the Technical Council of Primary Care, there were these tables of dialogue and integration of professionals, but they feel totally none. The work should be done and, above all, they should already be shaped into compromises and advances, but the reality is that, in the end, it's a facewash and a ball roll ahead. We tabled the amendment because we understood that what the Socialist Group is asking for is to integrate all those people who were working at the work tables; if not, it is the same, the case is to integrate all the expert people who were participating in and dialogue in the open dialogue tables for primary care and, above all, that there is a temporary commitment to put those proposals into effect and those advances. The reality is that it's often said that "what are not accounts, are tales," so, seeing the 2020 budgets, it's seen that primary care falls by 9.88 percent with respect to investment in 2009, is that one hundred and forty-four and a half million euros less, and the increase in squares is insufficient. In fact, in staff spending we see this tremendous disparity in the Council between the specialist and primary: 71.6 percent is staff spending in the specialist and 28.4 percent in the primary. The increase in squares is insufficient. There was a cut of professionals that can't be reversed and the essential thing is to meet these demands, because the quality of the system lies in primary care, in that staff have dignified working conditions that allow them to have enough time to pay attention to citizenship, and that these demands are accepted as much as limiting the number of patients per day as not having to devote themselves to administrative activities. We also understand that it is a patch for changing the staff framework rather than regaining the structures of primary care, and, above all, the question that there was an opportunity in these budgets to begin to visualize that the dialogue with experts on primary care was taken into account, and not plasma. That's why we're going to support the motion. Amendments are technical issues, just like the fact — which we always say — that in order to increase staff it is necessary to have absolute transparency in order to be able to plan; transparency in terms of the number of staff at each centre, distinguishing between fixed and possible. There's a lot of lack of transparency in Sergas. In this sense, this is one of the union demands, to know exactly the retirement forecasts. Of course, also, incorporating other professionals into primary care, from psychological care, physiotherapy, social work, and really doing strong primary health care, which involves prevention and public health, which will also reduce investment in other areas of health. No more, we support the motion, regardless of the course of amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u201	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez Verao. We now move on to the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. You have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u202	Good afternoon. Since we are all so happy and festive and we are coming so high, I will also begin by doing good practice purposes, Mr. Torrado, and since he began by saying "in defense of universal and free public health" because to see if that Royal Decree is then repealed 16/2012, which was what eliminated universal and free health, instead of having done that wrong patch to him......with the Royal Decree 7/2018, and there really ceases barriers to many collectives, that they continue to be, and that good intentions of the paper pass into reality. [[Applause]] And coming to primary care, alarms about the situation of primary care are still fully lit, right? We can't help but see statements from professionals that, months after adopting this theoretical primary plan, they don't see any improvements, they don't see that going from statements to reality. They've seen a renewal of computer equipment, but little more than that. We are, indeed, in full debate of budgets and budgets are the instrument, the tool, with which a government acts to change things, and there seems to be unanimity in that primary care was not right and that there had to be action: a plan of improvement of primary care, creation of work teams, teams of experts, I don't know how many measures, ah!, but the budgets are coming, which is when to put white on black, and it turns out that the thing is leaking there! What do the budgets that the People's Party Group Government has presented for the year 2020?, because the primary care budget follows 148 million euros less than ten years ago, 148 million euros less than ten years ago! And not only for pharmaceutical expenses, Mr. Núñez Centeno, and not only, no, no. Ten years later, 148 million euros less stopped investing, accumulated. If it had been investing the same amount as in 2009, not increasing, it would have had to have invested 2,300 million euros in these years, and with that money, the primary care situation would not be what it is currently being. What do the budgets say? That in primary, it increases by 3.74, and of staff, in general, by 3.4. If it turns out that you have to increase a 2.2 per increase of all staff, which is the salary increase, and that's where you have to increase the second term of your career, what's going to increase for the increases of the professionals you're demanding? There isn't. The reality is, there isn't. There's still an increase in computer equipment, but not personnel. There is no increase in squares, there are no departures to that commitment by the People's Party that the conclusions of the working groups would be taken into account. And of course, beyond the philosophical exposition that "we're all very concerned with health" I don't know how without budget increases these increases will be made effective in the staff framework; how they're going to increase or create multidisciplinary teams, which is one of the issues that is being pretended: how psychologists, psychologists are going to be introduced; how they're going to increase physiotherapists' paintings; the inclusion of speech therapists, occupational therapists, social workers; how they're going to increase these staff paintings, how they're going to be introduced, how these multidisciplinary teams are going to set up that trigger the schedules of the optional staff and also of nursing. I, without money, don't know how they'll do it! What proves they won't. They've never been so saturated with primary care, they've never been so worried. The overload remains 40, 50, 60 patients. They know how the shift starts and they don't know how they're gonna end... We have said on many occasions that structural problems are solved only by structural decisions and not by cosmetic solutions, starting with decision-making capacity, execution, decision-making...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u203	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u204	...and budget for primary care. And what the People's Party has done for the moment — Mr President, it's a change in the DOG, they have changed the nomenclature of directors of income or no income from primary and hospital heads. Name changes do not solve problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u205	Thank you very much. On the part of the Left Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Solla Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u206	Thank you, President. It is indeed necessary to take seriously health and personnel planning. We are still engaged in a budgetary debate right now, and already in the appearance that we had a couple of weeks ago in the Committee on Economic Affairs, we have moved that numbers, as we have just moved here — worth redundancy — by other spokesmen of the opposition, do not, of course, evaluate a possible increase of staff, within primary care, but in the global of the Galician Health Service. Not only because the loss of social investment is remarkable within the Government of the Galician Union in the last ten years, but because health loses points in relation to GDP — we moved it to the committee — but now it represents 6.05 when more than ten years ago it was 6.63. Furthermore, by an element that is related to this initiative, and is that the weight of primary care in relation to hospital care remains significantly lower than it should be in a budget for a model that was based primarily on the prevention and promotion of health. In addition to this -- it has moved here -- a series of dialogue tables have been announced to discuss the primary care we advocate that they were called to demobilise protests from both the continuing and the primary care points; to demobilize those protests because of course it was negative for the Government of the People's Party. It was to sit at a table where, in fact, those measures, or those possible points of agreement, would not, in any case, be before the preparation of the budgetary exercise, and therefore when we have on the table the budget for this year, the surprise is that there is a continuity. In the case of departures allocated to primary care personnel, the statutory staff, the officials, we already said that the increase that was very small, about five percent in primary care -- if I don't remember bad -- and that it wasn't enough if you wanted to address all those things that the People's Party announced. The People's Party had announced that there were going to be ups, it had announced that the rest of the career would be paid, and all that was incompatible with increasing staff because it is clear that the increase in departure is so small that it is not enough to answer all these issues. So we can understand from these numbers that are offered to us, except here to the autonomics, and as a pre-election announcement, if we decide on the part of the Galician Council to announce a credit change or an extension of these budgets, that the reality is that on the role that we have does not have to solve the problem that we could characterize — I believe — of crisis in primary care personnel. And I have to remember, in relation to pediatric care, that there are a couple of comarcas, such as the district of Ferrolterra and several areas of Ourense province, that they continue to mobilize today—there are many more, but these are massively mobilized—because there is a very serious problem that I think is the basic rights of citizenship and, in this case, of the children and children of this country. Unfortunately, despite the fact that we have been discussing this issue for a long time in this House, both in the plenary and in the Committee on Health, and that the Union has also announced that it wants to take action, the reality is that there has been no effective measure since then and therefore we are in a situation of absolute stagnation. We have long warned of the need to form more MIRs, we also warned of the need to move or try to bring the professionals who go because of the precarious work we have here, long before these strikes started, because the debate of this legislation has taken a long time, and we have not wanted to take any kind of measure. It is clear that, even if we had taken at the beginning of this legislation, we would not have any immediate outcome yet because professional training takes time and attracts professionals it takes time. But it's obvious that with the retirements we have, the longer it takes us to take steps to go and supply these professionals the more advanced the deterioration of attendance. I'm going to finish. As for the continuing points of attention, which are cited again in the initiative, there was news this past week that Pontevedra and Salnes' continuing points of attention reported ninety incidents of discovery, for lack of staff, only since June, and this is an example. And we've been debating in the health committee on multiple occasions that this is one of the most problematic neighborhoods. This directly impacts the right to health care and, as already appointed here unfortunately, we have some fungal results on the table that we do not want — I think no one here — to repeat again. We will support this initiative. We could discuss the percentage of budgets because we're all making amendments to budget processing, but we think it's more important that an agreement exists...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u207	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u208	...about the need to sit down and talk about a question that goes beyond the limits of the political organization's position and that is true in the primary care of this country: we have a crisis as to the lack of staff. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u209	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. For the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mr Núñez Centeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u210	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Mr. Torrado wanted to talk about health, I wanted to start talking about health. I'm concerned as a medical professional for the health of Mr. Pedro Sánchez. We don't know if you're going to resist four years without sleeping or if you're going to have to take high doses of short-acting hypnotics. [[Applause]] In either case, I don't think that citizenship will benefit and I also think that the Socialist Party needs a lot of Sesame Quarter: we need to know what it is to "go up", "go down" "do it better", "do it worse", "wine", "lost" and even "mast." [[Laughter]] We must also learn to draw. [[Applause]] Today Mr. Torrado brings here an initiative which is resesse; it is absolutely overpassed, and he did not refer to it for anything at all in his exhibition. For example, does he talk about the outbreak of the CAP, which is resolved, and how did that strike be solved? Resolved with negotiation, not with taxes. He negotiated, resolved, and disclaimed. He's also talking about mass demonstrations. I think anyone who checks the hemerothec will realize that these demonstrations are not so crowded lately, right? On the same initiative it is clear that the measures taken in the reformulation of primary care were limited and their impact was not perceived. This initiative was registered in June this year, six days after the establishment of the fifteen sectoral commissions agreed upon by the members of the Technical Council for Primary Care. In six days, of course, it seems hard to get results or demand them, but it seems that they, Mr. Torrado in this case, wanted to anticipate the failure of this technical committee or the expert group. Indeed, it also says in the initiative that they participated in the committees or committees of experts on health policies developed by socialist governments and progress. The Health Council is not a sectarian, Dr. Bengoa invited them — I think they refer to him. Dr. Bengoa was indeed a health adviser to the Basque Government in a socialist government which, always forgotten, was supported by the People's Party and by UPyD. It's so different! The difference is considerable! But also that same doctor Bengoa participated as the general director of a nationalist government in the Basque Country, he was an adviser to President Obama, but he also participated in the preparation of the April report, a report that had an impact and had very important criticisms. I don't know if this gentleman is a socialist, if this man is a nationalist, if he is an American democrat, he manifests himself absolutely independent at the political level. In an interview with this person, who is a well-known expert in Spain and the world, Dr. Bengoa says that "The solution we seek in Galicia will serve all over Spain" and assures that "Galice has been one of the first to claim a new care model". I mean, the problem is national and Galicia is getting together to find solutions. [[Applause]] But it seems a lie, too, to claim Mr. Bengoa and to refuse to be present in Mrs. Beatriz González's investigation commission, you all remember what was said about her! A lady who is another recognized prestigious expert who participated, or was proposed to participate, in an election list of the Socialist Party and who was also appointed a member of the Health Advisory Council in Spain by Minister Carcedo. They're socialist paradoxes. I do not want to speak of the Central Government's primary plan, without measures, without execution, rejected by all the collectives, rejected by unions, of which the coordinators have resigned, appointed for the same plan. I don't want to remember either that in the interterritorial councils, since Mr Sánchez's rule, he hasn't talked about primary care for anything, he hasn't taken a single measure to solve the problem. We're talking about the Valencian Primary Care Plan, 100 million for four years and five million inhabitants, compared to one hundred two million for three years and two billion for seven hundred thousand inhabitants of Greece. And you know, ladies and gentlemen, what was the budget increase for health in Valencia this year? 1%. In Galicia, 3%. Socialists, Podemos and Nationalists. [[Murmurs.]] Do you know what percentage of the budget dedicates to public health the community of Aragon, Socialists, Podemos, Chunta Aragonesista and PAR? 30%, 40.48% in Galicia. I know comparisons are hateful and they don't like it, I know, but I think one thing is to rule and another is to be in opposition, one thing is to preach and another is to give wheat. [[Applause]] But the initiative is also reiterated after the submission of budgets: one thousand three hundred million for primary care, 32% of the total; an increase of forty-six million, which is representing 9% for primary care, 9% for an annual increase, excluding the pharmaceutical benefit; an increase of one hundred two committed squares in the plan; a historic increase of the MIR squares of family, pediatrics and specialized nursing — said the adviser who was going to convene all the squares—
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u211	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u212	...?Finished, president or extension of the continuity contract. Now contracts are no longer a week or fifteen days, they're continuity contracts from 1 to 3 years. Look, Mr. Torrado, referring to the initiative, let experts and professionals work without political interference; experts and professionals know. The People's Party, of course, will wait for the conclusions of the expert group's work and for the development of the primary care plan's measures. And as far as budgeting is concerned, you're asking for 5% and this year's primary level increases by 9%. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u213	Thank you very much, Mr. Núñez Centeno. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u214	Thank you, President. I want to thank initially for the support shown by the Joint, Joint Groups and the Nationalist Block of Galicia. Mrs. Vázquez Verao [...], I think Amendment 1, as you proposed, is exactly what we have proposed. If the terminologically was not accurate, we do not consider it necessary because it actually goes to that point. We incorporate — yes – to two, which seems to us to contribute and is well, always enriches. Look if we're on a very curious day that here has spoken to everyone else. It must be a happy day, until the nationalists started talking about Madrid, that's, until it's an interesting day, you have to celebrate, and it's okay. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There'll be, of course, good news. I'm glad you're concerned about Mr. Pedro Sánchez' sleeplessness. I also hope they can move our concern about Mr. Suárez Islanda's health, which has disappeared in the campaign lately, or some questions so I don't know if they have to do it, right? But, in any case, we're still worried. He didn't say anything. You have lost, Mr. Núñez, a good opportunity to say something about the lamentable aberration that Abascal said of the immigrants, to see if anyone can say it!, because it is important that the People's Party somewhat discredit VOX ever. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But all right, I mean, you can... [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And then, if possible because...! Man! I saw Barrio Sesamo — I caught him a little later — but look, I don't know if they set this example, I'll put a very simple one for myself. See if they're capable of me: one hundred twenty is more than eighty-eight, right? One hundred and twenty is more than eighty-eight. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We're capable, aren't we? Yes, okay, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u215	Quiet. Silence! Mr. Trenor and Mr. Blanco. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u216	Of course! If there's difficulty seeing that one hundred twenty is more than eighty-eight, that's where their budgets come out, I also tell them! I don't know if they managed to steal a lot of VOX votes from the mailboxes, but -- look -- one hundred twenty is more than eighty-eight. Besides, we're going to make a deal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u217	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u218	If you agree with the election result, fantastic. So do we. We all agree. You're going to rule a government of progress, everyone agrees.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u219	Quiet. But what's the matter with them? Silence! Mr. Trenor, they go twice, I know you like to call him in order but they go twice. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u220	Thank you, President. If I may, there are some appeals here, and I brought up a question about Galicia. You spoke, Mr Núñez Centeno, of Valencia and the Basque Country. An appreciation of your... look, lately you've always brought examples of Valencian PP and Basque PP. Two things happen: you like Valencian PP and we don't like it, and we like something Basque PP and you don't like it. So you have to see something, too. He failed to talk about...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u221	Mr. Torado, stop now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u222	Yes man, now I'll shut up when they've spoken all the time!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u223	Quiet. Silence! Thirty-two seconds and you've already talked about the whole Spanish geography. You teach the students, then they tell them, and they complain. [[Laughter]] If you go to the initiative, I'm sure there's no problem.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u224	No, if you're going to talk more than I am.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u225	You're out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u226	Yeah? I'm done with the time? I can't even say what... nothing. If you think about it, we can still compare Greek health -- as you did here -- with Aragonese according to some criteria, with Valencian in others, with the Karolinska Institute that once mentioned me -- and I've been talking about Galician, and in Galicia, one hundred and forty million less a year ago than ten years ago, and there's a thousand four hundred professionals less than ten years ago. You couldn't talk about it and we kept talking about other things. So it's impossible for you to think it's necessary to improve our health. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. It's over, this time. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. on the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. José Luis Rivas Cruz and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in connection with the agreement of the Council of Galicia of 2004 on the final approval of the sectoral plan of the road network of the Coruña, Artexo, Culleredo, Cambre, Oleiros, Sada and Bergondo, as well as the draft layout presented by the Chamber Council in 2006
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u228	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u229	Mr. Rivas Cruz has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u230	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Politics must anticipate events, i.e. arbitrate solutions to the problems announced. The Coruña metropolitan area has long been announcing the need to articulate its space by road. Urban growth without design or coherent project and the network would be insufficient and chaotic announce a serious communication problem if it is not remedied. We therefore speak of the Way of the Coruña, Artexo, Culleredo, Cambre, Oleiros, Sada and Bergondo. The logic would be a cross-sectional knitting, with a vertebrate pathway of the metropolitan area, contacting the costless industrial polygons, which decongested the traffic of the city, avoiding agglomerations, and which also intercommunicated AP-9 with A-6 and N-VI. All of this should be the Ártebra road and the complementary roads. Thus, the 20th of September is published in the DOG for the final approval of the sectoral plan of the road network affecting the municipalities already mentioned above. He was a Territorial Policy Advisor, Mr. Nuñez Fexóo. The sectoral plan is born with the premise of being something more than an infrastructure plan, and for that it defines determinations of territorial intervention policy that compromise the documents that develop it. That is something else in economic and social revitalization of the metropolitan area, because at the previous meetings in which this sectoral plan is being cooked, these basic conditions are established: boosting business activity, improving intra-zonal accessibility that acts as a potent element of that activity; and increasing territorial balance and social cohesion. And, of course, one basic condition for achieving these purposes would be the liberalization of the fee. In order to enhance penetration through high-capacity pathways such as AP-9 or A-55, it is considered necessary to liberalise the toll in the sections of the study area. In turn, the permeabilization of the Atlantic highway, through the new links, would provide greater accessibility to areas such as Alvedro Airport or Burgo's creek. Specifically, it is planned to make a link in Corveira, in the service area of Burgo, improve the link of Barcala and complete the link in Four Ways — I repeat, without fee —. In the final approval agreement of the sectoral plan, as in Cambre the layout was not defined, the decision is taken that it is the Town Hall itself who drafted the proposal to draw up this frame. And in February 2006 the Chamber Council drafted a draft of the agreement, adjusted to the requirements of the previous agreed sectoral plan. The Galician Board provisionally approves this project of tracing with substantial variations which do not fit in to the full approved by the Chamber Council or the sectoral plan, which is the most serious. And so the connection to AP-9 does not include the four-way knot with free toll in all directions, and it incorporates an AP-9 connection leg at Armental spot position with the toll area. The stretch between AP-9 and A-6 is defined with high-capacity and non-normal road characteristics, as expected. The planned node in Bribes is not performed. And in April 2009, the Galician Union agreed to final approval of the draft tracing without taking into account the allegations and despite the fact that the document was not adjusted to the previous determinations described in the sectoral plan. The excuse at the time is that Development does not allow the free-to-pay connection. And in May of that same year, the Chamber Council, by not receiving any justification for the refusal of the allegations submitted and for the absolute disregard for them, presents a repositioning remedy, which today, ten years later, has no answer. A hundred more vicissitudes — meetings and motions in the Town Hall, mayors' agreements and initiatives — were officially presented at the end of February of this year by the work of the new stage of the Ártebra road, to tender the plan between national VI and AP-9 around 40 million, and with a run-in period of thirty-six months. The presentation of bids ended last April, and everything came to indicate that the works would begin this summer. And so it was. The Greek Government had decided to do so in two phases: the three-kilometre national VI and AC-221, plus the one-kilometre link to the 1-kilometre Holy Spirit polygon; and another modified AC-221 and AP-9, pending authorization from the Ministry of Development. These two phases are about 40 million, as we said. The first phase, already called, is running; and the second stage, the Gandara plot, is unsolicited but with machines working — making saws, scraps and multiple jobs. You're not biding, and you're not having proper leave of Fomento or preceptive agreement with Audasa. And here we are, with the normal legality in the book. Let's see, a government that acts in a manner, let's say, irregularly, or say by forcing legality, or let's say doing what's wrong with it and the interests it protects, which are not those of citizens. Go on! He kicks and cuts where he hits him and he likes it. Example. Because after more than ten years of waiting for the replacement remedy presented by the Chamber Council, nothing is known. It must be said that the plot proposed by the Chamber Council, which today defends the affected neighbours, was 1.8 kilometers shorter, and only affected three houses and without invading and destroying natural spaces. While the project that the Union imposes — I repeat, it imposes — takes down 44 houses, it is longer and damages the wetlands of the Gandara, which occupy 50,000 square metres — this occupation and ruin — among other disasters. Because if you're going to bid -- you'd say you're already working, so you see it, and so from the Chamber Council you tell us -- this second phase, for which there's no growth permit and there's no agreement with Audasa -- I repeat -- visible. Of course, there's a deal, of course, with peas. Because in the middle there were mayors' meetings in the metropolitan area, and they continue to bet on the most sensible and rational, which comes to be articulating the road network into meshes and preserving the areas that will have to act like lungs in a metropolitan area that will significantly increase its density and that will need this preservation. And they refuse, in addition, the fees. According to the studies of traffic densities of all traffic caught by the Ártebra route, between national VI and AP-9, the majority capture, i.e. the two thirds, would come from national VI. So traffics channelled by national VI towards the city of the Crown will be transferred to AP-9 through the Ártebra and also from vial 18, with peas! This is how it is to make national VI almost an urban route, making it more beneficial to optimize the use of the corridor that would be assumed by AP-9 as a high-capacity transit track, and something very interesting — I repeat — with peas! And here we are denouncing a mass, a strange fraternization operation with that AP-9 Audasa, which once again modifies and directs the PP Joint's actions in the mutual benefit, and which leaves out the opportunity to articulate with manner the mobility of the Crown metropolitan area with a vision of the future. Without permission of Development, without public agreement with Audasa, indecently, you will take forward the illogical and damaging modification of a project. And if Development does not give permission, what do we do with the works done?, what do we do with them? A towel to get shot? And if Audasa doesn't come to an agreement — which I'm sure comes to, who is she who commands — the money invested in a dead plot, who's going to rest them? Sir, sir!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u231	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr. Casal Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u232	Good afternoon again. Well, we were talking about a time of climate change, and the Galego Nationalist Block brings us an initiative to recover a mobility plan for the 15-year-old metropolitan area of Coruña where all the performances, analyzing one by one, are cement and asphalt. Everything is cement and asphalt so that more private vehicles can reach the center of the Coruña, shopping centers and industrial polygons. It seems to us that this is totally unsustainable. Mobility policies can no longer be developed with these approaches. And that's where our amendment goes. We believe that what would have to be claimed — and in Marea so demands — to the new Government, which we hope will soon be able to launch, is that in the budgets of 2020 it will finance the study of a new mobility plan for the metropolitan network of Coruña based on other radically different criteria. I was talking before we face climate change, it means taking radical action, and we think this is one of them. That's why we'd consider removing this whole project and demanding the drafting of a new one based on sustainable proposals, such as the nearby train, especially considering that the network is already, simply conditional, electrify it. These are investments that are probably far below what this whole cement and asphalt plan would involve. We've reached a neighbourhood network in an environment of almost half a million inhabitants. It could even reach Ferrolterra, which could completely change — that would indeed change — the life of the entire metropolitan area of the Coruña. And, I mean, he could get to Ferrol, Betanzos, and even beyond taking advantage also of the train line that goes to Lugo. That's why we are considering the development of a new plan that proposes the implementation, as soon as possible, of the entire vicinity network in the Coruña metropolitan area, with collective transport where the train cannot reach and which, instead of having to enter the Coruña, arrives at the stations that could be set up throughout that surrounding metropolitan network, with dissuasive parkings prior to the major traffic zones and also at the train stops. This is not an invention, this is what is being done in every city, in every most developed metropolis in Europe. It doesn't make sense to improve the channeling of private traffic to get to embassies, such as Alfonso Molina Avenue, or the Passage Bridge. Yes, then we can also put more asphalt and more cement, and double the size of the Passage Bridge, expand it. The workers who are going to work at Agrela, who are going to work at Pocomaco, the people who are going to buy at malls, what they'd like is not to have to take the car. And that's where I should go the future. So, according to the conclusions of this new mobility plan, it's like we should adapt the sectoral plan of the road network across the Coruña metropolitan area. And that's what we claim, and that's where the two points of our amendment go. I say, no more cement and asphalt, no more reason to suggest that the solution is that private vehicles arrive at destination places, but rather bet on alternative routes that — I say — are no invention, and that is really how the lives of citizens and the citizens of the entire metropolitan area of Coruña would truly change radically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u233	Thank you very much, Mr. Casal. Mr Jove González has the floor by the Parliamentary Group on the Left.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon to everyone. I anticipate that from our group we will support this proposal, not before observing that we again find here a good demonstration of the political mess of the lost decade of the government of the PP, a work announced 15 years ago — and that is now beginning in two phases — being that Territorial Policy Advisor Alberto Núñez Feijóo. It's just as bad as these days are about to get over it. On the first stage of this work, which leads from national VI to road AC-221, as a Member has already indicated before, is being done. We have the project, and the works are under way. What surprises us most is that the work of the second instalment is also under way, and that neither is bided nor is projected nor announced anywhere. However, the machines are in the Gandara, in the municipalities of Oleiros and Cambre, working there. Let's see if anyone can explain how this can happen. These are works that Junta does without the necessary consensus, in addition to the rest of the administrations — especially with the Ministry of Development and the Chamber Council — and taking forward the agreements that had been created around it in the distant part of 2004. How can Junta start a work without yet having a response from the Ministry of Development on its suitability and which is generating a high social rejection by the neighbourhood, the business fabric, the municipalities and collectives in defence of the environment? How can it be that ten years later the Chamber Council still has no response to the replenishment resource you presented in 2009? Those are good questions. We understand that the Union, increasingly isolated, is increasingly making a more unilateral policy, without anyone, because it is moving forward without any consensus. And there is another way to do things, like, for example, the things that are done as they have been done since the Town Hall, being mayor Julio Ferreiro, to encourage, propose and promote the metropolitan area of the Crown, with the Declaration by Maria Pita, signed and ratified by mayors and mayors of the Crown, Bergundo, Betanzos, Cambre, Culleros, Oleiros and Sada. They learn a little by generating consensus, they learn a little by how politics is done from below and horizontally. "This statement"—textually—"looks for a shared strategy and a common goal: to focus on democratic management of interdependence in the construction of the metropolitan area, managed by representative leadership and participated from the local level on the nearest scale, and to accompany an active and committed citizenship in the cooperation and collaboration between actors and social agents, and in cohesion around a common project of the future; cooperation and collaboration as fundamental elements for the creation of a networked tissue of free-to-peak road interconnections in the Marine Townships." Because this is also fundamental, that these connections are free to pay. It is fair to return and freeness of AP-9, rather than amortized, with a high price and with more than poor maintenance — as has already been explained in an earlier theme in this same plenary. The infrastructure we are talking about today is assumed in preliminary studies that the two thirds of the vehicles that would use it would come from national VI towards AP-9, with direction or origin in the city of Coruña. According to data from the Cunta de Galicia and de Fomento, 273,544 vehicles enter the city of Coruña daily, and A Coruña is also a real funnel. It doesn't seem to us that this is going to solve anything, it seems to us a measure, of course, that is necessary but that it has to be accompanied by other measures. And, I insist, with freeness in front, no tolls, no tolls in the shade. Interestingly, no Greek city is connected free of charge with AP-9. This was thinking about it when I made these notes, until I realized that it was, that there is a city that is connected free of charge and that it was done with a work in an agile and determined way to connect it, the City of Culture, the Mount Gaiás. In addition, the Union announces a location of the connection to the unilaterally decided AP-9 – just a couple of kilometers away from the one agreed on in 2004 in Four Ways – in place of the Gandara, a place within the reservation of the biosphere of Mandeo's lands, a declared buffer zone for the place of community interest of the Cecepre choir, which is really a verxel, is a paradise, a place that should be protected. We don't understand why this location, this connection, which doesn't benefit anyone there, since instead of Four Ways there already exists that communicative knot that helps get out of these municipalities. We understand that this is not the right location, we understand that it causes great rejection; and we understand that, of course, what we have to do is what we put in this shirt: "defense the train." This is the Navy Train Platform T-shirt, which defends a proximity train that would help this. [[Mr. Jove González marks an inscription that wears on his shirt.]] And it can't be that, for example, in the Chamber Town Hall, which we're dealing with today, there's only a train able to reach the Coruña back and forth in the day, which leaves at 10 a.m. and returns at 7 p.m., in a town hall with 25,000 neighbors and neighbors. There can't be a fluent connection to the town of Coruña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u235	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u236	Yes, I'm done, Mr. President. It can't be! We understand that, just as the Board seems to have imposed a request for AP-9 to be transferred to the Crown, it should also push...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u237	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u238	...and I should also support a request for a high-quality proximity train in the autonomous Greek community; which, by the way, together with Extremeura, is the only one that is not available today for this service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u239	Thank you very much, Mr. Young. You have the floor, by the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Prado. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry. That's why he was unwary... I'm the unwary! You have the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u240	They're getting ready for the change, aren't they?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u241	No, I've already marked it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u242	No, no, it's already thinking about the future change. All right, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The Ártabra road is a work already planned in 2001 with the objective of relieving, on the one hand, the volume of vehicles on the roads in the metropolitan area of Coruña and on the other, acting as a means of territorial cohesion. In 2004, when the sectoral plan was approved, and Mr Feijóo was a adviser, because this sectoral plan was born with the premise that it was more than a road network infrastructure plan. And that is why it defines territorial intervention policy determinations that compromise the documents that develop the plan, such as the empowerment of trade activity, a greater territorial balance, social cohesion and the liberalisation of tariffs. Today's extension of the Ártebra route is essential, since it is currently only beginning in Lorbe and arriving in Iñas, in National VI, without fulfilling any of the planned targets and having a traffic intensity much lower than expected because it does not count on the necessary connection to the high-capacity routes to reach the urban areas. At the Junta Council of 21 February this year — i.e., 18 years after its planning — the invitation to tender for the opening works of the first phase of extension of the Ártebra to the AP-9 motorway, i.e., from the National VI to the AC-221 autonomous road, from San Pedro de Noi to Mabegondo. The Council's reference on that day says that the Galician Union will invest more than 35 million euros in this free-of-charge infrastructure with the aim of articulating a cross-sectional route to the city's entry traffic through national VI, AP-9 and A-6. It also says in the Council's note that the Ártebra route is a strategic route to the Galician Union, defined in the sectoral plan of the Coruña, Artexo, Culleredo, Cambre and Oleiros road, with the aim of improving communications in the Coruña area. And it also points out that the tender includes a modification of the contract to execute the second phase of the contract with AP-9 as soon as the Ministry of Development authorizes this connection. Well, the authorized work violates the fundamental objective of the development of the metropolitan area of the Crown, such as territorial cohesion, by restricting itself only to the connection with AP-9. So what you do is you increase the traffic density by the avenue of Alfonso Molina, which by itself is a too saturated urban road. The Ártabra road must be a real connection between the municipalities concerned, a real connection between the industrial polygons of the metropolitan belt and a real connection between the port installations. Since then, it is necessary to prioritize the connection of the track to the A-6 and that it becomes a true circle of the whole region, along with the A-6 and the Third Round, at no cost of paying. The connection to AP-9, as it is now thought to be, is a partial and captive option for the entire metropolitan environment, which favors the interests of a concessionaire — Atlantic Highways — and possibly other private interests. We do not know, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, whether the Council of Galicia today has done its duty, and we ask the Group of the People's Party whether the Council of Galicia has agreed with Audasa to amend the current concessional contract. The Council of Galicia has prepared the convention which, in its nature prior to the execution of the works, must be signed by the three administrations involved? Look, Mr President, I am going to read to you literally — literally — the report that has been reiterated on several occasions to the Council of Galicia and also — in the same literality — when Mr. Mariano Rajoy ruled in the Government of the State. "The proceedings may only be authorised if there is no negative economic impact on the State, bearing in mind that in any case it is necessary to amend the current concessional contract with the concessionary holder for any action on the AP-9 motorway. It is necessary to sign an agreement between the three administrations involved, prior to the execution of the works, which answers all the issues raised. In order to ensure the above, prior to that agreement between the three administrations, there must be a prior and necessary agreement between the Galician Union and the Audasa concessionary society on the implementation and financing of the works, in such a way as to ensure...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u243	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u244	...that in no case will the Ministry of Development undertake economic commitments." So we want to know if the Galician Union has the duty to do so.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u245	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u246	I will simply vote in favour of this initiative. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u247	Thank you very much. Now if you have the floor, by the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u248	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. As one of the previous spokespersons has already remembered, Junta has been in progress — already running since August — an investment of EUR 40 million to extend the Ártebra route to AP-9, the largest bid on roads in the Union, paid with own funds and budget, in this decade, and to carry out a necessary work, demanded in the area of the Coruña and free of charge, free of charge! The work of Junta is free of charge, both that which is functioning from the Ártebra route — 70 million invested — and that which it is doing. [[Murmurs.]] It is free from toll, like all the ones that have made the government of Feijóo in these ten years, all free from toll. [[Applause]] Also -- as they said -- it goes in two phases: the first is up to AC-221, so that we can connect the improvement of the link with the polygon of the Holy Spirit -- this is the case for those who talk about sustainability -- and the second is pending a report from the Ministry of Development. And that's why it's there. No work will be performed at this time, where if the link is changed, if money is lost — without authorization. That's not true. And if you're doing some work that company, or anyone you want, out of the authorized scope, the powers are from the Chamber Council and you can perfectly lift an inspection. Because the competences in works without a license or authorization are municipal. - That's why, but it's not true. - That's why you don't raise those reports. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Or don't tell me you're exempting the Chamber Council from your work. In any case, we have to be calm today. Because point 1, 2 and 4 are central government competences. And today we know a deal. We are also sure that this number will rise from 155 to 156, because BNG will also be incorporated. And surely with More Country will be three more. I'm sure the whole opposition will be supporting that government. And they have the ability to decide whether that link goes to one place or another, because they are the ones who inform and authorize — today the project is already authorized. And it is also the responsibility of this socialist government, with Podemos and BNG, to decide whether or not there is toll on AP-9 — not on the Ártebra road — because the fee is paid on AP-9, not on the Ártebra road, which is free to pay. [[Strong murmurers.]] In any case, I hope Mrs Rumbo is not suggesting that what she wants us to do is the same as that little Touriño agreement, which cost us 7 million euros/year to the Greeks, which we paid a few peas in the Barcala and Rande — the Central Government and the budget of the Greeks — of nearly 400 million euros where the concession lasted. I hope that's not the approach. The decisions of the AP-9 fee do not negotiate them... who negotiates with AP-9, Mrs. Rumbo, is the central government, which is a state highway. [[Murmurs.]] In any case, to make that mesh that we're talking about first, you have to get to AP-9 and then pull up to AP-6. But we need to make sense to the 70 million euros that are already invested and continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u249	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u250	But, of course, I don't find it strange that they go against their own actions. Because we have to remember that, well, the truth is they always do. Every time there's a infrastructure, they're against it. They tried it on the Death Coast, taking him to the Prosecutor's office. In five days, they filed a file, thanking the neighbours of the Coast of Death. Now they want to do it with the Ártebra. But with decisions that are from the BNG, the two-party government! Because he forgot to say that the approval of the trace study and the approval of the environmental impact statement was made with Emilio Pérez Touriño as president of the Government and with the Nationalist Block Galego. That's what they forget to say! And the decision of this plot, look at what I'm going to tell you, despite the fact that it's done by the two-party government, with the BNG, I'm sure it's done well, because I trust the technical decision of the engineers and technicians at the board and the people who worked on this subject. Even though it was you who approved this route. In any case, the gendara link is not a political decision, it's a technical decision. In any case, they have permission in the hands of this new government at the other point, but they know it's not true. Because, Mrs. Rumbo, I will also read to you what Mr. Abalos sent you on January 2019 about this. He says, "According to the Ministry of Development reports, an outline will be included where it is possible to install an area of toll prior to the new Gandara link." This is what the new Government has to decide whether or not to oppose it! Not the Government of the Union, which does the work of the Ártebra street without a fee.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u251	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u252	By the way — just by clarifying a subject — he is well informed, because the response to the Chamber Council arrived a year ago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u253	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u254	You have already responded to the allegations since October 2018.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u256	Confirm it because they've had it for a year. Be well informed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u257	Thank you very much. Mr. Rivas Cruz has the floor for the author group of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u258	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Martín, free of charge. And, then, why this plot? No, no, but, then, why this plot? Because, look, if the PP had been clear from the beginning that it was going to be free to pay, I would never opt for this plot, which is the longest, the most harmful... No, no, it's the most irrational, even if it's covered by a technician, I don't care. A technician's signature does not give a white letter or give a letter of reliability. Not really, caramba! [[Mr. Fernández Prado speaks words that are not perceived.]] What Bipartite? You're really traumatized with the Bipartite. Did he hurt you so much? Did he hurt you so much? Do we show them that we could govern and that we could do things right? [[Mr. Fernández Prado speaks words that are not perceived.]] What the hell! [[Applause]] Take that out, go to a psychologist, really; go to a psychologist, which they need. [[Murmurs.]] Look, you have the value of -- I remember -- I'm sorry, I don't want to be offensive -- that dog with a bonachon look, the masts, don't you? That, when they do this, they splash everyone else, except them -- they swoop everybody. [[Mr. Rivas Cruz moves his head to the sides.]] And you now: this is the council, this I don't know that... but you at the bottom are opting for a plot that is illogical, it's long, it's harmful to the environment and, besides, it's annoying 44 dwellings -- and it's longer -- Who do they negotiate with? [[Mr. Fernández Prado speaks words that are not perceived.]] Really, who do you negotiate with? Because at the bottom of your proposals there's always a business you know later. Really, look, we don't understand how you, the flag of corruptism, discriminate, how it allows the Coruña, the city of Coruña, to be discriminated against. In Vigo the bus is free of fees to facilitate communications with the metropolitan area; in Santiago, too; in Pontevedra, too, and in Coruña, what? Now it turns out we're going to be the BNGs that we're going to frame the flag of corruptism and... Man, don't bother me! Please! Don't change things. Look, you've completed the expropriation project of the entire Gandara plot without the Fmento permits and without the Audasa preview. Is it sugar, is it prepotence or is it? It's abuse. Look, do you know that the Town Hall identified the subcontract companies that are already working two or three days ago? Of course, what do you want, judge the problem? They were in a tremendous hurry, because now they're going to say, are they against progress? You always use the same artimagina. Sounds like a lie this country doesn't find out how you guys do it. I'm not kidding, I'm serious, caramba! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Casal, look, really, that speech is ours, of course it is; the speech you made is ours, of course. But not immediately, with realism, with these people in the government, what do we do? We stop, we leave everything suspended? And what do we offer to the citizenry?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u259	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u260	In the short term to the population of this area, what remains, without communication of any kind, with bottlenecks, with continuous traffic problems, with infrastructures of the last century?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u261	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u262	In the long term, it is our proposal, but we will first have to convince and conquer political power and citizen power and then we will speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u263	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Mixto, at the initiative of Mr Luis Villares Naveira and two other Members, on the realization by the Government of Greece of environmental audits throughout the Government of the Autonomous Public Administration, autonomous bodies, public bodies and adscribed bodies, as well as the verification of the degree of compliance with European Regulation 1221/2009 and Decision 2019/61
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u264	This motion for a non-law was tabled by two amendments, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u265	You have the floor, to formulate the non-law proposition, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u266	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all again. The environment is the vital support for humanity. This has at some point forgotten us, and today this situation is about to become irreversible. Climate change is currently having important health consequences, not only for the environment, but for people, but also for a emerging threat to the planet. Climate change is a global problem, but to fight it, you have to act on a local scale. That's how they recognize him from the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces itself. Ecosystems understood as the combination of the physical and biological components of a environment form complex sets that act as a unit. Its maintenance is essential for people's health. Its base is biodiversity and includes, among others, the availability of water, food production, pest control, etc. All these elements are necessary to preserve our health, to preserve our well-being. In the last fifty years alone, human action has resulted in a loss of biodiversity with irreversible character greater than that produced throughout the history of humanity itself. The changes that have been made have generated great profits and economic development, but this has been at the expense of the degradation of ecosystems and the accentuated poverty of many people, jeopardizing the benefits of future generations. It's urgent to reverse ecosystem degradation and it's urgent at the same time to meet the growing demand for its services. Human activity is exerting so much pressure on the natural function of the earth that it can no longer be claimed that it will have the capacity to sustain generations to come. Human intervention is seriously altering ecosystems, destroying biodiversity and polluting the natural environment, through, for example, contamination of food, water, pharmaceutical waste, landfills, air, and Galicia, unfortunately, does not stand out. Some of the causes of the climate crisis we have in our country today are forest fires. More than 70% of the large forest fires that occur throughout the Spanish state pass here, in Galicia, 70% of the large forest fires. That's enough cause to alarm us. Other causes are: gas emissions to the atmosphere, from the most insignificant use of a spray to the emissions of large factories, such as the thermal power plant at the Bridges; water pollution and non-cleaning of water; the use of uncontrolled plastics; we have our rivers and our beaches already with a high degree of microplastics. Finally, people's hands will end up speeding up a climate crisis that we're not going to be friendly with, and if we don't stop them, they're going to irremediably lead them to a climate chaos where we're just looking at the first consequences, like with the fires -- which, besides, here, in our country, we know a lot about this -- with forest fires, which we've been hit for many years, or with the laughter that we've seen through the Peninsula this year. And these causes of the climate crisis also have their consequences for Galicia: warmer and dryer summers, temperatures that have never been reached in our country, we are now reaching them, increasing the average annual temperatures, winters with very little rain, sarabies for almost all year. By contrast, when typical meteorological phenomena, such as a storm or snow, come at once, and this ends up causing significant damage like those that happened last year, that thousands of trees lost branches for their own weight they had to endure when they were in flowering, or that large amounts of water in a short time have caused flooding, affecting the agricultural sector. Other consequences for our country may be the invasion of non-autochthonous species, of invasive species, such as the beeve of the chestnut tree, as it may be the beetle, as it may be the invasion of species that drain our clean waters, killing the life in it, as it may be the cyanobacteria in the reservoirs. Or other animal species, such as the American crab or the Florida turtle, which makes us have to use ourselves thoroughly to combat this uncontrolled expansion. In this context, the first standard recognised by EMAS is a regulation of the European Union relating to the environmental management system which facilitates the voluntary participation of the organisations of the different industrial sectors in the European Eco-management and Eco-auditory Programme in order to protect the economy and the environment. The regulation of this rule calls on the different Member States of the European Union to establish administrative structures to support the programme and to allow organisations to participate voluntarily in developing policies and actions related to the environment and sustainable development, as laid down in the Treaty on European Union signed in Maastricht until 1992. The regulation says it's the organizations that have to have their responsibility to manage the environmental impact that they generate with their activities. This Regulation has been amended over the years in 1993, in 2001, in 2009, in 2017 and the last one in 2018 only. The sectoral reference document that has been handled since last year's change includes a specific address to administrations, to administration itself. These contain the best practices of environmental management, the environmental performance indicators and the comparative parameters of excellence and qualification systems of the different levels of environmental behaviour. Environmental audits are carried out to control the wear and use that the company's own fabric exerts on our natural environment and try to reduce the damage that is being generated with productive activities, achieving as much energy efficiency as possible. What to do? Companies, industries, organisations, administrations that comply with environmental protection regulations and the prevention of polluting activities do so through a standard, ISO 14001 standard, which collects the minimum standards that companies must meet and have targets set according to the assessment of the impact of their activities on the environment. The audits are: the evaluation of the effectiveness of the measures taken by the company to preserve our environment, focusing on areas where it is possible to improve and propose corrective measures. These audits collect information on the operation of the company that allows control, which allows planning and correcting activities that compromise the environment and which allows innovation, which saves costs to companies and organizations that have this management system and to this environmental audit system. Therefore, it is necessary to carry out a climate audit to determine the degree of compliance with environmental legislation, where appropriate, to propose the necessary corrective measures in the area of the entire Government of Galicia and whether the environmental management system legislation and environmental audits are effectively complied with, and with the approved sectoral reference documents which entered into force in May this year. One of the main challenges of the Greek Government must be to develop an economic policy that promotes harmonious, balanced and sustainable development, where the protection of the environment is essential. The environmental policy in Galicia must be developed - or it should be developed - by the Environmental, Territorial and Living Council, and it must promote a high level of protection and improvement of the quality of the Greek environment: integral water management, prevention and waste management, conservation of nature and biodiversity, integrated pollution prevention and control, fight against climate change, improvement of air quality, rehabilitation of contaminated and degraded soils, environmental risk prevention, boost of environmental technological innovation, improvement of their education policies and environmental awareness. And in addition, the policy of the Greek Government had to try to integrate environmental aspects into the different sectoral policies for the progressive achievement of sustainable development. The German Government has not yet done so, it is not yet applying this rule which was approved in May 2019 with its latest correction. And that's why we are asking this House to urge the Galician Board to conduct environmental audits throughout the Government of Galicia, in all autonomous bodies and public bodies, as well as adscribed bodies, and to verify the degree of compliance with that regulation in 2009, with its subsequent amendments, on the sectoral reference document...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u267	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u268	...on best environmental management practices and benchmarks of excellence for the administration sector. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u269	Thank you very much, Mr. David. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Vilán Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u270	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. It's true, you well explained the joint group spokesman that is an environmental audit and what is his main objective. Indeed, what Regulation 1221/2009, which was then amended, and Decision 2019/61, completes, is that the audit is aimed at companies, companies, especially large companies, to assess or determine the degree of compliance with environmental legislation, whether national or supranational. And it has an end, it has an objective, and it is precisely to reduce the damage these large companies or that these companies can generate about the environment, analyze the reality and decide on that analysis to do, how to remedy these harmful practices for the environment. These environmental audits basically act on constructions, industrial activities, waste minimization, consumption of basic necessities and other types of activities, and they all relate to the environment. It is true that these are initiatives that serve to deal with – especially from the point of view of analysis and after reaching an objective to avoid damage or minimize damage – the climate crisis and therefore have to be welcomed. Having said this, on the one hand, is the regulation, which is a rule that obliges all the states of the European Union, but which specifically does it is to ask the administrations to power this environmental management and audit system called EMAS - it is an abbreviation - and, moreover, there is the decision, which is a Community standard which does not oblige the countries to which it is headed. In any case, this Regulation calls for the strengthening of voluntary participation practices for all organizations and companies in order to improve their environmental activity and their environmental impact. There is even a register, and organizations that want to benefit from EMAS stamps must be registered in that register, and with that stamp, these companies are able to understand in a transparent way and to inform users basically of those companies that have the intention, the objective, to protect the environment. We believe that it is true that the Administration of Greece - all administrations, not only the Administration of the Union, but also the municipal administrations, the local administrations - should put this EMAS system in place. But for the costs that it might involve doing an audit in each of the autonomous bodies, in each of the public bodies, in each of the councils, we believe that it would be better to do so gradually, not all at once, which is what the initiative seems to be asking for, and to do so, in some areas, which are precisely those we are talking about in our amendment, so we register this amendment. Junta must check, and we believe it must be before this legislation is over, because, as we spoke earlier, in the last intervention on climate crisis, climate change is moving forward, even if we don't do anything, and we can't continue to let time pass without doing anything. The Union should check the degree of compliance with this Community legislation by putting in place - but we believe that in a gradual way - this management and environmental audit system in four minimum areas, which we believe are basic: energy efficiency in its own buildings, in public buildings - let me see the green covers that are being promoted, for example, in the Paris Town Hall, which is a very simple thing - also, although they do not like, or do not like, the members of the People's Party, measures to reduce light pollution; acoustic pollution too; the improvement of the treatment of any kind of waste, which we are going too badly; improvement and sustainable mobility, promoting, for example, electric transport for those members of the Government or people of high standing in the Government who use the official car, for example; and improved environmental management practices in the supply of water... but not in the supply, but in the use...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u271	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u272	...—now finished—for example, it has been done or is being done in the Galician Parliament itself. We hope to reach an agreement in our amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u273	Thank you very much. Mr Trenor López has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u274	Yes, good afternoon, gentlemen. Mrs. Vilan, I heard her speech and it was quite right, we shared a lot of what you were saying, but she added something in the end that I didn't understand very well. He said we didn't like to fight against light pollution. Did he say that? I mean, you, who's sitting there with Mr. Caballero's nephew, who's Galicia's biggest light pollutant, come and say that we don't like to fight against extreme contamination, at least let me be amazed; at least let me be amazed at his assertions. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But if even in a thing we can agree on, you have to introduce these kinds of vests so that the agreement is not possible, there you and your way of doing parliamentaryism. EMAS, ladies and gentlemen, is the Community environmental management system. It is regulated by Regulation 1221/2009, which is available to public and private organisations that voluntarily wish to evaluate and improve their environmental performance. The body responsible for the accession of production centres in any sector to the Community environmental management and audit system is the Directorate-General for Environmental Quality and Climate Change of Galicia. As the EMAS regulation itself indicates, this must be a means for organizations to manage impacts and improve their overall environmental behaviour. The objective of EMAS is to promote continuous improvement in the environmental behaviour of organizations by establishing the implementation of environmental management systems, systemic, objective and periodic evaluation of the functioning of such systems, the dissemination of information on environmental behaviour, open dialogue with the public and other stakeholders and the active participation of staff in organizations, as well as adequate training. Some relevant terms included in the EMAS Regulation are those that refer, for example, to the environmental management system, which is part of the management system that includes the organisational structure, activity planning, responsibilities, practices, procedures and processes and resources to develop, implement and maintain environmental policy and also manage it, and everything that refers to environmental aspects. The term [...] is also very important within the EMAS Regulation, as is the organisational one, as well as environmental behavior, which are the measurable results through management by an organization with regard to the environmental aspects that concern it. [[Intelligible.]] On Commission Decision 2009/61 of 19 December 2018 on the sectoral reference document on best environmental management practices, sectoral environmental performance indicators and benchmarks of excellence for the public administration sector, in the framework of Regulation 1221/2009, it shall include the recommendation that the organisations acceded to or in the process of accession to the system take into account the recommendations and best practices collected in the sectoral reference documents. It must be borne in mind that the Galician Union is aware of this Community environmental management and audit system regulated by Regulation 1221/2009 and its relevance to ensuring and improving the environmental behaviour of all public administrations in Galicia, and also as an exercise of transparency, which is not little. Evidence of this is that the Galician Board includes information on the number of companies registered in this system to assess the implementation of the 2030 Agenda in the autonomous community, specifically the Directorate-General for Environmental Quality and Climate Change, which is developing an environmental diagnosis of the 18 sustainable development goals in Galicia. One of the indicators to be used would be 12.6.1, which refers to the number of companies registered in the environmental management system, the EMAS. The data for 2007 is 329, which translates into a 16% increase in the last five years. It is important to highlight this that the implementation of an environmental management system is a long and continuous process that includes a series of well-defined steps and aspects in the regulation, including a systematic, documented, periodic and objective assessment of the environmental performance of the organization, the management system, environmental protection procedures and a verification defined as an environmental verifier's conformity assessment process to demonstrate whether environmental analysis, environmental policy, the environmental management system and the internal environmental audit of an organization and its application meet the requirements of this regulation. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, our group proposes the text alternative to the initiative - which we believe can be reached by agreement and which reflects a little of what has been said here by all - which says as follows: The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to follow its environmental management policy, Commission Decision 2019/61 of 19 December 2018 on the reference document...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u275	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u276	...sectoral on best environmental management practices, sectoral environmental behaviour indicators and benchmarks of excellence for the public administration sector under Regulation No 1221/2009 on voluntary participation of organizations in a Community environmental management and audit system, EMAS. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u277	Thank you very much, Mr. Trenor. Mr Bará Torres has the floor on behalf of the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u278	At this point, we see such a level of consensus that we feel at odds, because, in fact, in this matter the lyrics sound good, the music sounds good, but here there are issues that are a little too confusing for us, at least. Because this regulation proposes voluntary participation of organisations in a Community environmental audit management system through environmental audits carried out by authorised companies. And, of course, this leads us to a philosophy of a certain goodwill and volunteerism that we do not share, because, if we really have to have this environmental commitment, it should be done by means of rules of obligation to comply, because it is about taking care of the environment and seeking a commitment from organizations, institutions and companies in respect of these environmental criteria. Why this volunteerism? Here behind is an environmental mercantilization, the flourishing business of green capitalism, sustainable capitalism and the successful corporate social responsibility of companies that create this concept also of inclusive capitalism, of green cosmetics. As a number of these organizations have said, it is clear what is the objective of green investment and environmental auditing. The Director of Communication from Mapfre said clearly about corporate social responsibility, which also has this side of environmental commitment, which has its roots in that cosmetic purpose that always accompanies us in companies. And the head of Corporate Reputation of Telephonic said even more clearly: "If we're not able to link social and environmental responsibility to customer loyalty, revenue maximization and cost reduction, I think we're not going to be a central or nuclear figure in the management of companies." It is clear that it answers; it responds to an intention to bleach these companies, which are characterized by aggressive, predatory practices and the destruction of the environment, both here and in other countries where they operate with even less controls, because there is not even EMAS there. And, of course, so we have to be beneficiaries of these recognition companies, for example, like Endesa or Ence. He received the Golden Seal in 2015 for taking fifteen years with recognition EMAS. That's what we're talking about. And if we go to the register of companies that have the General Directorate for Climate Change and Environmental Assessment — of climate change — because it turns out that here we see — there are many companies registered here — that are Alcampo, the thermal power plant of Meirama — this one has to go down already — the thermal power plant of Sobón, the industrial residue centre of Somozas — since there would be a lot to talk about the environmental audit —, Ence, Elnosa — you have to take it down because you have shut it, as you have shut it, the Council of Pontevedra, the BNG —, Endesa-As Pontes - has a lot to do yet, I believe, to receive the EMAS certificate and you have done it! — – the Galician Parliament — that now has put these bottles to reduce plastic — I think you have a commitment, but you have a lot to do yet, I believe, to receive the EMAS. Perhaps, you're left... also ports of Galicia, Fenosa Union or nothing more and nothing less than a company like Xiloga, which belongs to a genuine environmental pirate, such as the Toysal group, which has a seal called Xiloga, which acts in the Somozas and has just been denounced and investigated by Seprona for a spill of leached from its rafts. This group is responsible for filling the mountains in large part of the province of Coruña of spills of technolus. And it's the same company that's, with that speculative operation, filling the Casalonga quarry with over 9 million tons of construction and demolition waste that should be recycled and recovered. That's what we're talking about when we talk about companies that have this green quality label and they assume that. [[Applause]] So, very careful with what these camouflage operations mean, because here we think there's a real fraud of law by giving a real patent of course to pirates and environmental predators. So, even though the lyrics and music sound good, we don't sound good at score, and less the orchestra that has to execute it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u279	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. On the part of the Joint Left Group, Mr. Cal Ogango has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u280	Thank you, President. In our group we quite agree with the vision that Mr Bará has just exposed, and we are going to abstain because we have a lot of doubts about this kind of measure. But if we agree with the need to make serious environmental assessments that put control and surveillance on the aggressions that are taking place in the middle, because in order to combat the different environmental aggressions we need to know what these conditions are. And in this case, the Galician Union has a subject where it doesn't have a suspension, is that it has a real very bad feeling about everything that it has to do with monitoring and controlling the aggressions of different companies and the different types of activities in our middle. And we don't know if it's because he doesn't know or because he doesn't want to, but anyway, Junta doesn't do, and so it's polluting water, land and air, day and day, too, in our territory, without any kind of consequence for these environmental aggressors. Because in Galicia those who pollute don't pay the People's Party Government. In Galicia, with the Government of the People's Party, those who pollute themselves are at the expense of all of us and the cost of destroying our environment. They're a lot of examples. This is not like the green speeches of the People's Party, which are left in the speeches but are not concrete in facts. Here are a lot of facts that prove this, we have lots of examples. We can remember what is the situation of the rafts of Mount Neme - those contaminated blue turquoise rafts that the Galician Union used to promote Galicia in an extreme exercise of honesty - because, of course, that is the model of Galicia that brings us and that encourages the People's Party. I'm an example of the policies of the Polish People's Party of the country, where they give public money to their friends so they can seize our territory, pick up the money and run and leave behind...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u281	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u282	It's an example of the policies of the Polio People's Party to the country...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u283	Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] We're finishing the whole thing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u284	...where they give public money to their friends to deprecate our territory, take the money and run. In this particular case... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u285	Excuse me, Mr. Cal. Excuse me a second. [[Murmurs.]] Please, we're finishing the whole thing. You know what Parliament's regulation is. [[Murmurs.]] If you have something to move, you can ask for the word later. [[Protests.]] Garden silence, that we are finishing the full. [[Protests.]] Quiet, please. I don't want to call an order to any deputies. [[Murmurs.]] Go on, Mr. Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u286	Thank you, President. In this case — and that is why I make this statement — the Council of Galicia granted 500,000 euros of grant to Leitosa, S.A., owned by Juan Cotino, involved in the Gürtel and nephew of the former president of the Valencian Community, so that it had done business extracting arid to finally leave and leave contaminated rafts...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u287	Please! [[Protests.]] If you prefer it, we'll suspend the full. [[Mrs. Sánchez García and Puy Fraga pronounce words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Sánchez, please! Mr. Puy! [[Murmurs.]] Please! Silence! [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Puy! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] All Members and Members are silent. If they want, we paralyze the full and stay here until eight o'clock in the afternoon. [[Murmurs.]] Let them continue who is in the use of the word. Go on, Mr. Cal. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence, Mr. Vega!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u288	I understand they don't want me to talk because it's really painful. The Galician Board granted EUR 500,000 of grant to Leitosa, S.A., owned by Juan Cotino, involved in the Gürtel and nephew of the former president of the Valencian Community, so that he had done business by extracting arids and finally leaving the contaminated rafts that are threatening the Noia River. That's the reality. That's a real case. [[Murmurs.]] Is that what I said a lie? [[Protests.]] What I said is a lie? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There's no grant to the lettuce... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u289	Mr. Cal, no dialogue. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u290	...to extract arid and it's not true that he finally left the rafts contaminated? Isn't this real? [[Murmurs.]] Well! [[Murmurs.]] It's reality, I understand you're praying to them. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u291	Mr. Cal, continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u292	You say that those who pollute pay, and it's a joke of bad taste, because the reality is that those who pollute Galicia get millionaires, because, seeing these cases, they dance public subsidies so they do business and then they leave the environmental conditions behind. This is the reality. And we can talk about the case of the Touro mine with the Bama ferry, we can talk about the case of Casalonga, we can talk about the case of Miramontes, Soprado dos Monxes, Sogama... we can talk about the sectoral wind plan, we can talk about the forest plan... it happens constantly. Galicia is a land of sacrifice so some can do business. It's the business of friends. [[Murmurs.]] These are the policies of the West Far, the lack of order, rigour and control. I understand that you get very nervous because today a progressive government in the state that will be on the side of the people and the defense of the environment that you know is the foretaste of Galicia... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u293	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u294	...a progressive government too. And you're going to get your bags because in Galicia they're going to go to the opposition, too, because in Galicia you can. [[Murmurs.]] Of course we can!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u295	Thank you, Mr. Cal. I would ask Members and Members to keep a little on who is speaking. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please, you are speaking the President of Parliament. Silence! [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr. Vega Pérez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Vega, you have a call to order. We'll go on with the agenda and we'll finish the whole thing quietly. Mr. Rodríguez Estévez has the floor for the author group of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u296	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u297	Can we finish the full, please? [[Murmurs.]] Thank you. [[Murmurs.]] Go on, Mr. Rodríguez, or start.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u298	Thank you, President. Very briefly. Mr Bará, at no time was this non-law proposition made with will neither mercantilist nor green capitalism. We don't think we're the most suspected of wanting to trade with the planet. It's true that we know entities you've named who have that prize, but we also know other highly recognized ones, of world prestige, who also have it. So perhaps, what we have to do is try to change that legislation — as you said well — so that that prize will be given to whoever has to be given it. And as far as the amendment to the PSOE is concerned, we're going to accept it, improve our amendment and set clear targets to develop. That of the PP, to see... that of urging the Galician board to pursue an environmental management policy that we think is bad -- and Mr. Cal said -- we can't accept it; we're talking about Cerceda, we're talking about the Bridges, we're talking about the boundary area or we're talking about the Touro mine. That of urging the board to follow, then, then... with the cut and paste, for no. [[Murmurs.]] If you accept the amendment of the Socialist Party — a amendment which seems to us, moreover, appropriate — well. As for the rest, if you're just talking about continuing to do the same damage, we're not going to accept it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-11-12-DSPG134.u299	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. When there's no more business to deal with, the session is suspended until tomorrow at ten in the morning.
