ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. He justified the inattentiveness of this full woman Concepción Burgo. We're on the agenda. Promises or oaths to abide by or maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of Galician autonomy of a new Member
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u2	The preliminary point is the provision of pledges or oaths to abide by or maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of Galician autonomy of the new Member Mr. Óscar Vilar Chento, and we do so by complying with Article 7.1 of the Rules of Procedure, for which I am seeking the promise or oath to abide by and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and the Statute of the autonomy of the new Member. The procedure or formula is that of... — silence, please, will take possession of a new Member; silence, please. [[Murmurs.]] The procedure or formula is to answer "yes, I swear" or "yes, I promise" to the question of this presidency. I'm asking you to answer the question I'm going to ask you. Don Oscar Vilar Chento, do you swear or promise to abide by the Constitution and the Statute of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u3	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u4	Thank you very much. Once the promise has been made, he shall become fully a Member. Welcome to Parliament. [[Applause]] Now we're on the agenda. Annual debate on general policy. Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Galicia to inform and discuss the political situation of the Autonomous Community of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u5	The President of the Galician Union has the floor. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u6	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, authorities present at the rostrum, ladies and gentlemen Members and senators in the General Courts, mayors and mayors, authorities, Welsh and Welsh. This is the last debate about the state of autonomy, the last of the legislation, but -- most importantly -- the last one we're going to address in advance of the decade that will start in a few months. Of course we'll have more opportunities to exchange opinions, but surely no other more propriety and entity than this one. A similar debate, although investment, will reconvene us all in 12 months, all the Greeks, but at that time the new decade will be already begun and the Xacobeo 2021 is about to start. Therefore, at that point, the path sheet will not only have to be defined but also practically executed or running. Galicia of the new decade will be marked by three Jacobos: 2021, 2027 and 2032, but beyond the preparation of these events, which are a great opportunity to generate income and show the world our best face, the Galicia of the next decade must be the best Galician history for the Greeks, for those who live it and for those who live it, because they come back, or because they're born here. We want a Galicia that lifts its tin, a Galicia that does not conform to converging, but leads; a Galicia that does not conform to retaining, but attracts; a Galicia that does not comply with preserving, but power; a Galicia that does not comply with simply resisting, but still new challenges. Galicia of the new decade must be, more than ever, Galicia of quality. Quality for those outside, ensure that here you will find the best tourist destination, here you will have high-level products, work set by good to make of all sectors; quality as brand that identifies us in the world, but quality for the Greeks as well. A more careful and orderly land, better services, higher-level employment in new sectors, more effective social policies and reaching more people, more reconciliation, a public education that puts our boys at the forefront and undoubtedly the best public health that can be achieved. More quality of life. Raising our list is not a rhetorical resource, it is a fair aspiration that we share with the Greeks after these years of effort and sacrifice marked by recession. It is supported by the historic opportunity offered by the coming holy years, and — most importantly — this collective ambition is supported by previous work, our accredited overcoming capacity and the achievements that all of Galicia has achieved in recent years. Galicia wants, Galicia can, in Galicia yes. [[Applause]] Just as in 2009, this legislation will close at the doors of a holy year, but this is probably one of the few occurrences of that 2009. If in 2009 the economy was decreasing by 3.6, we are now chaining up six growth exercises and the perspective is to continue to grow this year and what is next. We are the most advanced community, since Galicia is where the wealth per capita has grown in the last decade. We have reached our highest level of convergence with Spain, and we also come back to Europe's wealth. Besides, we're decreasing mortgages, because Galicia is the community that has increased its public debt in the last decade. We were the first to start reducing, four years ago, we have Spain's lowest commercial debt and private debt is 40 points below the Spanish average. Ladies and gentlemen, if the goal of every government is to leave things better than they were when they arrived, I humbly believe that this data reflects that on our part this objective is fulfilled. Galicia today is much closer to Galicia than most of the Galicians in 2009. I know that the whole of citizens always long for a better Galicia, this government, too. And because I don't comply with the already achieved, with more will and more illusion than that first day of ten years ago, my commitment to Galicia is also more effective than ever. [[Applause]] Of course, the situation in Galicia is much more encouraging than we found in 2009, when we received the confidence of the Greeks for the first time in full economic recession. But that doesn't mean the present is free from shadows. They chose them to tell the truth and manage reality, and that's why I'm not going to make it clear that in Galicia there are still problems to be solved, those that the Union has to answer, nor does our environment live a worrying moment, that conditions us and penalizes us. We are not alienated from international concerns, when there are protective tendencies that want to limit the world market, there are the interests of the Greek people involved and the companies and the workers affected by it. We are also not on the sidelines of the seizures of the European project or of the final resolution of Brexit, and we are particularly affected by the chronic instability that has been installed in Spain, because Galicia is Spain. It is hoped that this last statement will disturb nationalist Members, but I am surprised that there are other trainings that want us to isolate ourselves from the state panorama, as it is deduced from the assessments made regarding the date set for this parliamentary appointment. If what we were looking for was to wait for a moment when national instability did not interfere in this debate, we would take all the legislation — and I dare say that we could almost finish it — without holding any debate on the state of Autonomy. But what is also responsible is to assess in Parliament the consequences of this national paralysis for the Greeks. So, I think the Socialist Party is concerned about this debate about the state of autonomy is that it is the discovery it has made and above all that it has not done the current Government of Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, before I refer to the most important consequences of this whole situation, let me expose others that may be less tangible, but also harmful to our interests. In my opinion, the most important thing is the prevailing political attitude in Spain. Good policy usually distinguishes two moments that some currently confuse, causing such complex situations, such as the four-year comics, to which we are already talking. It should be respected that there is an electoral moment, perfectly sound in time, and another institutional moment. They're different, they're different in both the way and the background. Throughout all these years, we have ensured this differentiation, in any case and everywhere, because we always understand that this is the only guarantee of stability and agreement with the other administrations, regardless of who handles them in each case. On the other hand, in the central government we are seeing the electoral moment extending beyond the polls and invading the entire institutional policy, eradicating all borders. In these conditions, instability is the general tonic, and consensus is hard or impossible, as we see. A democratic health problem is created, if politics is understood to be an electoral campaign without truce. If instead of the President of the Government in Moncloa is the candidate of a party in permanent elections, if everything, absolutely, is decided on according to party expectations, the examples remain in recent months. [[Applause]] The institutions, which are all of them, were perverted to be used as a campaign tool. The electoral calendar has been manipulated, to the point where two celebrations were held in less than two months. Self-government resources for public services have been seized, which have also been used as a blackmail mechanism in political negotiations. The minimum standards of decoration between public administrations have been ignored. The alliances with loyal parties to the nation were won, and even contrary to coexistence, above democratic administrations and faithful to the Constitution. And even tried to confront women with each other, when fortunately the vast majority of society shares the same principles and objectives. Dialogue between Democrats, understanding between constitutionalists, collaboration between institutions, cannot be replaced by unremovable partisan trenches. Ladies and gentlemen, personal ambitions are legitimate, except when they are above the country. [[Applause]] Not only, ladies and gentlemen, the transition, but the Constitution or the Moncloa pacts would have been impossible with this dynamic. There would also have been no other indisputable successes, such as integration into the European project, the spread of autonomy or the development of the welfare state, or the fight against terrorism, or, more recently, important agreements such as the state pact against violence. There is not so much of this and, however, among the Spaniards — with three general elections in less than four years behind them and with the certainty that there will be a few quarters — it begins to be full, filled with self-centered politics and full of short-sighted politics that prevents agreements and contaminates coexistence. I fully understand and share this disgust. We Spaniards have not fought for years against the worst of economic crises and have to endure these, at least four years of the worst political crisis of democracy. Provisional governments, frustrated investments, electoral repetitions, motion of censure, absence of minimum respect between parties — including those who govern or intend to rule together —, anything less than what citizens need. [[Applause]] It is not known what electoral calculations are meant to mean that Spain has no alternative to this whole situation, that only this policy is possible. They're supposed to expect no remedy for this immature and narcissism, they don't expect anything better, because that's what there is and what Spain supposedly deserves. No, if there is an alternative to frivolity and instability, if you can make politics by putting the general interest ahead of you, if you can rule with everyone and for all, if you need to look at Galicia. Galicia lies that what lives in Spain is irremediable, in Galicia there are solutions. [[Applause]] The Union will continue to work for that stable Galicia, with a policy dedicated to citizens and not to the interests of the parties, and also to the extent that rigor, respect, dialogue, agreement with the other institutions of the State is possible. We have never seen or seen in any government of the nation an enemy, but an interlocutor to defend the interests of Galicia, because it is also Spain's interests. But unfortunately, this attitude is not reciprocal, and along with passivity and paralysis have consequences. In recent months, each of the projects that were committed to Galicia have been questioned. We do not have a stable interlocutor who informs Galicia of the high-speed trains in circulation. There are works that have been pending months to be auctioned — such as the Santiago orbital link or the reform of the Coruña train station, or the northern variant of Ourense. We also continue to wait for most of the works committed to the road sections that run through national roads. Resources have not been enabled for the Plan for the Rehabilitation of Cultural Interest Goods that are on the Jacobean Routes, nor is there any central government project known for the Holy Year. Talks and transfers have been blocked from the Atlantic Highway as well as from any other competition. We still don't have an electric tariff that gives security to electro-intensive industries like Alcoa, as promised. Navantia Ferrol is out of work for the next two years—two years!—there was no progress in the development of the 4.0 yard for the facilities. No measures have been taken to alleviate the fall in automotive sales. We've been waiting for months for the announced national strategy against the demographic challenge. Nothing was done for modifying the royal decree that encourages the retention of doctors. It was impossible to reform and resume negotiations to complete the autonomic police staff. The uncertainty with regard to the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Law of Back has been maintained. And, of course, we still have no solution to the most pressing need, which is to pay Galicia the 700 million euros of the Greeks to the State Fairy. All this, and more, is also the state of Autonomy. [[Applause]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, all of this I have just mentioned affects the Greek families. Let the Government guard itself in its provisional condition not to take necessary measures against our dignity, but also to pay attention to our own Fairy, because — as I say — it is depriving the Greeks of resources we need, but it is also by law that they correspond to us because they are ours. Galicia is not claiming anything extraordinary or anything extra, but something already collected, which is already in the box and which is already planned. It's not a smaller amount or a 700 million goat; it's, for example, the equivalent of the annual budget of all the social policies of the Galician Union. We've been warning the central government of this problem for a long time. About VAT, 200 million euros, we've been alerted more than a year ago and we've been promised a solution that never came. About delivery to account, 330 million; we were the first community to give notice even months ago and we're still waiting. Just like the incentives for fulfilling communities like Galicia, 170 million that spare us, as we devote all our attention to communities that have not complied with the rules in recent years. We sent out a legal report that supports our proposals and even drafted a draft of a royal decree so that they could solve it in days. Let's give the central government everything, and not so, because today the problem is still unresolved. It's hard to understand this position, but even more so than in this House there are those who support it. All of us here are the defenders of the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks, and to receive a very good deal of approval I don't know who cannot back to Galicia. Because the bottom of this matter is a great injustice, but even worse are the forms, with absolute contempt of the Greeks we represent and in prejudice of the public services that correspond to them. [[Applause]] They resorted to ghost reports and later to forced and incomplete reports in pre-election times. We were long gone and then our legitimate request was undervalued. He promised he'd blow everything up and then, at most, half. He hid himself from choosing the communities to which he was paid first. And it was said that a government in function could not pay off the debt, which was completely impossible, until the elections were convened. Apologies and strategies have been changing over time, but what hasn't changed is disrespect and non-compliance with Galicia. All this was a real shame, and all I hope at this point is that shame doesn't increase by adding a second deception. The Greeks are waiting for 700 million euros, or more or less, in full form. And I hope no one wants to pay off the debt by paying only a part, which is what it looks like. We won't allow it. A government in functions has functions, and this is one of them, the first to pay what is due. [[Applause]] What happens is that Spain has neither a government nor a government in function, and has a government in an election campaign. In budgetary matters this attitude indiscriminately affects all communities of general regime, but it is also adopted to take decisions that discriminate against each other and prioritize party interests against general interests. It was made with the blockade that we could invest in the surplus achieved last year, EUR 130 million, which we finally managed to release through a law passed in this Parliament. The General Budget Project was set up in the Courts — fortunately, wasted — and investments in Galicia were cut by 30% and investments in other communities increased by 60%. It was done by pardoning the debt of the port of Valencia and vetoing the same possibility to the port of the Coruña. Or it was done by denying the Board ordinary offices of interest to our community, while they were granted to other self-governments. General interests cannot be taken out of the posse, the Government has the duty to serve 47 million Spaniards, and that includes 2,700,000 Greeks. We must reiterate once again that the state cannot be confused with the central government. The State is all — national, autonomous and local institutions, and of course all citizens —; the State is permanent, the difference of governments, which we are transitional. And that's why no party can supplant a government. No government in functions, not even a central government in full powers, can supplant the whole of the state. Galicia does not ask nor will ever ask to be more than anyone, but neither does it accept nor will it accept to be less. We are all Spanish to the same extent and deserve the same consideration. [[Applause]] At this moment, political Spain has nothing to do with real Spain, in which we are also reflected by the Greeks. The paralysis of one shock with the dynamism of the other. One's asymmetry has little to do with the unit that pursues the other. The inability to find forms of governance contrasts with countless agreements that make every day the Spaniards of all condition and conviction. This growing disconnection between political practice and the everyday practice of citizens is due, in my opinion, to a fundamental reason: in Spain politics is losing its centrality. This value is neither the property of a single political party, no one can preserve it alone. Centrality was a achievement of the Socialist Party and the People's Party, with other support, too, from the common sense. Now, unfortunately, centrality seems to win in Spain that dialectic of Capulets and Montescos that we were talking about at the beginning and which so much like extremism. Galicia may be pleased that she did not succumb to ruptureist speeches, not even in the most difficult times. Galicia retains its common values and, being heterogeneous and diverse, it maintains its unity intact. And, no doubt, this contributes to the stability that exists on our land and keeps us as far away from immobilism as the bulldozers. During this debate, there will be interventions — starting with my own — that will indicate developments and conflicts that exist in Greek society. But let me ask three questions: could any of them be better solved in a politically unstable Galicia? Would any of them be more manageable if this government, this Parliament and these institutions were similar to other places that took a dead end? How could we propose to overcome them with political recipes that have been showing that they only lead to blockade or ungovernment? Ladies and gentlemen, there are those here who look enviously at other places or institutions, who would prefer Galicia to import the problems of other communities, or who would not care — on the contrary, would like — that Galicia had reproduced the instability, paralysis and failure of the last national legislations in order to be satisfied with its personal aspirations, also the image and likeness of those who now rule Spain. I don't want something like that for Galicia, because I want Galicia. I want Spain and all its territories the example that we give to the Greeks and to the Greeks, because I want Spain. And I claim Galician model. [[Applause]] This Galician model is not, at least, exclusive of this president, as much as the sole aim of this House's parties is simply to throw the Beijóo. It's not this government either, whatever the line we're trying to keep up-to-date. It's not that of any party, not so much as it's been ruling in this land for years. It is the model selected by the Greeks not only for several legislates but for several generations. Galicia is a stable and focused community, and that's why we've been trying to take the institutions to the centrality of its people since June. [[Applause]] To be centered, ladies and gentlemen, means, first of all, what is evident in ideological: to move in moderation. Lately people are trying to confuse moderation with weakness, when the main strength of a country is that the different political forces, which represent different views of citizens, are able to converge on what unites us, rather than continuously empower everything that separates us. But being focused also has a second meaning, which has so much or more importance right now: being what we need to be, being focused on people, citizens. We will not allow the instability of Spain to be transferred to the Greeks for minor interests. Galicia will continue to be a counterpoint to this situation. It is difficult — not to hide it — but we are determined to do so as far as we can. First, because, as I told you at the beginning, we have a project for our land that is worth pursuing and also because we have a commitment to our people, which deserves something different from what is mostly being given to them since national politics. Ladies and gentlemen, the model is Galicia, and that's why everything that depends on me, on everything that depends on me and while it depends on me, Galicia's interests will never be subjected to more childish, minority and much less extreme interests. [[Applause]] There are those who anticipate their ideological convenience, party and even personal Galician, but I don't. Above anything else, I am the president of Galicia and neither have I been nor will I ever be a hostage to any party, nor even mine. I'm a Galician militant. [[Applause]] And that's why, ladies and gentlemen, I aspire to preserve Galicia's model, because it's also a good idea to keep setting new goals in the coming decade. Talking about the medium or the long term almost seems impossible in today's politics, but it's not for Galicia. Galicia goes far beyond that policy of the next day's headline, the more or less clever tweet or a TV entertainment script. In this short-term vision, it seems irrelevant to comply — to comply with tax rules, to approve budgets, to spend without thinking of effects — to pay no attention to decisions and assessments that divide citizens widely and to address structural problems such as pension viability, health financing, equitable education or demographic problems. But all this, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately has consequences. And that's why we've worked so hard to make Galicia always an exception to the gap between political obligations and their responses today. Galicia is an exception that worries about the legacy we leave to those who will come, Galicia is an exception that wants to unite people and not to clique and separate them and Galicia is an exception that counts with a project that does not improvise, but rather plans. With this philosophy, we are developing the Strategic Plan 2021-2030, a way of managing that is endorsed, in the background and form, by the previous two strategic plans. In the end, because the fact that Galicia is leading economic progress in terms of per capita wealth in the last decade confirms that this planning was a success; in fact, nine out of the ten indicators of effectiveness of the plan in force are being fulfilled. But it's also good in shape, because, as you know, we're not talking about an exclusive board plan, but we're working together with social and business groups. The new plan is already open for everyone. More than four hundred experts have already done theirs and the invitation to participation we will keep it to the end, and, of course, also in this Parliament, where I hope to count on you. Similarly, planning reflects the good execution of European funds, which makes Galicia a reference in the Union and gives us strength and arguments to defend new demands for the next period 2021-2027. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia has a roadmap and a route along the way. In Galicia, despite all the obstacles, despite the blockade, despite national instability, it will again have budgets in 2020, like every year. Yes, we will approve the forthcoming budgets of the Galician Union by the year 2020 meeting the legal deadlines. [[Applause]] Because, despite the constraints that exist to elaborate them, by not knowing the deficit schedule and the deliveries on the next year's account, I refuse to deny the release of other institutions deprives the Greeks of new projects with additional resources. Citizens don't have to wait for national politics to recover their pulse. Galicia works and it won't stop and, unlike what's going on in the whole of Spain, it will remain certain, and one of them is the budgets on a date, as always. Because it seems basic to us to preserve everything we've achieved over the past few years and, of course, because we're not going to waste any chance of the future and less the as important as the one that Jacob 2021 offers us. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been heard that Jacob is more than one of the three events, if we count the year 2027 or the year 2032; above all, it's a great opportunity. That's why I don't hide my surprise and disappointment at the reaction of the opposition groups to the Xacobeo Strategic Plan, which we've already presented. I do not ask them to recognize the correctness of working in advance, with anticipation that was not in the previous Holy Year, nor to applaud all our proposals; of course, there are them for all tastes, much more when the goal is to reach different types of audiences. But I can't understand they haven't done a single thing yet. I ask them to recapcitate, do not abstain from the future of Galicia, where we are involved in the vast majority of the Greeks. Between his party and Galicia it is worth electing Galicia. And they know I speak to them with knowledge of cause. [[Applause]] With you — I hope — or without you, we will continue to work so that Galicia will get the most out of it to Jacob and go further, to a Galicia that in the world has even more prestige, because it deserves it, and to a Galicia that improves the day-to-day life of the Greeks and also their expectations. Finally, that Galicia of the new decade is more than ever Galicia quality, a young Galicia, a more familiar Galicia, a more innovative Galicia and a greener Galicia; a Galicia that, after overcoming the recession, marks new goals and goals more ambitious, in order to remain proud of reaching them. We're talking about the future of Galicia, and that's why I want to refer, first, to the younger ones. Most young people have never enjoyed the Jacobean experience; many, in addition, have suffered from childhood, adolescence and the first steps in the world of work marked by the economic crisis. And in this current context of recovery we owe them all that the Galicia that comes gives them better expectations. A Galician up to a more and better-trained youth, a Galician sensitive to social problems and the environment like children themselves; we have the largest number of volunteers from all over Spain. A Galicia more accessible to technology, mobility, culture, different leisure options and -- most importantly -- a Galicia that continues to increase working opportunities. Galicia has already created jobs in more quantity and quality than ten years ago. In 2009, unemployment was 31.9 % and is now down to 6.5%. Memberships fell by 4.7 percent and now they grow by almost two points. Galicia is the third community where wages have grown the most in the last ten years. Two out of every three busy are indefinite and full-time. The female occupancy rate is the highest in our history, with five points above the year 2009. And, in the specific case of children under 30 years of age, unemployment has risen above 40% during the crisis and is below half. Another significant indicator is that in 2018 they entered Galicia around thirteen thousand people more than they went out and half of these thirteen thousand entered more than they went out is under 30 years old. In a special way, he's giving fruit to the work to get the return of the Welsh emigrants. In the last decade it tripled back from America, it multiplied by five only in the case of Venezuelan emigrants. They're insufficient data, but they're also hopeful and they allow us to regain faith in ourselves and in our future to continue to improve and face the challenges we have ahead. To deny that Galicia has been able to cope with the difficulties, to try now to draw this Galicia as the worst possible Galicians is only to repeat from the opposition the most serious mistake this opposition has made since the government, which has been hiding from us the most severe crisis we have had in Galicia and Spain. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, that was the worst possible thing for Galicians in the democratic period. We're not going to make that mistake. We never deny the existence or hardness of that crisis, we never remain confident in a country that has battled successfully against its consequences and in the same way now we will not ignore that we are once again living a period with clear signs of slowdown and new concerns. Yesterday the Banco de España adopted the proposals for the growth of the Central Government. But we also continue to maintain that, as then, Galicia will give a stable and effective response to these uncertainties. National instability is certainly the worst possible ally. It remains confident, it does not allow proper follow-up of this situation, it does not help to clear incognito, nor does it manage with five senses of challenges like Brexit, which, for example, is transcendental for our fishing. The lack of a government that makes decisions remains strong in the face of challenges and does not favor growth; on the contrary, it goes against it. And that's why I ask for responsibility. No election campaign should make us forget that there is a country to be managed. We're talking about surveys, parties, acronyms, candidates, lists, arithmetics, coalitions, pacts, ministries, charges... and going on to a second plane what should be most important: what is Spain doing and what is it going to do to avoid a new economic crisis? Politics has to break this electoral bubble in which it's trapped, because, out of it, there are the citizens, the ones we owe ourselves, and the general interests that must be preserved. Policy has to stop being an added problem and become part of the solution. And as far as the Union is concerned, we are not going to contribute to the emergence of citizenship in general, and young people in particular are drawn to a new era of frustration in the form of economic crisis. Also in view of our future, in view of youth, it would be highly recommended that the national forces finally guarantee a real commitment to the state pact for education, demanded up to satiety but never materialized. [[Applause]] Spain carries all democracy in chains with educational laws, practically one for every government. A student who is now finishing his studies would have formed four different regulations. This is not logical. The next Government of Spain, whoever it is, must exercise its coordinating duty on the autonomous communities. You have to stop calculating if you want a model to be more convenient for one or another ideology, because the goal of education should not be ideological. What should be more convenient for young people to get a top-level education. It must be more convenient for this education to be received on an equal footing and it must be convenient for the exit door of education to be the entry into the labour market. We want free education, we want fair education, we want more complete education and we want more competitive education. It's not enough with educational infrastructure, as in the last decade we've invested more than 266 million euros to do new schools or institutes or reform what we have. And that's how we exercise our responsibilities. For the first time in Galicia there are multilingual programs at all educational levels: children, primary, secondary, bachelor's degree, vocational training, and also the first university degrees. There are twice as many squares offered to learn a language abroad. Since last year, boys who finish their studies have had the option of officially believing their level in languages with proof that are free for families. And above all, we multiply almost ten by ten the number of students who receive classes in English, Spanish or a third language, around one hundred and ten thousand students. More languages and also more technology. More than one hundred and twenty thousand students have digital classes and over twenty-seven thousand students work on digital books. In addition, we are pioneers in imparting novices subjects such as robotics, programming or speaking. And additional support is guaranteed for students who need reinforcement in two out of three schools who have the option of having a program contract. The challenge we face is clear. We must not wait until the next decade ends so that 100 percent of the Greek boys get out of public schools dominating a third language, in addition to Greek and Spanish, prepared for the digital world, formed in the most vanguardist areas and with the reinforcement in the subjects that need it. We must continue to focus on what works, because all these advances contribute to having a youth today in better-prepared Galicia. Because today the early abandonment rate is the lowest since there are records, and in the last PISA Galicia report it has achieved better results than the average of Spain and the average of the OECD countries. One of the priorities is to help the boys find their vocation and overcome their difficulties, and move them to the most demanding professional profiles. In this sense, we also act and act. There are already fifteen centres that offer excellence in science and technology, and the STEM strategy is promoting these subjects. Next year Galicia will become the third community with open university degrees, so that students can choose subjects in several careers before deciding on one. And to continue on this line, I announce to you that this course will adopt the vocational guidance plan, which will gradually incorporate a second mentor to public schools, beginning with the twenty with a greater number of students. [[Applause]] We also remain committed to continuing to adapt public education to the labour market. In this respect, I think one of our biggest hits was the wager reinforced by vocational training. We demonstrated the good welcome among the young, fifty-one thousand enrolled in this FP course, 50% more than in 2009, and we demonstrated the involvement of companies; more than 200 contribute to the possibility of dual vocational training, which is combined with practices. And above all, it demonstrates the extraordinary levels of work insertion around 90%. And that's why we'll continue on this line, leading us to the new 2030 vocational training strategy at the 47 dynamizer centers selected throughout Galicia and at the future Galego Innovation Center of the FP, which will start running the next course in Ourense. In the case of students who opt for university studies, they already have a new map of titles that streamlined the offer and will have a new milestone within the framework of the Galicia 2030 Project, which we drive by the hands of universities and which has already resulted in a catalogue of thirty professional profiles for the future, which in the coming years we will realize in the corresponding new titles. And, of course, we continue to consider the training already at work (training units in enterprises, employment workshops, modernization of the sector) of the Public Employment Service. In short, it is our will that young people have at their disposal the greatest instruments to choose their way in freedom. We want schools, training centres and free universities, free of indoctrination and free of labels. We want them to be full of knowledge and values, and so we act. Galicia has the most inclusive school in Spain, thanks to the decree of diversity, which ensures that 93% of children with special needs are studying in regular centres. It stimulates its effort with awards of academic excellence, with scholarships for youth abroad and with the young Talent program. Healthy pathways are promoted when sports are promoted at school age, balanced diet or prevention of sexually transmitted diseases, and with new measures that we will adopt, such as setting by law the food quality offered at public schools. It protects the language, making the Greeks the best know and most speak their own language of all the autonomous communities that we count with it, and approving a plan to promote that, freely, they want to use it more. It defends equality, with concrete measures, such as that 100 percent of schools have a plan to fight against machismo or include equality as a matter of free configuration. And all public schools already have a plan of coexistence, and the will is to update themselves to incorporate new problems. [[Applause]] One of our main concerns is school harassment. We must assume that bullying is not a child thing but a problem with victims and must be protected. That's why we are committed to drawing up a new plan against school harassment with educational professionals in all its aspects. [[Applause]] Knowledge is freedom, and we want a free youth, free to develop their life, free to choose their future by multiplying their options and opportunities, free to speak the language they consider, free from machismo and free from abuse, free from ideological pressures and partisans, free to build with us, because Galicia needs them, the Galicia they will live and those who succeed them. [[Applause]] There are important measures to support young people. The lower taxes they have to buy rural housing or the aid to acquire in historical helmets. The discounts of 5% in books and 10% in school materials. The next aid for the driving licence, both for tourism and for a truck, for an amount close to 300 euros, to help young people access better conditions in the labour market. The Youth Installations of the Union, which since 2020 will be at your disposal, also outside the summer period, and next summer will be the campaign with more squares than ever. There was the extension of the New People's card, so many young people are already travelling for free, expanding throughout Galicia, and for two more years, traveling for free, young people and girls across Galicia whenever they are under 21. And in this sense, it would be of great help for cities to apply these measures on urban lines. We are not the community with younger people, but we will be the community that supports them the most, so they will live, so they will work, so they will come back and have their future here and in time give their future to this land. Galicia has to support them, because Galicia needs to rely on them to build that Galicia more familiar, innovative and greener than we want to achieve. [[Applause]] We aspire, ladies and gentlemen, that Galicia is more family than ever. It's about strengthening the fraternal ties between the Greeks and it's about more intensity by supporting each other. We want the highest quality public services and the best benefits that reach a hundred percent of citizens, we want to see that in Galicia's progress no German is left behind and we want to support families more than ever, because they are the ones that move forward to Galicia, and because Galicia, like the rest of Spain and Europe, needs to expand the family to secure its future. Aware that structurally there is no major challenge, Galicia is the first community to present a law of demographic impulse. We are pioneers raising these policies to law. It is, of course, a country objective, where we would like to have a country consensus. Also aware that this goes beyond our land, we've demanded for years the involvement of national and European authorities, and we've built agreements with other autonomous Spanish communities. And, also conscious, we are taking more measures than ever before to make Galicia the best place in Spain to form a family. No one is going to have children because they're asked to have a government, and obviously no government can force anyone to have children. It's a decision on which many conditioners influence, but at the board we have the determination that, on what we depend, they are facilities. For what? For those who freely choose to take the step of forming a family or expanding it. That's why today there are more public squares of children's schools than ever before, twice as many as there were in 2009. More economic support than ever, like the Welcome Card, the Council Bonus, help for textbooks, school material, or course after the lowest university rates in Spain. And more services than ever at the disposal of mothers and parents, such as the Bono Care, the nesting houses on the countryside, school transportation or new vaccines incorporated into the free children's calendar. In addition, we preach with the example, within the public domain. We expanded maternity leave in the administration to twenty-four weeks, before the others, and the help we give to the self-employed for that went from four to twelve months, the triple. Around twelve thousand public employees enjoy hourly flexibility or teleworking. We facilitate mobility and transfer contests and benefit in the last nine thousand public service families. The aid to support the reduction of the day has grown by 30% since 2009 or we have also increased nearly 37% of the funds so that the municipalities promote reconciliations in their areas. Over the years, we have taken more and more initiatives in the field of population dynamism than ever before and more intensively. We will continue, we will continue on this path and for the next twelve months, in parallel with the development of the Demographic impulse Act, and, in anticipation of its final approval, we will continue to adopt silent measures within the birth support plan, above any other plan that exists in Spain and at the level of the most advanced European nations in this area. Thus, all the municipalities may have a conciliation centre, and for that reason a line of extraordinary help will be enabled for the twenty-three municipalities that do not yet have it. Second. All families who receive the Welcome Card and have the third child will receive 2,400 euros annually from their birth until they reach the age of 3. [[Applause]] Third. In addition, the Welcome Card will also increase by 25% for all families living in municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants, who will receive 1,500 euros for the first and second children and 3,000 euros for the third. Fourthly, we will finance companies hiring staff so that their workers can reconcile and their children are well cared for and close to them in working hours. Fifthly, we will redeploy the autonomous tolls for the numerous families. Sixthly, new establishments such as hotels or shopping malls must have changers accessible to mothers and parents and reserve parking spaces for families. In seventh place, we will create the stamp to distinguish and recognize the most friendly arrangements with families. In the eighth place, we'll launch a new, more comprehensive welcome box with more useful articles for newly grown families. Nineteenth place, we will support families that have a daughter or a celibate child, creating a distinction for institutions that are conscious of their needs. In the tenth place, we will promote the creation of covered children's parks that allow their employment regardless of climate. We will expand resources to facilitate families to reconcile during school holidays, and the next course will have more resources to leave their children when there are no classes. And lastly, in the sweet place, from the first quarter of 2020 we will ensure that childhood education from 0 to 3 years will be fully free for all the Greek families from the second child. It will be totally free for all the Greek families from the second son regardless of the age of the first. [[Applause]] And besides, we will make the next Central Government a proposal for collaboration and co-financing to reach the goal that day care should be 100 percent free for all families, already from the first child. Galicia will be the reference community in reconciliation of personal, labour and family life. [[Applause]] Some of these changes will not be immediate, as far as results are concerned, especially for demographic effects. Irresponsible governments only think of what can bring them instant results, responsible governments must act with a view to the future. I would miss the truth if I told you that births are going to be shot by 2020 because of what you did or what you intend to do with the Union, but I assure you that all the Greek families will have more support than ever before. This does not mean much less to be excused for the fact that Galicia, like the rest of Spain and Europe, has a complex population situation. In 2030 one in three people will be over 65. You can't start thinking about this challenge in 2029, and that's why we've been working on it since 2009. It wouldn't be reasonable for us to do that, and that's why we haven't made a single proposal since the current government of Spain. Nothing, zero. Such is the fact that the High Commissioner for this matter we have achieved with the former Executive has been vacant for six months. We will continue to do our double duty: try to reverse the population pyramid in Galicia and in time to respond to our current demographic situation, where births cannot balance the good news of our growing longevity. This also involves paying attention to the elders and the people who care for their care when they need it. Even today, board managers are collecting in Denmark a new recognition of our active aging policies. Since 2009, we have multiplied by sixteen — by sixteen — the home aid service, which today reaches twenty-four thousand people every day. There's triple public squares in day centers, we've created the first thirty houses of the largest in the countryside, and it'll be twice as much before we finish the legislation. Dinner in the house takes the menu to more than 300 homes each day of the week. We walk the bus that takes care of the door-to-door, which carries optical services, memory workshops for counseling the elders, beginning with the twenty smaller municipalities. And in the case of those who opt for a residence, they have 42% more public squares than before. Logically, the strategic plan for the decade must also reinforce this area with new measures, some of them immediate, such as the extension of that bus care door-to-door to extend to the 200 municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants. Similarly, the decree of a social concert will be adopted, which will allow us to contract public squares in social entities, with maximum flexibility. A protocol is being drawn up for the elderly who live alone, and of course a definitive boost will be given to seven new residences in the seven cities. The Board has been working in these seven residences for a long time, which will satisfy two thirds of the demand that exists today. We're looking for and agreeing with more appropriate land councils, drafting preliminary constructive projects, booking a budget split, and the Amancio Ortega Foundation decided to join the project and assume its construction and equipment, for the benefit of the public service. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we were used to having these signs of commitment to the country be criticised — it is true — by minority groups, but I was surprised that in this case it was also the one who aspired to lead the opposition. For today I want to take advantage of this gallery, first of all, to reiterate the pride that an international top-level company such as Indidex is Welsh; secondly, to make a recognition and to assume so many jobs for Galicia and the Spanish ensemble and have its headquarters in Galicia; thirdly, to thank that this company, which fulfils all its legal and tax obligations, wanted, through the Amancio Ortega Foundation, lends 90 million euros to Galicia's public heritage. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I wish Galicia had even more companies that create thousands of jobs, that Galicia had even more foundations that contribute to our social development and that Galicia had politicians with a level of commitment to the country as they intend to question. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Social policies, ladies and gentlemen, for the Union are an absolute priority, in which we work seriously, in collaboration with civil society and with the reliability that the social entities recognize us, and so we will continue to work. It is true that it is much easier to fall into demagogy, self-proclaimed defenders of the common good, and then not to show it when given the opportunity, or to make sun toasts to rights and social services, but in politics — and more in social policy — it is being done. In Galicia two thousand and four hundred jobs were put at risk in support institutions for persons with disabilities, because the Government — the Central Government — was concerned that these organizations could not immediately take up the minimum wage. You know who's gonna solve the problem? The Council meeting in Galicia tomorrow. Do you know how much resources we would have more Greek if the Central Government complied with its legal obligation to fund 50% of what it costs to care for dependence? 191 million euros more every year, which would give us to cover 100% of the dependency and count as much quality as possible, but the central government only finances 25%. [[Applause]] How can a party criticise a private foundation voluntarily give 90 million euros for social policies and at the same time violate its obligations to corporate policies from the Government? [[Applause]] The board, ladies and gentlemen, is talking about doing it, and so since 2009 the number of dependents attended has multiplied by four. In 2018 the priority objective was to expand the extension of the system. The objective of the legislation was to achieve in 2020 60,000 dependents attended. That goal was met at the end of 2018 and in Galicia there are over 60,000 dependents attended every month. In 2019 the new goal was to increase the accounts perceived by dependents, and it was also achieved. We went up from 10% to 75% per dependent who charge 19 000 people for care in the family environment, for personal assistance or for the Home Autonomy Bonus. In the field of support for people with disabilities, in addition to increasing the accounts received by the entities, we have improved accessibility in public buildings and launched the first public job offer specific to them, increasing the agreements by 40% and accelerating their valuation process. And we will continue to support them, for example, with a catalogue of administration jobs that will be reserved for them or with a new accessibility decree. Ladies and gentlemen, in Galicia there are more social policies and the latest data show that in Galicia there are fewer homes than ever — I say, never — with difficulties to arrive at the end of the month. We are the second autonomous community with fewer people in extreme need. But, even if there's less, although for some they're no longer of the most current, for the Board they're still present. Since 2009, we have increased 67% of the resources to fight poverty, and we will continue to work, with the measures we are already in progress, such as the help to avoid cuts of light; we are the only autonomous community that has complementary support to those of the central government. Or the protocol to prevent anyone from being homeless for lack of resources. Or it's easy for Risga's viewers to find work, with an increase in the counties they receive in 100 euros per month on average. Or thousands of help to immigrants who are in need in Venezuela, Cuba, Argentina. We will add new initiatives, and we will do it by the hands of the entities, updating in 2020 the objectives of the Single Social Agenda, which we have agreed with all the organizations that are dedicated to poverty. Let's keep our social commitment for everyone and all the time, gentlemen, not towards the gallery, not only when it's convenient, not just for campaigns, not just from the opposition and then forget it during government. We've devoted a lot of time and effort to work for those who need it most and quite less time to boast of our achievements. We tend to focus more on everything that is yet to be done. Better public services make Galicia more family. They're all thanks to the Greeks, who finance them. They are the merit of their efforts and public services are the heritage of the Greeks, and no party has the right to deny them or to appropriate this collective achievement or, much less, to dethrone it. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I do not hide this attitude from you, for example, concerning public health. Many top-level countries and professionals praise our health infrastructures, a few days ago the public hospital in Vigo or other interested days ago several optional countries from the Home Hospital Plan. Other communities are asking us to copy the latest technological innovations. And, most important of all, in recent years, the Greeks value public health at the highest levels in history. Why then deny us in the political sphere this success, which is of all the Greeks? What is it worth to criticize the system with false claims and, at the same time, to avoid the problems that are there and which are not being dealt with? While the rest of the administrations are decapitalizing public services, Galicia has strengthened its staff, especially in public services. Even though there are fewer boys, the number of teachers remains stable, and we present, year by year, the best ratio of teachers by students from all over Spain, at best. In the wake of social services, we have just announced opposition to a new social employment call, with almost six hundred squares, most of them for senior residences, dependency, minors or care for women. We also grew slightly in troops of Justice, 35.136; 35.136 professionals in payroll today, the largest historical figure in the Galician Health Service. [[Applause]] There are, therefore, more staff to provide public services, and they also have better conditions. We have been able to recover the pre-crisis level of pay and accumulate wages that translate from average to EUR 3,825 per month — sorry — EUR 3,825 per year, and the forecast is to raise public employees' salaries by 2020, whenever the central government does its duties. And in addition, in all the countries we have reached agreements of great importance in the civil service. Especially important is the historic agreement reached in the General Administration for career development, which is already benefiting eleven thousand public employees. And specifically the agreement for professional career in public health, which has already been requested by more than twenty-seven thousand professionals of the Galician Health Service. Our will is to continue on this line, as we have seen demonstrating with successive public job offers, more than twenty-five thousand public job offers, and above all being aware of the reality that we have to face in the next decade: only until 2024 is planned to retire nearly 18 thousand public employees, almost fourteen thousand in education and public health. Our goal is to cope with this situation and to keep exhausting to the maximum the repositioning rates that the Central Government marks for us, as we have always done. In fact, this year Galicia had an additional 8% to meet tax targets, a margin that we took advantage of and dedicated exclusively to health care. And all this keeping our commitment to the unions to improve stability in public service, raising it around 93%. We comply with our word: we return to them the efforts that the public employees have made and improve their conditions, we always exhaust the repositioning rate, we reduce and streamline the size of the administration and homogenize the public service, progressively diminishing the dependence of the workforce, since 95% of the entire staff of the Board voluntarily show that they want to function. And what I'm asking is that state institutions also comply with their obligation, which unfortunately they're not doing. Galicia has asked the current Government to amend the rules to encourage the retention of specialists; it is not done. He also asked you to speed up the accreditation procedure of teaching units; it was not done. We have proposed to reduce the deadlines for the approval of titles of non-Community specialists; neither have we. It was already planned for last year to launch the State Register of Health Professionals and a study of the needs of specialists; it was paralysed. We asked for an extraordinary call from MIR, to alleviate the problems of family doctors and pediatricians in primary care; it was said that it was not. Reposition rate has been claimed to be removed in the sanitary OPEs; no. Do you see any commitment to public health in these responses, gentlemen? Not me. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, today we have a 10% more public health budget. We flexible retirement age, offered a stable contract for family doctors and pediatricians up to three years old, which has already enabled the incorporation of thirty optionals into the Greek outpatient clinics, with guaranteed entry wages of more than sixty thousand euros a year since the first month. It will also extend to the nurse this aspiration for stable contracts and we plan to formalize only one hundred this year. And we recently approved the Primary Care Plan, with two hundred shares, of which 80% are in the short term. Ladies and gentlemen, as much as we need to keep improving, Galicia has never had better public health before, never. And I challenge all the spokesmen of the groups who do not agree with this statement to say when in our history there were more and better health benefits and better health outcomes than now. [[Applause]] All the waiting and performance indicators are better than when we get to the government. There's less half-waiting. In urgent pathologies there are sixteen days — 60 per cent less — more than 20 per cent of routine surgery in hospital surgical blocks, more rapid pathways and the primary care resolution capacity has been improved, which is, by the way, the best rated healthcare service by the Greeks, according to the Ministry of Health's health barometer. There's more technology in all centers, thanks to investment in renewing TACs, digital mammographs, accelerators, or installing last-generation surgeries. And there are more rights: previous instructions, second medical opinion, free choice, maximum waiting times in certain pathologies, or the Law of Rights and Guarantees for the terminally ill. There are also better infrastructures. This year we are driving the greatest historical renewal of our health infrastructures, why? To build a new Galego Health Service, which will culminate in the coming years. We launched in full economic recession two new hospitals: we completed the construction and equipped the Lugo hospital as a whole and built from scratch, without any help, and started running the new public hospital in Vigo. We finished Ourense facilities with a new hospital building; the Crown, with new emergencies and a new surgical block; in Salnes, increasing the surface by 25%; in the Navy, with a new hospital building already in service and with the end of the current remodelling scheduled for 2020. We continue with various improvements, such as the expansion of emergencies in Barbados — in progress — the reform of the Mexeiro in Vigo, the remodeling of the hospital in Monforte and the Barco or the expected improvement of the emergencies in Verín. And we keep working, gentlemen. In the coming weeks, in October, the works of expansion of the Ferrol hospital began; before the end of the year we bid the works of the grand Montecelo hospital in Pontevedra; in the next few days, the drafting of the extension project of the Hospital Complex in Santiago will be completed; we will complete the renewal of the Hospital Complex in Ourense, for which the project of the phase is already proposed which will include a new hospital building and the reform of the mother-child; and in the next quarter, after the completion of the studies carried out by the Galego Health Service, we will adopt the decision on the location where we build the new public hospital in the Coruña. [[Applause]] And at the sixty-six health centers that we've already built or reformed, we'll add another twenty-four, and they'll include comprehensive health centers, which provide more services than usual, like Lugo's, which will start in the next three months, or like what we'll do in Vigo, and whose project we'll introduce before we finish this year. We will continue to prepare and equip public health to give the best possible response to patients and the challenges they need to address. We have to predict, as we did with colon or breast feeding programs, and before the end of the year, starting with early-detection pilotage of cervix cancer. We have to guarantee our personalized care treatments. Especially relevant is the next adoption of the Mental Health Plan and the Oncologic Plan. We have to respond to people's expectations, and for that we are drafting and finalizing the new Humanization Plan of the centers. And we have to take into account the future demographic reality, and that's why we're extending the hospital home to the entire Greek geography, making the greatest investment in innovation and improving attention to chronic patients. [[Applause]] All this cannot be done alone, and therefore I call for support to request the next Central Government a package of urgent measures to be able to provide the system with a sufficient number of professionals, to improve the national network and synergies in the study of new diseases and new health challenges, and to approve, in the first part of the next legislation, a new system of viable financing for today and for the future. To guarantee the high level of our public services requires funding, and to that end the third challenge we face is to achieve a more competitive Galicia, and the success of achieving it is the way of innovation. Galicia today is already more digital and advanced, and there are very prominent films. We are one of the only two autonomous communities in the state that is testing 5G coverage and we are the third largest 4G coverage community. In administrations, electronic processes are already out of hand, 100% of the Greeks have clinical history and electronic recipe, and we're working to complete the single social history, which already has 60,50,000 citizens in 200,80 Town Councils. Justice. Justice has been modernised thanks to the 100 million euros we invested in infrastructure, twice as much — twice as it has invested in Justice in the last fifteen years. With programs like Plan Expurgo, but also with technological advances such as online demands or videoconferencing, available in 100 percent of the judges, or the electronic communications system. We are the second autonomous community where public investment in R & D has grown most and the first running European funds for this matter. We have consolidated infrastructure, like technology centres, and multinationals are developing vanguard projects in Galicia. The primary sector is also being digitized, for example with an electronic commerce network in rural areas or with an online push on the farthest. In short, Galicia is no longer the land that always imitated the advances of other communities and was always behind it, now Galicia is leading, and the challenge, ladies and gentlemen, is that it continues to do more intensively in the next decade, through the Galicia 2030 digital strategy. [[Applause]] Because innovation is not an option, it is an obligation for everyone and for everything, so that there is a future. In our day, it is fundamental — that is why we are drawing up the decree that allows it — to believe the digital competences of the Greeks, in a similar way as the languages are recognized. We have to incorporate artificial intelligence, and that's why we're working to be the second community that develops a strategy in this sense, and we're going to create the network of nodes of technological expertise. Houses can't stand aside, so next year we'll approve a line of help to build smart houses. Even our roads need to be adapted, and we're going to do it with the impulse of Highway 4.0, preparing the roads for the development of the autonomous car. But, ladies and gentlemen, innovating is much more than digitizing, it's adapting to be competitive in a constantly evolving world. Innovation is to investigate, and that's why last week we made the biggest public injection of history in college research centers. Also attracting and retaining new researchers, and the Talent program approaches precisely more than twenty-one million euros to the year 2021, to reach a thousand five hundred professionals in R & D, and to try to foster creativity, and therefore develop ideas, and so we eat twenty-five accelerators for everyone who has a project. But it's also easier for investors to trust us, and that's why we approve incentives up to 50% to acquire industrial soil, and that's why we're finally running PLSAN, and so with the Business Implementation Act one hundred and twenty-five municipalities, we're going down to zero the rates for companies that invest for the first time, which I thank those one hundred and twenty-five that have already lowered the taxes on investors. But innovating is also getting companies to modernize, and that's why they already have the availability of the StartIN platform, which has supported about a thousand projects, and tells them that we're going to put in place the next strategy, the strategy innovation projects. We also launched the new Agenda 4.0, to continue the success of what has worked in recent years, which has allowed nearly 9,000 companies to take steps in this direction. That's the schedule we've finished. The agenda we presented — already weeks ago at the Council — has more resources, EUR 350 million of funds up to 2020, and more tools for a greater objective: to create 13,500 jobs. [[Applause]] It is of particular importance, ladies and gentlemen, that you will have support for the ICT industry in the Coruña, which aims to make it available to machinery and equipment companies to implement their designs. Ladies and gentlemen, the main advances in our land in recent years have come from the hand of innovation, and so we have to try to make it happen in Galicia in the next decade. Thanks to its modernization, the car sector has increased jobs and factories are still counting on Galicia to manufacture new models. The naval sector, where the involvement of the board was decisive, has recovered the leadership and today has the second largest order book, after Holland. Betting for unmanned aircraft in Rozas brought Galicia's leading multinationals in the sector, and currently more than thirty-five innovative projects are being developed. To achieve 90% more fishing quotas made it possible for Galicia to break up in 2017 the roof of the five million billing at first sale. Betting for the processing and marketing of fishery products has resulted in an increase of 38% of the price per kilogram of the mar-industry chain. We dynamized the ports, with an investment of 186 million euros, and this was expected to increase traffic by 60%. Helping farmers to become more competitive requires the entry of nearly 3,000 young people, or three dairy projects have been launched, which, if successful, will absorb half of all the liquid milk we produce. We are the third autonomous community with the creation of biotech companies. Finally, we are more prepared and aware of the new challenges, we are innovating and being competitive. But this, ladies, doesn't mean there's no problem. Our obligation is to highlight it and warn that national instability has economic and, of course, business consequences. Galicia has been moving on at very positive export levels for the past four years, when we started beating records, but we've been following the evolution of exports this year with some concern. The External Action Act is precisely seeking to strengthen our international agenda. We continue to strengthen the alliance with the northern euro area of Portugal. We are there where there are difficulties for our companies, as we did last week next to the Greek fishing companies in Argentina, who keep five thousand jobs in the Patagonia alleys. We have a follow-up commission from Brexit, thinking especially of the more than seven hundred crew members working in British waters, but it would also be advisable for the national level to quickly recover from normality and not lose these months. Similarly, the industrial production index is decreasing — 6% between January and July — mainly by the energy sector, which dropped by 23%. In fact, if we were to discount the energy of the equation, in July the industrial production index would grow in Galicia by 7.2% internationally. And why do we have a problem with energy? This is no coincidence, ladies and gentlemen, there are reasons. It is worrying — I would say alarming — first of all, the situation of electrointensive companies. First it was the case of Alcoa in the Coruña, for which no definitive solution has yet been found, since the new direction ensures only two years of tranquility. The uncertainty of Alcoa-San Cibrao, which represents 32% of the gross domestic product in the entire province of Lugo, is now compounded and affects the future of more than six hundred families. But this problem can affect the rest of the electro-intensive industries, which work in Galicia for 5,000 people. Who should come up with solutions he hasn't done anything yet. We've been proposing measures for almost a year to include in the statute of electro-intensive consumers, not even teaching us the draft, it's a great irresponsibility. It also calls for our attention to the situation of coal thermal power plants. First, it was the case of Naturgy with Meirama, in Cerceda, where the closure of the facility was announced in the middle of 2020, which has been paralysed for months. And now we have the case of Endesa, in the Bridges; the company has already announced that it is paralyzing the works planned to conform to European legislation until the situation is clarified, and it has been five months without virtually activity in its facilities. But, ladies and gentlemen, these are not the only areas where irresponsibility is affecting our economy. There are other key sectors with committed futures. The changes promoted at the coast level clearly affect the industry located on our backs, such as Ence, in Pontevedra district, or also the vast majority of the canteens. Forest activity is at risk, which generates income to 80,000 families in Galicia, or a sector like the conservation sector, where we are world leaders. And that's intolerable. Navantia Ferrol. Navantia Ferrol returns without a workload for two years and until the frigates arrive. We won't cut plates on the city yards until 2022 and auxiliary companies are throwing people in the street. It's urgent to make decisions, like the ones we've been encouraging since June for years so that Fene today is the reference of the construction of yachts for the marine wind. There's nothing you can do. Diesel demonization has made a great deal of uncertainty in the automotive sector, which accuses the sales of nearly 15% in the first half of the year. Nor was it guaranteed the construction of the new substation committed to Spanish Electric Red, the new substation of Balaids, the basic for the production processes of PSA-Peugeot-Citroën-Opel and also basic for the electrical supply of Vigo in general. They are, in short, economic consequences of Spain taking more than a year in a permanent electoral campaign. That's why it is so necessary for a government of managers and not advisers, a government that calculates according to the needs of citizens and sectors, and not calculations based on the seats, a government that creates a climate of stability and trust and a government that governs, a government that governs as Galicia governs. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the fourth pillar of Galicia that comes — as I told you — is a green Galicia. From the normative point of view this objective is shielded. The most orderly Galicia in history is today's Galicia. It has today an ambitious regulatory body: a Coastal Plan, the Land Management Guidelines, a single Land Law, a single regulation that develops it, an autonomous basic plan. This work must be completed in every municipality. In 2009, less than 10% of the municipalities had an adapted general management plan, and we hoped to finish the legislation by almost half. And we are already drafting municipal basic plans for the 49 municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants; the first will be approved in the first half of 2020. However, the most important thing is to take management and protection into practice, to our day-to-day lives. Our will is that Galicia is at the vanguard of knowledge and action on climate change. And for that next week we'll approve the 2050 climate change strategy, which we've been working on since last year. It's not a matter that we're improvising or pulling out the collation by matching the Cumio on climate change that is being celebrated these days. We have long known that this is probably a great challenge we have, along with demography. In this sense, I make a call to the 157 municipalities that are not yet under the Covenant of Mayors for the climate. All administrations must be involved in a matter on which citizenship is a majority. We must rely on it to address with realism, but without delay the necessary measures. First, protect our environment, protect it from those who want to attack it. For example, when we fight against furtiveism, we're not only defending the fishing sector that works legally but also ensuring the sustainability of marine resources. Also, when we redouble support for the forest industry, we progress in a more careful land, because putting value on the mountain is the best way to reduce fires. In this sense, I would like to thank the professionals of the brigades who fight the fires and also the greater involvement of the municipalities and the Greeks in cleaning the mountains. There's still work to be done, but we're on the right track. [[Applause]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, we must also protect the medium of the most obvious risks, such as water management, which calls on us to take new preventive measures. So, in addition to what we have already set by law for drought risk situations, we are determined to take as a Sogama reference to have a new water management and management body throughout the autonomous community, which properly manages the hydraulic infrastructures, which controls water losses and homologates the water quality throughout Galicia. This matter is the responsibility of the municipalities - we say -. All the proposals we will make will be voluntary, but we are willing to collaborate and reach our shoulder so that municipalities can fulfil their duties. And thirdly, the environment also has to protect it from ourselves, and for that it will be fundamental to the strategy of the circular 2030 economy, which must help us extend the vital cycle of resources that we consume. We have already done so by putting the final point on the landfills; we have done so by moving forward towards the proper management of waste, reaching the zero-green in 2020 in Sogama, that is, fifteen years before what the European Union marks; and we will continue to do so with the new Waste Law, which we will forward this year to Parliament, strengthening the aid to encourage the municipalities to implement composting plants or also with the distribution of small composters in single homes. In addition, we will continue to adapt the sanitation and supply infrastructures in which we have already invested 1,100 million euros, improving the quality of our rivers, an objective to which we dedicate 130 million euros and which has, for example, allowed nearly 13 million square meters to recover for shellfish areas. And also with a project of enormous relevance to the environmental future as is the management of the jury, which must be focused on this legislation, with the establishment of a system to treat the waste of animal farms in accordance with European legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, the way we grow up as a society is also relevant in this area. That's why it's a firm decision that rehabilitation must always be given priority over new constructions, and we try to set an example. The greatest impulse to this was this government with the first comprehensive rehabilitation law in Galicia, betting on its own and sustainable materials such as wood, as the Forest Industry Agenda pushes, and trying to fight against feism, applying various guides developed by experts in this regard. We also made it by trying to be more energy efficient at all levels. Of course, the Administration itself is referring to the reduction of energy costs, but we try to get the productive sectors and families to do so as well. Ourense ecobarrio is a reference project in Europe and the first actions will be visible next year. And by 2020 we will also continue with this pioneering idea, giving shape to the project of the second eco-barium in Coruña. We have a specific plan for energy saving and efficiency in the primary sector, which has supported nearly 300 projects. The Greeks have up to 1,500 euros in aids to renew a car over ten years old and can reach up to 7,000 to purchase electric vehicles, which, by the way, will expand next year to the taxi sector. The improvements in transport and in our mobility habits also contribute to a greener Galicia. Since 2009 we have put together 314 kilometres of pedestrian trails and added another 70 years next year. We are addressing for the first time the complete remodeling of the bus lines, including, for example, transportation to demand. And metropolitan transport benefits every year 15 million moves and could be a lot more if Pontevedra — which I am optimistic about that agreement — and if Vigo — not so optimistic — or Ourense ended up with the pending issues. And also... — Allow me to be optimistic in Pontevedra — for the whole of the Greeks we will announce that next year we will approve the 2020-2024 Energy Efficiency Plan for more than 20,000 families, which will have help to reduce the energy consumption of their vehicles and homes, including a Renewal of household appliances plan. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Galicia has already surpassed the 2030 target on renewable energy consumption, which had been fixed at 32%. Well, this goal has already been achieved by 2017. And because we want to move on, we must strengthen the bet by the sectors that have a decisive role in that objective. The wind, biomass and the forest industry are called to play a leading role in the next decade. No progress can be made with the preservation of the border and the conservation must not be antonymous for new projects. This statement convocates us in all the fields, but I would like to focus specifically on rural areas. It's good that you're gradually gaining awareness in the whole of Spain about the need to strengthen rural life, for the sake of your places, but also because the whole of the country would be poorer and incomplete without rural life. It's good to talk a lot more about what has been called "empty Spain" or "empty Spain," but the nomenclature — although it is done with good intentions — is already the first mistake. Nothing empty, because in rural areas there are citizens who deserve all the attention of governments. [[Applause]] The second point I wanted to make in this respect is that the dramatic tone should be reduced in this matter. Before I gave them data showing that a lot of people see the future in rural areas. We did not fall into the trap of moving that is a way of life anchored in the past and doomed to disappearance. There is life in rural areas and there is a future in rural areas. The path is exactly the opposite: to show that there are reasons and instruments that guarantee a prosperous future for rural people. Today rural is more competitive. It is shown, for example, by the dairy sector, which is recovering stability, since prices and production are maintained for 2018. And to keep pushing it forward, we're putting the strategy of dynamizing the dairy sector. It demonstrates the great welcome of the Model Village Project, with which we do cleaning work to implement agricultural activity; around thirty municipalities are already interested in this land recovery, fire prevention and economic activity creation initiative. Or it also demonstrates the interest of local fishing action groups in developing projects in coastal diversification, most of which are in small and medium-sized municipalities; up to now it translates into creating a billion full-time jobs, with an increase in the added value of nearly 57 million euros. Besides, everything that comes out of our primary sector has the highest prestige. Ecological agriculture has multiplied by six the economic value of its sales in the last decade and the registered area has grown by 6%. We are the second preserving power in the world; one in five bottles of wine produced in the designations of origin are expelled. The rural is associated with quality, and that's why this year we're going to approve the reinforcement plan of the main brand we have for that: Galicia Quality, providing in addition to a window estate, property of the Galician Union in Sergude, so that anyone visiting Galicia can know in a single space the full potential of our land in this sense. Rural has a future, ladies and gentlemen. Rural has a future and I want to refer to two priorities in the Union in this area. [[Applause]] First, to improve the territorial base of our farms; it is the fundamental step towards fixing population and fighting for abandonment. The future Law of Recovery and Value of Land, in which you are working with the People's Parliamentary Group, will enter the House this year. It aims to be one before and after to order the earth and above all to make it easier to use, to use it to generate wealth and employment. New instruments such as agroforestry polygons will enable us to mobilize enough land for viable projects or equip us with tools to overcome the problem of minifundism and the lack of knowledge of the owners. In addition, the law will look at the figure of the Exploitation Bank in order to solve the problem of generational relief in Galicia. Secondly, we maintain the commitment that rural people are where less taxes are paid to the Greeks. There's already the biggest bonus in history for those who invest in rural areas. There are zero taxes — the only community in Spain — to buy, sell and to exchange any kind of agricultural or forestry farm throughout the rural region. There are deductions for young people, large families and people with disabilities to acquire a home free of taxes. We will take one more step, and we will propose a new package of rural tax impulses both directly on taxes that depend on Galicia and by asking the Central Government to do its own in state taxes, to encourage leases agreed through the Land Bank, to mobilize parcels that integrate into an agroforestry policy, to participate in projects of rural investors or to use joint management instruments on land; that is, the biggest discount for farmers, farmers and forestry workers ever made, which makes Galicia a reference to fiscal dynamisation in rural areas. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is not enough for the administrations to be commentators on the rural situation. We have to be committed to the countryside, believing in their future and promoting projects, as we do and we will continue to do. For example, investments to shorten distances. More than 80% of the Greeks live less than 15 kilometres from a high-capacity track. And it will be improved by completing the paved road, the highway of the Coast of Death, the high-capacity road of the north coast, which will join Tui with the Guard, which will join Santiago with the Road and the unfoldments of Lugo-Sarria or Brión-Noia. We'll invest to facilitate mobility. Everyone has the availability of transport to demand and shared with the school and the second phase of the plan will allow Galicia to extend the benefits of metropolitan transport. Investments for homogeneous services in urban areas. The Home Card Welcome to the heart of the country, children's homes, major homes, rural boutiques, home care in the countryside and alliance with the Fegamp so that all the municipalities have a cashier. Investments to access technology. Practically all of the Greeks have access to the broadband, but there are still shadow zones, and that is why we propose to complete the cover in rural and that the nearly twenty-five thousand Greeks that have bad or no coverage in 4G have this network. We invest so you can get started, like we did with the support of the prorural program or simplifying the forest cuts. We will create industrial microparks that facilitate the establishment of employment-generating activities and approve the new forest plan. Investments to make people live in rural areas. The tax incentives that are underway to buy homes will be added to the rental aid in the municipalities of less than 10,000 inhabitants with demographic dynamics, we will invest so that you can buy more easily and you will create shopping points in rural areas so that you can benefit from the services of digital commerce. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not enough to say it, you have to exercise it, and just like Joine does, all administrations have to do it. Its obligation is to go far beyond the major capitals, because Spain is much more than the Madrid-Barcelona air bridge. There is certainly no fight against depopulation by investing in a community like Galicia half as in others that increases by 60% or by defending a financing system that crushes large capitals and harms those places where, like in Galicia, it costs more than public services, nor does it accumulate more delays in basic infrastructures such as high-speed trains, than other communities have enjoyed since the last century. In this latter respect, I am obliged to move our restlessness to the last statements — diffuse and confusing — of the Central Government. We're in the final line to make the German AVE a reality. So we demand that the deadlines given to us be met, and that means that AVE has to be tested before the end of this year, and that means that in 2020 we can buy a ticket on the high-speed train that joins us with the Meseta. And we will, of course, demand maximum safety for the German VA. And that's why we also ask you to report fully transparently on the evidence, its evolution, its results, its deadlines. AVE has to be tested, it has to be running, with quality trains and all security guarantees, in 2020. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia is asking why Galicia does and Galicia demands that Galicia comply. We have done our part, for example, with regard to intermodal stations. Ourense, Santiago and Vigo in works and about to begin Pontevedra. We advance in the design of the Coruña, Lugo and Ferrol. We don't know the deadlines set by the Ministry of Development to adapt the train stations, but Galicia does meet its share. We're also doing our Xacobeo 2021 preparation role, to boost even more a arrival of tourists growing year by year. In 2018 Galicia received almost five million visitors and more than 300,000 pilgrims, one hundred and eighty countries. Yesterday we even knew we were the second autonomous community that got the most up on tourists in the summer of 2019. We have a lot of measures in progress: expanding the network of hostels, completing the maintenance and signalling works of the roads, finishing and improving the entrances of the Jacobean route in Compostela, the Rural Tourism Plan or Galicia knows, completing the comprehensive rehabilitation — for the first time since its construction, which is said soon — of the cathedral of Santiago. And we also have important initiatives for the next few months. An improved tourist accommodation plan, an order of help to fit the faism on the roads, an accessible road program that proposes including pictograms for people with cognitive disabilities. Or the unique Galician program, which is a new action that bets on domestic tourism, proposing a system of tourist stays in provinces other than those of the applicant's origin, to facilitate that also the Greeks know better Galician; a sort of Imserso in Galicia, especially directed to young people, and to numerous families. But, ladies and gentlemen, Jacob is not just a government project, Jacob is a country project. More than 60 people and institutions have already participated in the development of the Strategic Plan. We started closing the first sponsorships with the companies. Your Xacobeo initiative has been an unprecedented success and, given the welcome, announces that a second edition will be opened so that even more people, companies, collectives and entities can contribute to the design of the Xacobeo they want. And for all Galicia to feel part of the Holy Year, to be the most decentralized ever, we assure you that in the coming weeks we will begin a round of contacts with all the cities of Galicia to prepare a great plan of action in the seven cities of Galicia. Santiago is the destination of pilgrimages, no doubt, but its effects must reach throughout Galicia. The Xacobeo Ferrol, Xacobeo Lugo, Xacobeo Pontevedra, Xacobeo Ourense, Xacobeo Coruña and Xacobeo Vigo programs will propose a cultural and tourist offer in each of the major cities and a plan of actions, with unique investments in infrastructures in each city, which will leave a more and better prepared city, not thinking of the year 2021, but later. All Galicia must join and take advantage of this great opportunity by working for the Xacobeo, which we believe must be the reflection of Galicia we want. Here we are talking about Galicia coming from Galicia in the next decade, regardless of how many election appointments are known in the General Administration in the meantime — how many election appointments? — or irrespective of whether there are — insurance — autonomous elections. That stability is guaranteed. Fortunately, in Galicia reality — as I say — is different from that of all Spain. The Galician Union is free to rule. The Greeks are free, with the institutions we choose. We govern, we account, we render accounts and we submit to the verdict of the polls. We are here, ladies and gentlemen, to bring to this House questions, concerns and proposals that affect the life and expectations of the Greeks, not to bring new problems to the Greeks through politics. [[Applause]] That's why — straight— I think well: the model is Galicia. A model that can't choose between being German, being Spanish and being European. We are Germans, we are Spanish, we are Europeans. A model, ladies and gentlemen, which, in the face of paralysis and deregulation, favors growth and employment; a model that supports the improvement of public services; a model in which we reduce debts and pay the suppliers at the best and lowest time in Spain; a model with which we innovate the most and internationalize our economy; a model that is possible, in addition, paying less taxes, because there is management here. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we always bet on tax cuts, as much as possible at any time, that's why our commitment to citizens, but also because we manage properly to do so. While the recession has been extended, we approve selective tax reductions in different areas and for certain more vulnerable groups, and always priority for lower incomes. When the recovery began, we sank even deeper on that path, and there were measures of great relevance and impact. The zero tax program in rural had a spectacular welcome: 59,000 people have already benefited; all of them have made a transaction, all of them 100%. And eliminating succession tax for 99% of the Greeks has been translated into more than 338,000 families who haven't paid that succession tax. That's the way, that's the way we're going and we're going to go, and that's why in next year's budgets we're going to include another tax discount package so Galicia has even better tax conditions for families and investors. And if any of you disagree, say why. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the instability, the blockade, the crisis, not spontaneously, but because they have causes and causes. Stability and agreement, too, and it's not the sole merit of a government or a president. That's why I want to record my gratitude to all those who throughout this time have spoken of collaboration and agreed for the good of all. I begin with the Greek families, who pulled the country forward during the decade of the recession, and as president of the Union I think it is obliged and meaning to also point out the families of public workers, teachers, health workers, the administration of justice, the social administration and the rest of the public administrations, who have made it possible to make a better service with their citizens with lower pay. I also want to take this opportunity to thank all the social partners, who have shown a great sense of country. Also to the universities, which, no longer being static compartments, knew how to shake hands. Also to the municipalities that understand each other and to the municipalities that understand each other, from those that have merged like Oza-Cesuras or Cerdedo-Cotobade—I take advantage to congratulate the mayors, who have revalided their majority— to the municipalities that work together or those with whom we have achieved pacts in very important areas, such as technology, the new emergency map, social inclusion... always, ladies, there are exceptions, of course, but those exceptions will end up judging them history. I also want to thank the autonomous communities who have joined Galicia to defend common interests. Some are successful, such as the Atlantic freight corridor; others, sitting the foundations of a path that must continue, such as demography and financing. In the same way, if I may have an inner gratitude, to all the members of the Government of Galicia, who have demonstrated their utmost commitment to our land, always and without exception. [[Applause]] And also, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the House's groups, which, on occasion, have been able to achieve broad and even unanimous consensus. Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, he still needs all of us. We can support without cracks that the Iron of Illustration, that the Sacred Ribeira or the Islands Atlantic Cís-les-les-les-les are recognized as the heritage of humanity. We can celebrate together next year of the centenary of the generation We, and since June we will promote the collaboration of all institutions to claim this before and after in the study and dignity of our culture. We can also prepare the Xacobeo 2021 and so on. The future gives us many possibilities for working together: working together in cultural, economic, social... But there are matters in which division should never be an option and, of course, one of them is in the fight against macho violence. The fight against violence requires a wide range of measures: legal, political, assistance, social and economic. And there are them. In some cases they were prior to this government. The I Action Plan on this issue was drawn up by the Fraga Government. Measures of great relevance as the salary of freedom have been approved by the two-party government. Others have managed in this government, such as the extension of the beneficiaries of economic aid or the first work programme for the victims. And some more are derived from the pact reaching national level, which in Galicia we are fulfilling with speed, with an budget of 16 million euros. For example, for the first time an order of aid to the municipalities is in place to hire women victims. All of us in this House are working with the same objective and always the best against violence, and no one should have a problem recognizing it. I, of course, don't have it. It is not acceptable to deny the reality that this is an existing problem. Nor is the sound of attempts to dilute it in others. In the same way, none of us here should deny that we are committed to this scourge. Terrible crimes, like those that happened recently in Valga, should lead us to be even closer together. [[Applause]] Our duty, ladies and gentlemen, is to send a double message, a double message to women, and also to the boys who feel it, we feel terrified because there are men who act this way. First of all, that you have advanced to demand and combat a delicious conduct, which, because of its characteristics, often clandestine, is not always easy to detect in time. And secondly, that measures are not yet sufficient for zero tolerance to become zero crime, but we will continue. Of course, Junta will continue to work on new initiatives such as the victim care court office, which centralizes all support, or also against machismo, with the introduction of equality clauses in public procurement. The commitment of the fight against gender violence has to be complete and without fissures, because the adversary is ruthless and, unfortunately, unpredictable many times. And, of course, as far as we are concerned, working for the best possible Galicia not only goes through growth, employment, public services or the environment, but also because that Galicia we aspire to be free of machismo as well. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, in all the ages, Galicia's progress in recent years is unquestionable, as is the fact that much remains to be done and also much remains to be achieved. The best way to do this self-criticism is to recognize it. These are all the proposals we are making today for the immediate future and also for the medium and long term of the coming decade. More support than ever to families, so that Galicia is a land of well-being and future, a public education and health above and above the Spanish average, anticipation of new times through innovation to create new opportunities and a greener territory, which cares much more about itself, so that young people will receive in the best conditions the best legacy we can leave them in inheritance. Galicia, the best Galicia in our history, the Jacobean Galicia, the Quality Galicia, the Galicia we have ahead will not, much less — I know — be a simple path: global threats of slowdown, unknown within the Community framework and the national instability that deteriorates and worsens everything. Besides, we don't get along and we've set up challenges that we've never met before, but we'll be who. Throughout their history and also in their recent history, Galicia has shown that it is capable and now, as then, the Greeks and the Greeks are neither alone nor alone; they have, have, have and will have next to them the Unity of Galicia. With all the logical concerns that they feel, with all our eves and mistakes, with all the dreams that we still have to make reality, the Greeks and the Greeks can sleep peacefully, if they can sleep peacefully with regard to the Council of Galicia. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u7	We resumed the session. I'm telling you, there's no serious problem, there's the thing under control, no problem. Whenever you want, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u8	Thank you. We all hope for Elijah's prompt recovery. I was saying, ladies and gentlemen, that, in the face of the dangers of worsening the economic situation, the Union guarantees planning, rigour and responsibility. In the face of international and national uncertainties, the Union guarantees security and stability. In the face of division policy and trenches, the Union guarantees moderation, centrality and unity. And to those who undermine coexistence, the Union guarantees Constitution and Statute. In the face of the self-centered general interests, the Union guarantees a government that governs, and a government that governs for all. And in the face of non-compliance, blackmail and contempt, the Union guarantees that Galicia will have the respect it deserves. We don't know if next November 10 will finally be a government for Spain, but Galicia can be sure that if you have and will have in the Union everything that we now lack in the nation. We want the best for Spain, because we are Spain, but Galicia will be independent of politics and politicians who are not up to it. The least is the future of those we're here, the most important thing is that Galicia has cleared its future for the next 12 months. And we have to guarantee a true future for the next 12 years. Galicia convocates us, summons us to this challenge, and the Galicians and the Greeks can count on the Galician Union and they can count on me. There is no greater honor than serving Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u9	Thank you. The session is suspended until 6 p.m. Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u10	Good afternoon. We resumed the session with the turn of parliamentary groups. We started with the Joint Parliamentary Group. And for that, Mr. Villares has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u11	"Adults keep saying we must give young people hope, but I don't want your hope. I don't want you to have hope. I want you to be scared. I want you to feel the fear I feel every day. I want you to act. I want you to act like you would in a crisis. I want you to act like the house is on fire, because it is." Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the citizenship that follows this debate about the state of the nation, these words are from a 16-year-old girl — who could be a Welsh woman — who, with her constancy and decision, and despite all limitations, managed to bring out the streets the youth of a whole planet. His name is Greta Thunberg. What is said in the parliamentary rhetoric today by any one of us today, and the feeling of kindness and normality that we try to convey, is that we live in an emergency situation. The house is on fire and the country is on fire. Our country is in a situation of feminist emergency with the recent murder in Valga de Elena, Alba and Sandra. Our country is in a social emergency, at the doors of a new recession, without even recovering from the gnats in the well-being of the previous one. And, yes, our country is in a climate emergency, it burns our house, and it burns the future of the whole planet. Mr. President, all Galicia knows why we're here today, you yourself confirmed this morning. They all know him now, and at this point he doesn't fool anyone. You advanced the debate to match the call for general elections. You searched for the date to make it match and spoil the debate about the state of the nation; a distraction to look elsewhere and not to talk about the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Murmurs.]] You put on your raid victim's suit, the one who only complains about the government of the state when there does not rule the PP, to come to blame today for the evils of Galicia the outside, as if Galicia had no self-government, as if you had no responsibility for what happens in our country despite managing 10,000 million euros. You may be irresponsible, but you're responsible for what's going on in Galicia. You come here, then, to defeat the debate of autonomy, to turn the House into a PP rally for the generals; once again, using public resources for the purpose of supporting a real fraud of law—fraud why this time you will not condemn anyone from Galicia's PP for corruption, as happened, however, with Pablo Crespo at Gürtel. But the worst of all, ladies and gentlemen, is that this is really a curtain of smoke. You hide an uncomfortable truth: Feijóo has nothing to tell, Galicia's economic and social progress balance during this legislation is zero. There are no ideas and no country project. We have a government of stone cardboard at the service of the lobbys of large corporate corporations that squill and contaminate the territory, which enslave the workers, who vamp the public, who impoverish our country. Those are the real rulers, Mr. Feijóo, not you. You've been forced into the 2016 elections waiting for a ticket to Madrid that never arrived, and since that one you've been sitting at the station without doing anything. And while you're not doing anything on that bench, Galicia comes forward with the trains of equality, prosperity and well-being. His paralysis has plunged Galicia into a situation of emergency, feminist emergency, climate emergency and economic and social emergency, a perfect storm that crystallizes in a sad symptom, which is Galicia's demographic implosion. Sandra, Elena and Alba are just some of the names with which macho barbarism is written in Galicia. I'm the dramatic symptom of structural social illness: patriarchy. The fight against macho violence can only be successful if we assume that murder is just the tip of the iceberg, and that the root is in a social and cultural component that needs to change completely. And the first thing to do is to choose the band without ambiguity, whether it's with machismo or whether it's with equality. To deny feminism as the motive ideology of equality is to deny gender justice, and to condemn women to patriarchal play. The progress in Greek society over the past 20 years is undeniable in the awareness of the citizen and also of the political discourse throughout the parliamentary circle — also on the democratic right in which we mostly recognize the PP. That is why we are concerned that at times — now, lately, it is always — they remain aligned with the extreme right, with the negationist fascism of machismo. And we asked him, without ambasses, to separate himself from Vox, but also from Almeida, the flaming popular mayor of Madrid, who did not mind saying that he was against feminism on 8 March. Mr President, are you against feminism on March 8th? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, are you opposed to feminism on March 8th? I trust and I'm sure your answer will place them on the side of equality and feminism. However, works are love and not good reasons. Since the feminist struggle and the feminist strike of 2018 and 2019 you have neither taken on the opposition's proposals for equality laws nor proposed other news that improves the current ones, and have not increased the resources on equal terms. And then this comes propaganda policy, say it's done and not done. Look, finished and fully executed the budgets of 2018 -- this is an official data that you have at your disposal and will know well -- in program 313D, "Protection and support for women who suffer from gender violence," out of the 14.6 million they had committed, they only executed 6.6; that is, there are nearly 8 million who have not carried out the struggle against violence. I mean, what you told us this morning, during last year did less than half, or did just half, almost 60% without running. In the reply, can you go up and explain why you don't spend the resources on gender-based violence? Do we have any money? Ladies and gentlemen, the institutional reaction to violence continues to depend on the complaint of the woman, bringing the responsibility of acting upon her when she is generally unable to do so. It buys a network of broader medical and social services that can react to these situations. And, of course, five minutes per patient in primary care don't give to detect these situations. Our education system doesn't have any means or tools either. So tell Mari Carme, a middle school teacher in Sanxenxo: "The professor needs specific training from the CFRs, who must have an equal counselling that advises the teacher in his daily activities and the centres in the establishment of a centre equality plan that monitors the incorporation of emotional and emotional education in a cross-sectional way in the everyday life of the classrooms." Write it down for the plan this morning. If there is anything, however, that I myself have seen as a judge of gender-based violence in a rural region of Galicia, it is the weight that economic dependence has in order to act in the face of mistreatment. The woman who depends on the man economically, for herself or her children, is even more vulnerable, is a particularly childish victim. Well, if anything has left, ladies and gentlemen, the great recession was the female economic precariousness and, above all, the pay gap. You'll probably know this statistic well, it's the pay gap that's been increasing during the years of your government; therefore, far from converge, let's divide in relation to equality up to 30% — equal work, less pay —. [[Mr. Villares Naveira shows a chart from the rostrum of speakers.]] But there are other data that are equally revealing: in part-time, 77% of part-time is women; in short-days to take care of the family, 95% are women. And the result of the end of working life is that the pensions of the Greek pensioners are about, on average, 358 euros lower than those of men. In this case we have to ask you, Mr. Núñez: How does failure in your policy of overcoming the female wage gap? On the other hand, there is still no recognition of the role of women in the care economy today, nor of paying and ensuring attention to dependent people or the upbringing of better children. Galicia is one of the world's oldest societies, which increases the demand for public resources for attention and also results in an increase in the rate of dependent people and in the number of dementias. And from here, gentlemen, the paradoxes come. Regarding the total population of Galicia, requests for dependency assistance represent 2.97 per cent, compared to 3.94 per cent of the state average. In relation to the potentially dependent population, coverage is 6.4%, compared to the state average of 8.5%. And finally, the average public expenditure per dependent person in Galicia is EUR 932 less than the state average. And in addition, in 2018 we still have more fun with this average. I mean, we're about older, we're asking for less help and we're less content for each of those help. So I have to ask you, Mr. President, how do you value the failure of your policies of care and dependence, which pay above all the shoulders of the Greek women? One of the services of the system of autonomy and dependency care is the residential care service, with residences for adults and care centres for dependents. In all, in 2016 there were 20,400 residential squares of larger and dependents, of which 67% were private, the largest percentage of private squares in the state. Again, once again, the business of private companies with public money. And the paradoxes again, gentlemen. Overall, the rate of squares per person over 65 is the lowest in the state, 3.07%, when WHO recommends 5%. Of course, as we depend on private people and these are more expensive, with the same resources we care less for a simple reason: we have to share money with the benefit of companies. And here we have to invoke the damn hemerothec: one of the star measures at the beginning of this legislation was the promise of the Junta residences in the seven cities. In the June 2018 budgets, the "as at home" plan only had 700,000 euros, only 1.5 % of the total. For this 2019 it provides only 8 million euros, with 18.5% of the residence plan. The dedication of the Amancio Ortega Foundation to these residences is known for an amount of EUR 90 million. So, one out of two, or the original plan was a farce, because it wasn't going to be fulfilled, or you already knew at the entrance, in 2016, that a prayer would fall to you in 2019. Tell us this in the replica, if you can. The IGE, ladies and gentlemen, reveals that, of those who perform care tasks of dependent people, two-thirds are women, basically over 45 years of age. And 30% of them devote more than 70 hours a week to this task. So, Mr. President, we have to ask you how you value the failure of your policy of residences for older people and if you have ever considered raising the tax to the richest so that the construction of residences depends not on charity but on fiscal justice. We want to highlight this reflection: less charity and more fiscal justice, less prayers and more recitation, because we are in a situation of feminist emergency. Look, with data from the UN Conciliation Plan, more than 32,000 women in front of only 2,900 men give up looking for work for the care of minors and other dependents. And then we have to ask him: how do you value failure in your policy of conciliation, which condemns women, and only women, to be tied to the care of children and dependent people in the homes? In an emergency situation like the current one, it is made more acute than ever the emergence of a new right, which is the universal basic income, and conceivable in a feminist key, as a guaranteed income that contributes to the equality of real opportunities for the most vulnerable people; an unconditional income as a right of citizenship for women, victims of a specific poverty that combines temporary and ill-paid work with unpaid care; a sufficient income that guarantees a minimum to live in freedom, because the decent life of people cannot depend on access to a job. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask myself out loud: is this situation worth considering as a feminist emergency? In consideration of En Marea, yes. [[Applause]] "It is time to immediately join a global change of model and paradigm, assumed that continuous growth on a planet of limited resources is not possible, as it is not to remain unsatisfied by the climatic and ecological emergencies upon which our planet is sinked. We need concrete measures to achieve the zero net greenhouse gas emissions before an irreversible situation occurs. Avoiding that global temperature rises above the degree and half must be a priority for humanity as a whole, from which we, as Greeks and Greeks, must participate." Ladies and gentlemen, these words are from a group of teenage and university girls, who are self-denominated Galego Movement by Climate, and are part of an international current called Fridays for Future. They are part of modernity, they are in vanguard, and they do so from the pride of belonging to their country. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we live, as these young people remind us, in a true climate emergency as the most visible paradigm of the global environmental disaster that has subjected us to the predation of the most savage, deregulated and pirate capitalism, to which Galicia is not alien. In Galicia it seems not to have ruled Feijóo, but to have an unscrupulous business lobby with the land and the territory, dissalted with the environment. The megaminer project of Touro will poison the water of Ulla — where more than 100,000 people drink — and the Arousa River — where thousands live from the shellfish — by a company recalcitrantly sanctioned as intended exploiter, while Tahoces exercises his specialty, which is to make the eye fat. There are wind farms in protected areas, such as the Iribio, where the Union uses a real fraud of the law of a concession on the Natura Network to ruin the environment, as well as the heritage. The monoculture of the eucalyptus impoverishs the rural economy, eliminates the cultivable surface, promotes the unlimited expansion of the fires and annihilates biodiversity by exhausting a water that is no longer so abundant, and all to ensure the permanence of Ence in the Pontevedra River; and Sogama is compelled to burn instead of recycling. We have urban speculation, promoted by a Land Law that allows us to urbanize without manner and rests legal control in the weaker administrations in the face of pressure from the big promoters, making Mine, Sanxenxo or Barriers large museums of urban horror, and causing the most infamous municipal corruption at the cost of consuming territory. The contamination by plastics on the back, rivers and rivers caused scientific warning in the Arousa River by the presence of microplastics in fish and molluscs. Ladies and gentlemen, if even this same hemicycle could save thousands of pounds of plastic by the end of the year if instead of consuming plastic bottles, if you consume water from the ball, which is drinking! We have to be aware of this. Territorial and environmental depredation, moreover, has become the second cause of corruption of the public power, only behind corruption in the processes of privatization of public services, something that would be cut short by restricting the possibilities of rebalancing rustic soil and fighting urban expansion towards lands of high agricultural, forestry or landscape productivity. And the question I have to address you, Mr. President, is this: what are you going to do to decontaminate the land and fix this mess? And, above all, how is it going to get rid of the lobby that they send to the board today? Besides, it's not just the land, it's also the poisoning of the air. CO2 is the main gas responsible for the greenhouse effect. And it is inevitable: Meirama and the Bridges will close, because they belong to the club of the great CO2 generators in southern Europe. And the role of a responsible government had to be looking for alternatives to keep the job, to plan for an energy transition, but above all for planning a work and social transition, a transition, in Carlos Taibo's words, eco-social. Look, this has been known for a decade, which is what you've been ruling. And the question is, what have you done all this time to prepare us for that energy change? PP's policies reveal absolute environmental irresponsibility and they're a scam. Galicia's future isn't burning Indonesia's coal, it's in the energy transition. Giving tax incentives to India to pollute is against all policies of the European Union. Paying you incentives for capacity, i.e. paying Endesa for being stopped, does Endesa's workers benefit?, does the assistants benefit?, does transporters benefit? No, we need to find another solution. We don't see any interest in the Galician Union, and that's why we've been making a number of proposals from En Marea: —Develop, first, the map of the sustainable transition of Galicia — climate, land, energy and water — with the participation of the universities of Galicia, and beginning with the districts of Pontes and Cerceda. —Economy in the budgets of the year to 2020, the development of these maps, and the promotion of business and training initiatives, mainly in the development of renewables and other technologies in the energy transition. —Initiate Endesa and Naturgy to be part of business initiatives, conditioning possible new concessions to the fulfilment of industrial plans, and develop you, like the Government of Greece, the task of the hub of the marine wind energy so that Ferrolterra stop doing only the structures and build new engines and assemble everything so absorbing lost industrial jobs in the river and in the region. We have the best laugh, we have the best working hand, we have the best raw materials. I'm sorry I don't have a good German government worthy of such a name, Mr. President! Mr President, the forest disorder and the monoculture of the Eucalyptus impoverishes Galicia and accelerates climate change by the voracity of the fires they cause. In Galicia there are already over 500,000 acres of eucalyptals, of which 300,000 are occupying agricultural land — yes, those that make natural firewalls and prevent people from burning houses and dying. And still on the new forest plan, they want to put 35,000 more. That's his intention as long as there's a paradox. Gale-stemulated cows eat soya as a source of protein, and that soia comes from Latin America, 6,000 kilometers by boat! Do you know where? Of the deforestationd lands of Amazonia, those that have recently been fashionable for burning in an absolutely unusual way in history. And the question is, why do we have to import sound with so much abandoned land? Tell him. Soy is a source of protein that is also found in legumes that are planted in Galicia, like the truce to the cattle, and which also has a premium on the CAP because it fixes nitrogen in the atmosphere and reduces the greenhouse effect. Mr. President, get us out of the way of this forest plan and do another one to get the land back to feed the cows. We don't want to be complicit in the Amazon deforestation. Make a real industrial policy of transformation. Don't be an Iceman. Encourages the closure of the productive cycle of wood in Galicia so as to recover the industrial fabric that was devoted to forest use, which would allow the recovery of jobs and the fixing of population in rural areas. But no, all the resources go to the fire industry, neglecting prevention, which the Galician Union has to fall on the Town Councils. You wanted to recognize this morning the fire prevention and extinction service. I also want to do it in the words of 35-year-old Maribel, who is head of the brigade, who dedicates these words to him: "In the three municipalities in which I worked no one gave us the full-fledged EPI. From three municipalities, in two to the base, it was a garage shared with users and without a bathroom. Of the three, only one gave us a normal car, that is, a car in which the doors were closed, that he didn't lose fuel and that he wouldn't let us down." These are the conditions under which workers sometimes work in the public service. Mr President, as you look at it, I suffer the consequences that the People's Party did not want or take on the competences on the nearby train, nor did it urge the State to bet on the railway as a way to vertebrate the territory. We could be burning less diesel with a renewed feve between Ferrol and Ribadeo, with a proximity between Ferrol and La Coruña that was faster than a skate, with a train to vertebrate The Coruña, Lugo, Ourense and Santiago, just like the one between the Herculina and Vigo. But in addition, the development of the railway Atlantic corridor — which you forgot when you were in government — and the connection of the external ports to the network would reduce heavy traffic on roads, saving on maintenance and reducing CO2, in addition to catching Europe's goods in the inter-Ocean maritime transit, thus promoting the deployment of new processing companies. They're the infrastructures for a new time. Ecological is profitable, Mr. President, for everyone except Audasa. Tell us what you're going to do to compensate for your incompetence in improving the German rail transport to this day. It was not better for us either with its public transport system in Galicia, a real failure that made a lot of rural population uncommunicated with the county headings and fired at the use of private transport, with greater social costs, such as the intensification for the older people who live in the rural from the displacement to the doctor. Mr. President, since your governor has been abandoned in Galicia 30,000 agricultural holdings, 30,000! This productive structure, which PP is dismantling, makes grazing and employs extensive gain, functioning as a natural element of dew and fire prevention. Farmers keep the territory safe, generate wealth and feed us with quality products. And the question is, when will you be responsible for the rural and environmental exodus associated with your economic policies? Ladies and gentlemen, the German Government in environmental matters has been turning around for years without progress, but that is not the circular economy, which the Council only smelled on the paper. That is why we urge them to commit themselves to a plan that includes the establishment of specific recovery schemes that allow the life of certain products to be extended before it is destined to waste, such as textiles, electronics and plastics — Madam Counsellor, this does not exist today in the Council—or the use of waste from the sea and forests, to curb the generation of food waste, or to promote repair activities. I do not want to forget yet, in the climate emergency bloc, that the People's Party voted against the En Marea amendment to promote the establishment of environmental tariffs in the European Union. Yes, we have to deal with environmental piracy. We have, on large surfaces, very cheap products with very polluting production processes that pay no CO2 fees. And it's not only the Chinese firearms, it's also the aluminium produced in Maaden, in Saudi Arabia, which will soon enter the port of Vigo and replace what is made in Alcoa. It's much cheaper. And why? Because they don't pay environmental tariffs, because they burn infamous amounts of oil without paying tariffs, and therefore they don't have to impact them on the final price. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to set environmental tariffs so that multinationals don't make up for pollution in Galicia, but neither in China nor in India. The climate emergency is a third emergency, the social emergency. Adriana of Pontevedra has a message for you, Mr. President, "I did this summer eleven years that I finished the nursing career. I've signed more than 800 contracts and only two-hundred years consolidated. And all this having approved the calls for 2009, 2015 and 2019." Mr. President, Adriana has done her entire career in the autonomous public administration with you as president of the board, and the question is, don't you think you owe her an apology for the precariousness that she's been subjected to for eleven years? The People's Party took advantage of the recession to cut social benefits, privatize public services, and to prevent employment, particularly in health and education, the numerous and most numerous sectors of the administration. What they didn't count is that they organized themselves proud as potential nurses in the fight, brave women who don't resign themselves to precariousness or no job, because they're not afraid, because they have nothing to lose, not their garbage contracts. Mr President, we have to take care of those who care for us. We have to treat our health care staff with dignity. And the question is, when do you intend to stop mistreating Sergas' health personnel? There is no answer because there is no government. In Sergas they send business lobbyies and dot, they decapitalize public health to the greater glory of colleagues' companies. That's how they did it in the construction of Álvaro Cunqueiro, in the remodeling of Ourense hospital, in the renovation of the Povisa concert in Vigo. Always the private, the private, which is the most expensive, gentlemen, because it performs the same service as the public but it has to achieve a business benefit. And when it's cheaper, it's because they steal part of the salary from the staff or offer a worse quality service. We've been talking about the public so far, but where the situation of social emergency is more fiercely felt in the private sector. Monica is 43 years old, she's a teleoperator in the Coruña and sends us this message: "With two-month contracts, exhausting unemployment, which remains at 400 euros, independent, having children, it becomes complicated. To get to work every day without knowing if it's going to be the last one, without knowing whether an ambulance will have to come today to attend to a companion with an anxiety attack..." These are realities of everyday life. Galicia is one of the autonomous communities of the entire state in which the employment that existed before the crisis has not yet been recovered. Specifically, there are 54,000 less busy than before. And since the labour reforms of the PSOE and the People's Party, all over the state we've been living in a sort of dictatorship of precariousness, with people who work and don't get out of poverty. Labour precariousness is a dictatorship marked by low temporality and low wages. Since 2015, less than 10% of new employees have a quality job, the rest is precarious. The work of the future is a turn to the past, they're mini-salaries with super-hours. Mr. President, for a change, could you do something for the job? And I say this is not for nothing, nor with retinue, but because all these things that he said in the morning are very good, but they have a little problem, which is that then they don't meet. Once again, it is said, but the budget is not executed. I have here the statistics on employment promotion budgets from 2011 to 2018. In total there are 945 million euros that have not been executed, 945, ladies and gentlemen!, almost 1 billion euros in employment promotion policies that have not been spent. And the question is, Mr President, don't you think that with EUR 1 billion you could have promoted employment well in Galicia? I'll leave this to the replica shift. Look, when a government doesn't promote employment, citizenship lives worse and we move from job insecurity to social precariousness. The poverty rate in Galicia is 18.8% — you haven't improved in the last year, you haven't improved anything in the last year! There are 34,700 non-income homes, and in 2018 Risga only covered 1 in 100 people at risk of poverty. Mr President, are you satisfied with this data? I know he's not, he said it in the morning. And then the question I have for you is this: why did you lower your taxes to 6,000 fortunes, to 6,000 richest people in Galicia last year?, why did you lower your property tax by giving them a tax gift of 12 million euros, if there is not enough money to meet the Risga everyone who is in a state of poverty and social exclusion? Why did he do that? You exercise a lot of anti-Robin Hood, take it out to the Risga poor to give it to the rich in the form of a tax gift. Is this what you understand about fiscal justice? Then you'll have the chance to come up and tell us what it is. And while the rich are richer, the poor are often left homeless. There's a register of plaintiffs in the Union with 13,800 people, the Red Cross composed last year 1,200 homeless people. In order to alleviate this situation, the Union, which has jurisdiction over housing, has built three protected dwellings, and no public promotion. It's about 5,000 applicants per house. The truth is, it's not bad. Environment will be there, but surely it's not enough to meet certain needs. The government of Nuñez Feijóo, ladies and gentlemen, is a little innovative, little invested in R & D, despite what he said this morning. And that's why in recent years it hasn't spent 240 million euros. I+D average is 77%. Look, the EU average is 2% of GDP, and Galicia is only 1%.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u12	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u13	And yet they are left without running the money. I don't want to forget about the emergencies before I'm done. All — since Mr Núñez did not deal together — are converging in a situation: our implosion as a country, with a territorial devertebration, with a growing lack of social cohesion, with an insecurity in the everyday life that leads to the emergence of youth or that which remains in the country cannot freely decide to exercise maternity, generating as a symptom the demographic cataclysm of Galicia. Anyone who suffers from his policies can replicate his propaganda, where he spends more money than on measures. I limit myself in this case to putting a voice to Pilar — a single working mother of 44 years of age, at which time Sergas no longer funds assisted fertilization treatments — to speak to him about his alleged birth policies. He says, "There are hundreds of kids waiting for a square in a public childhood school. Meanwhile, their mothers and parents try to get help from the Council Bond to pay private squares, but they lose endless bureaucratic procedures and claims. Many of those who meet the requirements are left out and others give up the constant obstacles to access what they are entitled to. The Bono Care also moves in the limb of bureaucracy and it's hard for someone to hunt him down." Answer him, if he wants, in the replica shift, that you have unlimited time. I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Board and his government have left office for these ten years. The balance of self-government was zero new competences. There is no country project, we do not want to govern and therefore there is no shortage of a competitive regime to extend the well-being of Galician citizenship. That's enough of the idea that there's no government here, there's a guard looking at a lobby of interests. And, in order to safeguard those interests, the People's Party goes over the rights, with the numbness of CRTVG's professionals or with this House's own mordaza regulation. The important thing is not to disturb the power, the power exercised for the particular interest, from behind to the people. Since there is no German government, there is no general interest and no thought of language or culture as cohesion elements of society...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u14	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u15	...with its mandates the sad balance of the greatest loss of the Gale-speaking people of history, the result of the president's obsession with banning language in schools. Ladies and gentlemen, even if we pretend to be normal, Galicia is experiencing an emergency situation because it burns our house. Mr. President, I only ask you, from here at the end of the legislature, to keep your word and to execute what you wish. For the progressive bench set, however, I propose something else. I suggest that during this year we be able to seek a German social agreement against climate change in which we involve the social, cultural, trade union and civil society sectors, a long-term agreement, because the measures are silent, in order to present ourselves...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u16	Thank you, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u17	Give me a couple of minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u18	No, a couple of minutes is a lot.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u19	This is the bite of Parliament!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u20	It's over now. Look at the clock, please! Look at the watch! [[Murmurs.]] It's over now. Stop, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u21	The points of the agreement for this great agreement would be as follows: to begin a process of decarbonization in the country that involves the removal of coal as a source of energy, committed to generating 100 percent of electricity with renewable sources in the next decade; to reconsider and reduce working time in the public sector and in private enterprises, generating hours available to meet needs...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u22	Thank you, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u23	...of family reconciliation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u24	Your time is up. Thank you. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u25	Good afternoon. Today's the truth is it's a day of concern for Galicia. At least I'm very worried about Galicia. And Galicia needs to be concerned about the total exhaustion of its government, the loss of political role, political weight, as a country, and the indicators that show the risks we have if we don't give them a frightening blow to the policies that are developing. And I'm worried because I saw the leader of an exhausted party without a project and in a situation of political irrelevance to Galicia. That is why I want to leave three reflections in this debate. The first is that Galicia has no agenda for the future that is in line with the great challenges of our time. The government has no vision, no initiative and no illusion. His great project — said Mr. Feijóo in the morning — is to go to the memory trunk and rescue the Fraga projects of the 1990s, when Galicia is in the second decade of the 21st century. [[Applause]] The board has become a question of survival for the PPdeG. [[Applause]] That's all, the survival of the PP and its leader. Second reflection: Galicia has passed, with the government of the PP, from submission to political intranscence. We have spent years of submission to the Rajoy Government to an intra-governing government, because its party and its leader are intra-governing. Galicia is not in the debates today, it's not in the negotiations, it's not in the projects, it's not in the investments. And it's sad, very sad, but the reality is that Galicia is not. And the third reflection is a more optimistic reflection, because we are the ones we think Galicia has a future, which has a promising future, but for that we have to change politics. For decades we have been dependent on what others want from us, on what they want to give us or on what they want to take us away. We have to break that vicious circle and build an agenda from what the Galician society wants, define the agenda that Galicia needs to get a basic question: that the Greeks and the Greeks have a future in Galicia. Mr. Feijóo, your lack of a project is so clear that even you know you have reached your last debate as President of the Union. Come here with empty hands because he didn't do anything. And it also aims to mask its failure with the promises repeated on numerous occasions and hiding behind the state situation. But Galicia deserves much more, Galicia has to look to the future. And you, Mr. Feijóo, represent the past. There's another Galician one better and possible, a new Galician where we put in place all the potential and all the wealth we have with confidence in the country and in the people, which is lacking in the government of Feijóo. The legacy that leaves us is a tiny, meager country, a Galician worse than you received. Leave us a more unequal country, where most of them live worse after their ten years of government. We don't want his "Galiza bonsai" at the BNG we want a strong and vigorous Galicia like a oak, with solid roots and big branches that bring wealth, progress and well-being. [[Applause]] His decade of shadows is the reflection of a complex president, a president who has fallen into irrelevance, who has violated his word and lets us be drowned by a waterfall of crises in economics, socials and self-government. [[Murmurs.]] Your government is pure incompetence, Mr. Feijóo, pure incompetence. [[Murmurs.]] Let us have a Galician in five major crises. We have a demographic crisis. We have the worst data in our history — and that's what I promised you that with your actions I would turn the situation around. And while you were advertising Finnish boxes and measures that didn't work, the reality is that 200,000 Greeks and Greeks emigrated from this country this year. But that doesn't matter to you. And this is important because you have to convince yourself of something: that the problem isn't demography, that's the economy. [[Applause]] And that is precisely his second crisis: economics. Mr. Feijóo, can you deny today that there are fewer jobs than ten years ago? Can you deny that it has increased precariousness and inequality? And what's not worth is to come here with excuses, because you've been here for ten years with excuse after excuse. When there's a problem you're not looking for a solution, the only thing you're looking for is an excuse. Are there any problems with electrointensives? [[Applause]] You're excusing yourself. Yes, yes, and other governments, in the same framework, act. Because the Basques defended a Basque electric tariff for their businesses and they don't have the electrointensive problems we have here. I ask you, are they smarter than you? And the industrial crisis is not only affecting electro-intensive companies, it's that we have the naval, the automotive, the textile and the basic sectors of our economy, which are still weakening. And please don't deceive people. We're not converging with the European Union. The last data they say is that we're back fifteen years, that we have per capita income at 2004 levels. Since the government destroyed more than 21,600 jobs in the industry; the industrial production index is falling free — under 2009—; emblematic companies have relocated or lost their Galeguity — we speak of Pescanova, Banco Pastor, de Barreras — and in the course of the year we are the second community in the whole state with more ERE. Do you have to tell the Isowat workers something -- why if they're running out of time? And we also want, from here on, to send all the solidarity and support to the workers and workers of businesses in crisis, such as Alcoa, Isowat, Poligal, Vulcan, those of the bridges, of R, of Ferroatlantics. [[Applause]] And we're not going to stop until there's solutions. [[Applause]] You follow the slogan that this is the legislation of the countryside, when what we see is how 6,000 dairy farms have disappeared. In the last two years, only in the last two years, the farm has lost 14,700 jobs. Our gloves and gloves have a stable price. That's right, it's the lowest in the whole state. This, Mr. Feijóo, is what remains of his "rural legislate." [[Applause]] In fishing and seafood, quotas have also decreased, and the sector has lost more than 4,000 jobs. In the trade, only in the last four years, they've placed the closure cartel 3,600 establishments. And it's not that science and innovation were much more fortunate. We have made it clear that science and innovation are key elements of the future of our economy. And what did Feijóo do during the crisis over the last few years? So cut the expense in R & D+i and put us on the line of state and Europe. It's reduced spending, it's caused half of the innovative companies to disappear, it's still brain draining, and our researchers and researchers work in precarious conditions that are absolutely aberrant. Because you can't agree that in this country a woman has to choose between being a mother or a scientist. You can't afford it. [[Applause]] You, Mr. Feijóo, promised us an innovative Galicia, but what leaves us is a "innovity." Yes, and to me, at this point, I'd like to ask you a question: which of these problems is going to solve Xacobeo 2021? [[Murmurs.]] I understand, Mr. Feijóo, that he has to look at his papers, because it causes him to see that his word is worthless and that he has no solutions for this country. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] So what we're telling you is that the solution to the problems that we have does not go through with entrusting ourselves to the Apostle and to the year 2021, now we need a new economic strategy, which has to go far beyond tourism because this country has the capacity to produce. His third crisis is that of the welfare state. Public education carries an accumulated cut of more than 2,000 million euros, while what you did was shield the concerts with the private — including Opus Dei centers, which separate children and children. While in public school, what he does is he cuts schools, units, professors, increases student ratios by class, and, yes, he encourages the people of this country to go back to school by eliminating the freeness of textbooks; and the same modus operandi has in universities. But if in something you've given yourself up, it's in public health. He beat Vigo's area with a failed experiment, and for his privatization we're going to pay three times as much as it would cost if it were public. He drowned primary care to the edge of the collapse, precariously for workers and workers, and more waiting list for the patients in this country. And none of this — let it be said — is causal. It's just that you're defending the privatization of health. And I dare you, Mr. Feijóo, to get off the official car and tell the health professionals or people who have been waiting for months or years for a diagnostic test that health has never been better. You have to have little knowledge of reality to make a statement like what you're doing. [[Applause]] Look, your government wasn't up to the height of either in the easy moments or in the toughest moments, because here we dramatically saw how the cuts kill, Mr. Feijóo. And the causes of the death of José Manuel Brey, who died at the Road CAP, remain unclear, where there was no doctor to help him. And you, in the face of such a serious fact, did what you did was kidnap Parliament's commission of inquiry to know the truth. That was his answer. [[Applause]] There are also a lot of shades of dependence. There are 8,000 Welsh and Welsh waiting, there are delays in the valuations of up to two years, we have an increase in the payrolls and a deficit in resources. And, in the face of the resource deficit, what you will tell us, Mr. Feijóo, is that the social policy of this country depends on a multimillionaire's chequer. That can't be, Mr. Feijóo, the social policy that is being done in Galicia. [[Applause]] You didn't defend women's rights either. He was a precursor to dismantle equality policies. What now so scandalizing in Andalusia has already done here is nothing more to come to the Government. But it's also making deaf ears to women's demands for equality. We had two 8M massives in this country where women were in the streets saying we want equality. And what is the answer to this government? You think it's March 8th, they put a lila bond on the cover and women's problems disappear. That's how they reduce their policies of equality, when they lack public services to reconcile, when they're raising the wage gap, when women are more precarious and when we see, in addition, how poverty still has a woman's face. That's right. To swallow the pacts of the People's Party with the far right you've been rough and fast, you've missed time to do it. And what's not worth is cynicism in politics. It cannot be said in the morning that one condemns male violence and, in the afternoon, go crochet with an extreme right that is denying the existence of macho violence and that he wants to break the laws of which we equip ourselves to fight it. And you have to decide which side you're on. Some of the Block's motions for resolutions would make it clear, because we want these pacts to be condemned. I'm sure, as a Democrat, you will vote in the right direction. [[Applause]] We've reached the fourth crisis, the environmental crisis. His government, in relation to the climate emergency, is like a suicide driver who goes in the opposite direction on the highway. See, between 2008 and 2017 large companies increased their emissions to Galicia by 38%, and in the state by 13%. And you, with propaganda, "Galiza is on the podium of self-reliant duties." We have a serious problem with forest fires, it's the biggest environmental problem Galicia has. But does your government insist on it? In rural abandonment policies and a pyromanian forest policy at the service of Ence and its rotational doors. That's not what this country needs. [[Applause]] And finally, his last crisis, the crisis of self-government. One of the biggest attacks on self-government was the breakdown of the boxes. Someday we'll know why or in exchange for that. Something is hidden, because the committee of this Parliament has been closed for seven years to which and how. [[Applause]] But let's analyze this operation. A merger was made that you personally evaluated. Because sometimes he has a bad memory, I bring him a picture. Do you see here? [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo shows a picture from the gallery of speakers.]] Some of these former directors are in prison — you have many pictures of people in prison. And after injecting 8,000 million euros a day for tomorrow, they decide to sell it for 1 billion euros to a Venezuelan entrepreneur. [[Applause]] [[Strong murmurers.]] I don't know if I can keep talking, because I see they're very upset.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u26	Follow
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u27	The Venezuelan businessman did the job of his life, because the first year he won more than he invested. And that you know what it proves? That the boxes were viable and that the problem was that you didn't defend them. That was the problem. [[Applause]] Nor does he defend the Statute. Look, he hasn't told us anything about self-government. In 2009 he did. He announced to us the bomb and dish that was going to put in place a new Statute and that was going to be the greatest advance in the self-government of Galician history. Do you know what this "historical face" was going to do? Zero competitions in ten years! Zero competitions in ten years! And it's just that, in addition, we're getting the hair, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] Look, we started the year with an agreement: "The PP claims the same self-government as the Basque Country and Catalonia, adding to a BNG proposal." And you start by coming out of the attack: "He will defend the status of historical nationality." But he was married in the middle and in the campaign they put on the electoral program that could not yield any more powers. Then Feijó went out to defend Galicia: "It made him swallow the PP moratorium on transfers. They're not priorities." How can you take the fall into such an important matter for this country? [[Applause]] But this crisis of self-government has another dimension, which is the democratic quality. And here they're like feudal lords 2.0 who think they're above the laws and rights. Yes, yes, the bloodiest example is to attack what binds us most to the Greeks and to the Greeks, to attack the Greek language. [[Applause]] And for that they violate the Statute, they have violated the Law of Linguistic Standardization and they maintain a prohibition which is shameful: to prohibit the teaching of mathematics or physics in Greek. And everything you know why? For a handful of votes. There is a galeguism of tin leaf that is spent not the People's Party! [[Applause]] And, look, it doesn't stop being a sarcasm that tells us about the health of democracy a PP militant, a party condemned for corruption. But corruption is much more than Gürtel, corruption is also to keep for months a valet condemned by plugging in the sister of her parliamentary spokesperson, corruption is to privilege a company because it works in it the president's sister, corruption is to nourish that network of corrupt companies of the People's Party, such as Indra or Villar Mir. And, look, if so much, he had been concerned about democracy in this country, there wouldn't be such serious things as retaliation to journalists because they dare to criticize you for using private media subsidies for party purposes or for the kidnapping of RTMG, which is turned into a propaganda apparatus in the service of the People's Party. And go our solidarity with the black Friday workers. [[Applause]] This, Mr. Feijóo, is your poisoned inheritance. You know that and that's why you want to hide your failure. And today I think there were moments when he confused himself with debate and place. I don't know, it gave me the feeling that I thought I was in Madrid at a control session to the President of the State Government. But we're in Galicia. Sometimes it gives a little feeling that what you can't overcome is the trauma of not being able to go to Madrid. Yes, yes, we all saw how she was crying when they closed that door so she could leave! [[Murmurs.]] Yes, yes! [[Murmurs.]] And I have to tell you that we don't care what the reasons were -- the pictures of the yacht with its drug dealer friend, Soraya's files, or that it had been very expensive to make a horse from Troy from Pemex in front of Repsol. What we ask of you is that you overcome the trauma once and do not use Galicia as a trap for your personal ambition. [[Murmurs.]] Because we have to tell the truth to the Greeks and to the Greeks. It's a truth that bothers you, the truth that Galicia doesn't count for the bipartisanism that alternates in the central government. He showed them these months and showed them to you for a long time. And the only real way to change that script is for Galicia to have its own agenda that is not conditional on the interests of state parties. And for that, political organizations with free hands are needed to defend this country, as is the BNG. And we have very clear that what we need is less Madrid and more Galicia to win a better future for this country. [[Applause]] Look, you had an opportunity to prove that you were able to take advantage of Galicia's interests. For seven of the last ten years he ruled the PP in Madrid. And what did he do for Galicia? The fees went up, he vetoed the transfer of AP-9, he failed to meet the deadlines of the AVE, he stopped the buses, he cut 200 million euros into dependence or he left without investing more than 2,000 million euros on the railway alone. And as all of this happened, what did he do? Shut up, it was like a salt statue, it didn't say anything at all. Even if it's late, it now exaggerates those 200 million to the dependency and the 2,000 to modernize our railway, and it will have all the support of the BNG. [[Applause]] And, look, we told him to exaggerate them because subordination to Madrid hurts this country very much. We have the debate of the EUR 700 million, which is indeed a coat of arms, but which leaves us a fundamental debate which is important. And the problem is that Madrid is the one who decides about our money. We have an unfair and discriminatory funding system that makes us lose resources. And, of course, here the guilt seems to have been from the "cha-cha-cha," but who signed it was Mr. Feijóo. And if we have to be with this funding system today, it's because you didn't defend Galicia's position. And here I want to ask the Greeks and the Greeks who are seeing what they prefer, if they prefer their salary to enter their account and administer it to them or if they prefer it to be entered into their neighbor's account 600 kilometers away. For this is what we have to change with funding, that is what we have to change. [[Applause]] We need to overcome the policy in Madrid because there will be no solution to our problems. We are already seeing that the Madrid court is converted: frivolity, contempt for the different, discredited politics, none of this country, and some parties — all of them, and I mean that they are all, not just one — that they have shown inconsistencies, incompetence and that they don't see beyond their party interests and their personal egos. And we believe that, in the face of this decadence, the Greeks and the Greeks don't have to resign. From the BNG we have shown that politics can be made differently, political with a high level of vision, with a clear direction, putting forward collective interests and always thinking about the best for the Greeks and for the Greeks. That is why we are bringing to this debate political silence initiatives that recite Galicia in the face of the uncertainties and challenges that we have ahead. We're watching a stage with a trade war between China and the United States, we have the Brexit, a new agreement with Mercosur that will affect our agricultural sector, and there's a lot of evidence that we're at the door of a recession. And before that, we have a Greek government that has not done its homework and that is in the hands of the Galician industrial crisis. They're just looking for guilty, sorry, they're never looking for solutions. And so in this country we're not able to fix anything. That's why we bring to this debate proposals to put in place a new Galicia, a new country project, and to re-establish Galicia in the state context. And let me highlight some: The first is funding. We need a new model of funding that ends with discrimination and allows us to have the key to our resources to improve people's lives. Of course, begging Madrid 700 million is not the solution. The BNG is clear that the best solution would be an economic concert, but in any case, we have the hand to consensualize a country proposal. That's why we propose the creation of a study commission to promote a new model of funding. The second is to prioritize economic reactivation, and job creation is key to coping with the demographic crisis. And here we bring clear proposals, like the Welsh electric tariff that spoils the price of light and a Welsh public bank so that this country's savings will not continue to emigration. There has to be a strategic bet for talent and knowledge, so we propose a Greek pact for innovation with the aim of devoting 3% of the gross domestic product to research and ending precariously. A new strategy is also needed for the basic productive sectors. In the field you have to expand useful agricultural area, create a group of Welsh milk; and in forest policy you have to bet on quality woods, for closing the cycle by generating added value. In the sea we have to recover the rivers, bet on defending the interests of the fisheries sector to the Brexit and achieve the status of a highly dependent fishing zone in the European Union. Thirdly, it is essential for us to activate a Greek agenda before Madrid, to claim pending competences — not only about AP-9, we speak about ports and airports, maritime rescue or road safety — a timetable for the transfer of ENCE out of the river Pontevedra, the payment by the State of the outer port of the Crown, the creation of specific judges against gender violence in all the cities of Greece or a model just to finance our councils. And in view of the lack of weight and the irrelevance to which Galicia leads, we have of course that we cannot miss the trains of nations. This is going to be a fundamental debate in the state over the next few years and what it can't be is that Galicia is missing. That is why we believe that Parliament has to speak, and to speak we propose a presentation where we address the needs of self-government in our country and move forward so that Galicia has a new status. We have it clear, Galicia is a nation and we want them to recognize us as what we are and with the ability to decide on those aspects that are key to people's lives: economy, territory, language, culture, energy or territorial model, what we need in order to give people solutions in this country. And what we say is that we speak, that we dialogue between all the Greeks and the Greeks. And what we ask you to do is you don't keep tainting a debate that's going to be key and in which Galicia can't remain missing or kidnapped by the position of the People's Party. [[Applause]] There are three urgent issues in relation to social welfare. We need to recover the public health pulse with a plan to improve primary care that recovers management, a shock program against waiting lists, end work insecurity and rescue Vigo Hospital. Dependently, claim the 200 million, remove the coke and increase the day and residence centers. And, of course, less bonus-propaganda and more social policy are needed. We will incorporate, Mr Feijóo, the 0-3-year course of child education in public education. You know what we're gonna get with that? That all the people in this country don't have to pay in that way and therefore be free. And, of course, it must be guaranteed by law that not a single euro will be allocated to those companies that violate conciliation rights. [[Applause]] For us the fight against macho violence must be a priority. And here's what we're proposing is that the law be complied with — because the German Law against gender violence is being violated — and that we have more resources: 1% of the board budget. We think that devoting 1 euro per 100 euros to such an important issue, which is a moral imperative, how to safeguard women's lives, is little. And we say we have to do it for Sandra, for Alba and Maria Elena. They're the last three victims, but they're not all victims. We have to do it for all the women who were murdered, for whom they can no longer speak, and especially for those who come after them, because we have to leave them a better country. [[Applause]] And finally, a capital issue for our identity. We're a people, we have a language. And here we propose very basic things: the first is that they comply with the law, that they end up discrimination against people who speak the language; resources to support the policies of normalization of language in all areas, because there is an irrespirable asphyxiation; and, finally, a new decree for Greek in teaching that guarantees something that says the current Statute, and that everyone has full control when they finish their educational stage.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u28	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u29	And he knows that his policies are what they're doing is precisely attacking Greek. And, look, for freedom there must be equality. And at this moment, the German is still in a position of inequality. In conclusion, Mr President, these are concrete proposals that aim to solve the problems that Galicia has. Obviously, seen from Montepío's shortcut, that happy Arcadia kind of thing in which there are no problems, because it's probably hard to match in the diagnosis. Anyway, I'd also like to end up asking you a few questions. Mr. Feijóo, after all his row of unfulfilled promises, what is the value of his word? These are your promises. It's not worth anything, Mr. Feijó. Galicia deserves a president or president who knows the reality that the people of this country live in their day-to-day lives, which is not that happy Arcadia you've lived in. I'm sorry, the one that gave birth to us in the morning. [[Applause]] And I'm done. I started by saying that today was a day of concern to Galicia and that I am actually worried about Galicia. But I'm also excited about Galicia's future. Galicia has a great future if we change course. Galicia needs a transcendent government, with its own voice in Madrid, and it puts it at the center of its agenda so that really in this country there will be opportunities. And that is, of course, the commitment we have made in this debate with all the Greeks and all the Greeks: working to win the promised future that we deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. For the Joint Left Group, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u31	Good afternoon to all and to all. Every time he has a chance, the President of the Union converts what is a debate about the state of the nation and its self-government into a fair where he exposes his vanity. It transforms what is an accountability and the exposure of government policies to address the problems and challenges of Greeks and Greeks in an exercise of cynicism, prepotence and propaganda. Once again, he repeated the same post in the past ten years: he hides his responsibilities without abruptness, manipulates data to convenience, resorts to victimism to cover up his incompetence, mind about the consequences of his policies; and everything not to face ten years of insubstantial government, ten years in which the words "PP" meant "publicity and propaganda." His speech is nothing more than a smokescreen not to account for his management: ten years of cuts and inequalities, austerity, lack of political initiative and defeat of our self-government. It began in 2009 by offering a "government 10", and a decade later the only thing it succeeded was to convert Galicia into "zero zone" of a failed neoliberal experiment and weakest self-government, with the dismantling of fundamental productive sectors, the policy of environmental resources, the demographic decline and abandonment of rural communities, the prostration and defence of the Greek language and culture, an information bite, less democracy and no real commitment to corruption and the supportive use of institutions. [[Applause]] Black's on the scene. It is because it is the color against male violence, against the deaths we knew in Valga, this dark masque violence that needs proper and properly budgeted public policies to solve—"black cursed caravel", as our national poet, Rosalía de Castro said." We need will, we need resources, but we also need clear political positions and nests. And what doesn't help is to deal with those who deny malevolence, who insult women, who insult victims. And you deal with them every time they need it, every time they have a chance, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Blacks are also Fridays where public television professionals denounce information manipulation practices at CRTVG because of their dignity. From the Joint Left Group today, in the Galician Parliament, we want to give public recognition to the professionals who fight and face by decent public means, independent of the partyist greed and far from the manipulation that you apply to your own benefit. The last addition to Radio Galega for gift of prestige is the people's ex-validator, who put Manuel Fraga's niece in. As one sentence is well-detailed, it's the modus operandi that leads to corruption in his political DNA. With a lot of "decor" you, once again, point out that there are classes here, that yours do not assume responsibilities but are recognized, with projections in the Workplace or with tertules in a public environment. The one who plugs his own into an institution that should in theory be to support citizenship is an example of prestige for you. The same prestige must be what you have among those who fight against corruption. Propaganda in front of reality, lies that fill newspapers, the money of everyone serving their party... because it's all advertising and propaganda. Watch out!, with remarkable successes. Of course, when you're evicted from Galician union, your communication people will have no trouble finding work. Working so deeply to try to get people to forget the picture with their friend Martial Dorada or Santiago Abascal in Columbus Square has a lot of merit. Media manipulation is the central part of its government. With it it seeks to conceal the fiascos of its policies, the intrinsic corruption of its party, the real problems of people and the measures that favor the powerful. And the person who defends the dignity of his profession in the Greek media will be pointed out, will be reprisaled. Black is also the color of struggle and denunciation for public health professionals; professionals who have been mobilising for years against cuts, to prevent private business from being above life and death. The struggle of these professionals shows that a public service can hardly be a business at the same time. And we remember the hepatitis C patients, and we remember the death in the Road CAP. Our recognition also for the CAPs standing in war, for the nurses in struggle, for the janitors and the janitors. We are also with the collective citizens and activists who defend our natural heritage against the environmental aggressions that we suffer, that you tolerate and with those who are convivient; with the citizens who organize themselves against the depredation of our territory and our resources; citizens and citizens who see as the corsar interests of a few multinationals take precedence over their lives, their homes, their natural environments, full of wealth. Thanks to collectives like Save the Iribio, to the people who are against the Bull Mine, to the people of Lousame, who are fighting against the corruption of the mine of their government. Thanks to those who defended the Eiros Cave from its disgust, to the people of Cabana de Bergantiños, Coristanco, Santa Comba, who joined together to prevent the aggressions of companies that came into government as theirs to spoil the country. Thanks, by the way, to the people of Tameiga, in Mos, who plant their faces -- they're planted these days -- to the urban ballast that their party intends to perpetrate in their Town Hall and defend the communal mountain as a source of the future. What you're doing in Mos is going back to those times of impunity, corruption and speculation. Thanks also to the Clean Water Xa platform, which defends a healthy and balanced future in the boundary region. There are ultimately so many conflicts in Galicia as attempts to sell at the cost of balance or our territory. This small place in the world called Galicia is a place of conflict starring by the common people who have to face giants: David against Goliath, the common citizen against the predators. And with the predators, the governments that should be with the ordinary people who make laws according to the multinationals to aggravate even more, above, that difference. [[Applause]] Our solidarity with workers and business workers who struggle for decent work in all these labour conflicts with closing threats that they are spreading these days before their inaction in economic and industrial politics. My gratitude also to the entities that defend our heritage throughout the country. Our recognition of the platforms that defend the right to housing against their policies for banks and voitre funds. Thanks to the thousands of women who walk out the street saying loud and clear "not to macho violence" and who move the country towards real equality. Thanks also to the people who keep the language alive despite a government that attacks it, who uses their own institutions to attack their own language. Thanks to the people of culture who suffer from their policies. All these collectives, and many more, form that active and conscious Galicia, which is a symptomatic response, but which also carries within it alternatives to its policies. That is why we, in the Galician Parliament, took sides. We do this in this House, assassed every time it is used to attack the general interest of our people's well-being and to curb the progress of self-government. We're doing this against neoliberal policies that you carry out as relics of powers that are not presented to the elections. You're talking about the state situation, the situation in which the People's Party is also responsible, by the way, when it suits you, and when the People's Party doesn't occupy the Government. In the seven years that Mariano Rajoy occupied the Government you were an obedient militant of the People's Party who did not say anything to the successive atrocities and atrocities that the People's Party committed with Galicia. Since Mariano Rajoy was evicted from the Moncloa, you try to complain about the state's relationship with Galicia. But, Mr. Feijoo, how many autonomous powers have been transferred to Galicia since you are president? You complain about the debt of the 700 million euros that the state has with Galicia, but what did you do in ten years to change a financing system that diminishes our sovereignty? Now I hope you understand that being the owners of our money is fundamental to public policy. Nor is there any trace in those ten years - seven years with Mr. Rajoy - of a new local funding system that is not discriminatory for the Greek municipalities. You, Mr. Feijóo, exercised before the militant of the People's Party rather than the president of Galicia. Whenever the PP was in the Government in Madrid he was docile, and now he's not covering with Galicia the miseries of his evil management. Be more respectful of this country. You see the partisan lead. You shut down when your party anti-democraticly blocked the law unanimously passed in this Welsh Parliament for the transfer of AP-9, just as you shut down in the privatization of the country's main road infrastructure when you were a Territorial Policy Advisor. Shameful privatisation, the price of a friend, to earn friends from the board of directors. [[Applause]] Now he talks about Pedro Sánchez not to talk about, for example, his housing policy. You've had the Government in the last ten years, Mr. Rajoy has been seven years in the Government. Many citizens, thousands, have been expelled from their homes. You've made policies obeying the instructions of speculators, banks, voitre funds. They bought with billions of public money the so-called toxic assets of the banks and created the so-called "bad bank" to stay with the housing they didn't want. And you've applied a criminal policy by not making it available to people who needed it, because the banks have decided so that they don't lower their prices and they don't affect their balance sheets. You, as always, when it came to applying neoliberal orthodoxy and, above all, getting along with the powerful ones, were especially fulfilling. He stopped the construction of public housing and self-protection, placing Galicia in the state's queued van. When you arrived, 1,900 self-protection homes have been built; in the last three years, an average of five homes a year. Budgets have dropped by 68%, and executions have been ridiculous, but today the drama continues, because in the defeat data family dramas are hidden, Mr Feijóo; individual pains that must come out of the privacy of homes and must become citizen indignation and political activation against those who apply these policies. Let's think of those boys and girls who can't start a life plan because they can't reach the end of the month or because they can't afford a rent. You, family advocates, what policies have you designed in this regard? Do you think the prices of housing and the wages of poverty don't have to do with that demographic crisis, with emigration, Mr Feijóo? [[Applause]] In the country of 300,000 empty homes, you, the management champion, have made it available to people who need 20 homes in three years, with their star program, the empty housing program. Listen carefully: 20 houses in three years. The management champion, Mr. Feijóo, with his star program, where he must have spent more on advertising than on running it, helped in 2018, to mobilize empty housing, two aids. [[Applause]] It's a real shame, an insult to the intelligence of the Galicians and the Greeks. Their policies — if so — spoil lives. Their policies condemn youth to precariousness. And that's why they're interested in diverting attention, because they're not interested in talking about their responsibilities, for example, in the liquidation of the Greek financial system and in the destruction of the German economic and industrial fabric. He promised a box of Welsh and we have a private bank, Venezuelan, sold at the price of the bargain. That's why I ask you, Mr. Feijó: do you have anything to hide? Well, if you have nothing to hide, Mr. Feijóo, remove the blockade to activate the Box Research Commission, which has been paralyzed for five years by your will. Stop hiding information from the Galicians and the Greeks. You're afraid, aren't you, that we know the truth? And that has consequences, that liquidation. The productive economy suffered in its own flesh the liquidation of our financial system and the lack of industrial policy of its government. So, it's no wonder the 22,000 lost industrial jobs between 2009 and 2019. One in five industrial jobs destroyed. We are at the head of the state, too, in the destruction of industrial employment. And many of the Greek families are behind those layoffs. Hide and lie with the liquidation of the financial system. His merger was -- he was -- he was -- he was -- he was -- he was -- he was -- he was -- he was -- he was -- he was -- he was -- he was -- he was -- he was -- he was -- he wasn't -- he wasn't -- he wasn't, he wasn't, he wasn't, he wasn't, he wasn't, he wasn't, he was auditing. Instead, with the benefits of the first year, Abanca has already recovered the price it paid for the purchase of New Galician Box. And we're not talking about anything, we're talking about 40% of the saving of Welsh and Welsh, which happened to a Venezuelan bank. See that Venezuelan connections are more concerned here in this country, Mr. Feijóo. Banking, once privatized, betted on the de-investment of financial assets. A single example, R, and to see how it affects employment and the country's economy lacks its own financial system. Bank got 200 million euros of surpluses for selling their shares in R. Now R assistant workers are threatened by relocation, by losing their jobs, by decisions of companies with operations centres outside Galicia, like Euskaltel. Would it not be different if these shares were owned by a public bank or a Greek credit social entity? And so many more cases up to add between 2014 and 2015 investments worth 7 billion euros, which was what made cash with their privatization at the bargain price. By the way, privatization in which Galicia couldn't say, nor could you. Of course, you didn't have any responsibility here either, did you? He promised a merger to have a yellow box. We have a Venezuelan private bank, and you have no responsibility. Well, then, if you have no responsibility, stop blocking the Box Research Commission. By the way, one more example of this constant looting is that this sanitized bank with 9,000 million euros of public money, bought by 1,003 million euros, sold its share in Itinere in 2018 - owned by AP9 - by 310 million. Looting and looting, legalized by you, the white glove thieves that act, yes, with total decorum. I'd miss more! We're talking about propaganda, not politics, because its star measures are not just headlines. What about your great proposal for administrative management for Galicia? In this same House he pulled out a rabbit from the joke saying that the merger of municipalities would provide a new administrative model for our country, when I proposed that fusion of Oza-Cesuras. After seven years, what do we have? Two mergers, no metropolitan area working, no comarcallization. And the model of a country's administrative organization is the basis for endogenous economic development, quality public services anywhere in the country, and public policy planning capacity. Nor was he able to order the territory to take advantage of the resources we have as a country. In a country with a negative food balance of some 900 million euros a year, where the livestock sector imports millions daily in food, the useful agricultural area, that is, the land to work, to grow, does not stop coming down. The survival of a sector that is strategic for rural areas, such as the livestock sector, depends on the reduction in dependence on this sector, on the import of inputs. And you're finishing up with the main resource to get that model. According to the latest official data from the Galician Agricultural Exploitation Survey, it lost this country in three years 34,000 hectares of this useful agricultural area, 16 times more than in the state average. But since we are packed with the promises that Mr. Feijóo once again made in the morning - many of them already very often - we remember that promise of the beginning of this legislation, in which he said he was going to finish the 128 active partial concentration processes at that time. At this point, Mr. Feijóo, we can now say that it is another promise that you will fail. Did you lie to the Greeks or is it a problem of incompetence? Well, just as in 2015, the magic solution would be a law, Metaga, which, in your opinion, would be the definitive instrument of mobilising land, now, in view of this data, you announce a new law. After ten years of government, we believe that we are no longer here to hear promises, but to see facts. In 2017, what many have been warning, and the fire has caused panic in our country: thousands of hectares have been burned and four people have died. You have never heeded — proud and dedicated to defending the model that fits the Ence — the warnings that the fires were changing and becoming much more dangerous, and we had the example of Portugal in the Pedrogão. After these fires, they didn't assume their responsibilities and tried to divert attention from conspiracy theories, but experts' reports make it clear, either in 1990 or in 2006 or 2019. They say that in order to end the fires, you have to make a complete amendment to your forest and rural policies, you have to reduce the expansion of the eucalyptus, you have to diversify the mountain, you have to preserve the land and you have to fix the population in rural areas and not expel it, as you do. You have to have a public fire fighting device, professional and trained, and not do business with the fire. The experts say you have to do the opposite of what you do, but it's not chance, nor incompetence, you defend certain interests. [[Applause]] To end the atomization of the mountain and conquer the joint management, he promised a solution, after finishing the proposal of the two-party government. He promised the Forest Development Societies. And ten years later, with this mechanism, with this miraculous solution promised by Mr Feijóo, he was able to bring together throughout the country, in the country of 1,000 acres of forest area, 4,500 acres, 0.2% of Galicia's forest area. A failure to add to the long list. His work for the interests of the great economic powers is tireless, he is the guide of his government. The case of the wind sector is enlightening. Where there could be a resource to generate wealth for rural people and help fix the population, you make laws as long as the benefits of the wind fly away from our people and about a few privileged, and pass over people's rights. They apply the declaration of public utility and the consequent forced expropriation as a mechanism of extortion to accept the conditions imposed by Endesa, Iberdrola, Natural Gas, Voitre funds, Saudi Arabia funds, etc., etc., which ultimately lead the wind business. They call public utility a huge privatized business. It's infamous! With you taking advantage of them, the foreign capital conglomerates are made from the territory to exploit the wind, even if it is the cost of destroying the landscape, the heritage or the people's daily life. Even now they are responsible for the establishment of a wind farm in the middle of the Natura River, in the Iribio saw, in a People's Party-style processing, full of the worst practices of their party. Pure chirp and corruption! If I had unlimited time, I would tell you about the administrative process, which you know for sure, because it's people very close to the People's Party. [[Applause]] Of course, there were other alternatives for energy development, democratic development, in people's hands, with public participation, with respect to the country, but they chose the predation, and so, in a country where we suffered the spore of the rivers, the lignite spolium, now you allow the wind spolium. A decade lost. This is the synthetic balance of the economy, employment, social welfare, public accounts, industrial structure and the financial system. His government was a lost decade; lost to the job, where we have 54,000 jobs less, 54,000 jobs less. Of these jobs, 22,000 were in the industry; in fact, 1 out of every 3 jobs lost in the industrial sector in the Spanish state correspond to Galicia. We have 6% of the state's industrial employment and we have lost 34% of the state's industrial employment, and that's why industry workers' mobilisations, which are in danger and multiply: Alcohol, Isowat, Polygal... add up and continue, and you have no solutions. And finally, of the 17 autonomous communities that make up the Spanish State, only 5 have destroyed jobs in the last ten years, and Galicia has the sad privilege of leading that blacklist, in front of Asturias and Castile and León. He was talking about capital capture, making Galicia attractive to the capital. Well, you approved the Business Initiatives Promotion Act, more known as the Predation Law, with the excuse of making Galicia more attractive for foreign investment. We've already said no, that it was an excuse to modify the Law of the wind sector according to the electrics, the Law of mining, to deprotect the environment, and the Law of Mountains, to faten the model Enc. And here are the results. In 2018 Galicia picked up 65.4 million euros of foreign direct investment, only 5 million euros a month. This low figure assumes that Galicia has only been able to capture 0.1% of foreign investment in the Spanish State. And you're talking about being a referencer in innovation. Today Galicia hasn't recovered the innovation expenditure you had when you arrived at the Government. And to talk about the return of the investigators, I think it's almost a lack of respect for them, after all these years you've been expelled from them. [[Applause]] Austerity champions, who first began to cut down, and those who did so more harshly, resulted in a serious deterioration in the quality of public services and a greater slowdown in the economy and employment. The distribution of spending cuts demonstrates this desire to privatize large public services: it reduces health and education spending while increasing the presence of the private sector in these areas, which is the final objective. Hardest cuts were produced in areas such as housing or employment. Just in the years when people lost their jobs and lost their housing, their government cut 68% of the budget and 58% of the employment policy. The only game that has grown significantly was the payment of the debt service. When you arrived, you spent 4 euros per 100 of the Galician board budget, and now you're dedicated to 20. And austerity policies have consequences, they have the consequence, for example, that Galicia has grown less in these ten years than in the average state. Are you the warrant, the guard of the multinational estate? In the housing, you work for the banks; in the energy, for the electric oligopolie; in the health, with those who do business for a resource, a public service essential for the health of people. You are the ones who have changed the Law from back to back according to the interests of Ence, to guarantee another seventy years to a company that conditions not only life in the river Pontevedra, but the forest model throughout the country. You didn't say anything when you changed your back law in 2013 and left this country without the last word to decide whether to stay or not by Ence in the laugh. And something has to do with the names in the board of directors, such as Isabel Tocino, Carlos del Alamo or Pascual Fernández, prominent representatives of the People's Party, who makes that economy circular, not the environment, but that money goes around again and again from public to private and private to the public. Because in the end, in front of Galicia, there are business, the capitalism of friends, which goes from politics to the boards of administration, filled with friends and well-paid favors. [[Applause]] That's why AP-9 continues to have abusive prices for users, so Audasa continues to scandalously increase its profits fired, the result of the privatization of this infrastructure by Government Aznar, when you were counsellor. Privatization at friend price. Impossible lucrative business without the complicit hand that writes the DOG. This shows you a list that goes through Ence, through AP-9, through the privatization of the wind, through health, etc., etc. You choose, and you choose to bet on power and you choose to bet on the aggression of the majority of society. Between a wind sector in people's hands, you choose the benefit of the electricians; between getting the miners to comply with the law and paying for the restoration of the exploited spaces, you choose to socialize the losses and privatize the benefits. Instead of defending the right to housing, you defend the speculators. With you this country has stuck to all levels, also as far as the population is concerned. And one of the factors that influences is the emigration of youth. You can hardly reverse this trend if young people have to look outside for the opportunities that you here deny them. And we're not talking about numbers anymore, we're talking about everyone around us knowing what's going on with youth in this country...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u32	It's over, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u33	What you offer young people in this country is precariousness, instability, lack of expectations, inaccessible living, and that's why we suffer this indentation. We need a government that works for the general interest and not to practice corruption, which is to work for the interests of the powerful and betray the majority. We need a government that is capable of carrying out the great challenges that we have been facing for too long; a government that with citizenship, with that Galicia that moves, sets the foundations for a future, that must go through greater democracy and think of the common good and not the privatization of resources and the precariousization of our lives. A future that passes through a sovereign and full Galicia, which from the zero minute bet on strengthening its self-government, because we trust this country and its people. We must take care of our youth and provide them with the necessary conditions so they can live here. All this, ultimately, for what you weren't who, or didn't want to do, and for what it was an obstacle. We have to activate all Galicia that moves to defend its rights. There's a Galician tired of her false promises, an emigrant Galician who has to go to other countries, because here you don't let her live. There's a Galicia that I've been able to resist, that I've been able to move forward, that has not been rescinded, that has been organized in the streets, from the movements, to criticize austerity policies. Like Penelope, he counts on the patience needed to know that the changes are late, but at the same time he knows that before or after his end he will arrive. Mr. President of the Cunta de Galicia, with us is the memory of Castelao, with us is the anti-Francist memory, eager memory, laid down for years of struggle. Forgive this House for manifesting himself with the ultra-right in Columbus or stop awarding medals in the name of the principal leader of that Galician Party that in 1936 was with the Popular Front, an anti-fascist front...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u34	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u35	Mr Feijóo, the beginning of the end of his term of office has come, at the end of policies that leave Galicia in a situation of prostration with which the Greeks and the Greeks, by their vote, must end. We can't accept that those who caused the crisis are strengthened and those who suffered it go out with less rights. The Galicia of progress, of the world of work, of trade unionism, of letters, of the arts, of social movements knows that you and the People's Party are a problem that we have to seek a democratic solution to. A majority of this House is in favour of political change, equality and the impulse of our self-government, for the defence of our common goods and for the service of most Greeks and Greeks. One step forward, Galicia; one step forward in rights, in freedoms, and one step forward for the majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u36	Time's up. Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Caballero Míguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Union, ladies and gentlemen, authorities and guests present today in this House, Welsh and Germans who follow us from their homes. Galicia is our cause, the Galician citizenship with its own history, language and culture, compatible with a common history and project within Spain and within the European Union. As Ramón Piñeiro said, "we are Greeks before and below all philosophical, political, religious or sceptical ideas that can differentiate us. That is spontaneous Galeguism which encourages in all the Greek hearts, but there is also, as in all things, a reflexive and conscious Galeguism." The debate on the state of autonomy must also be a reflection exercise on the country and on its situation, on our demographic, economic and social developments and on the political causes that motivate it. This is the last debate in the state of autonomy this decade, the last debate on the state of autonomy of this legislation, and I have to tell you, Mr. President, Mr. Feijóo, with all due respect, that your intervention this morning only certifys that your project is exhausted, that it has no initiative or project for what remains of legislation. [[Applause]] With your speech, Mr. Feijóo, you recognize that your political time in front of Galicia is over, that you have no capacity to give Galicia the future you need, that you have neither the will nor the commitment necessary to meet the challenges of a new decade. [[Applause]] Mr. Feijóo, during this morning you made a political speech that lacks strategic guidance, initiative and direction to our country. It's a farewell speech, no proposals to solve the real problems of citizenship and full of patches of minor silence, which tries to avoid a reality that bothers you. With you there is no future project for Galicia, and it has focused much of its intervention on confronting the socialist government and Pedro Sánchez. Today you came to make an election campaign speech, start the electoral company of generals and autonomics; but, as the classic said, "there's no favourable wind for those who don't know where they're going." It's time for reflection. Mr. Feijóo, take more than ten years to the front of the Union and the balance of his government is fundamentally negative. Galicia is going to be less, Galicia has been the worst, let us have a more childish Galicia, with less impulses, less vitality and less possibilities for the future. [[Murmurs.]] The data speak for themselves, Mr. Feijóo: over the last ten years his government has tripled the public debt, placing it above 18% of GDP; today there are fewer Greeks and Greeks working that ten years ago; he has suffered long-term unemployment; there are more homes with all members unemployed; there are funds problems of inequality, poverty and exclusion risks; there are fewer people living from the sea and fewer fishing vessels; there have fallen agricultural holdings and there is less agricultural area used; he has abandoned the rural environment; we have lost industrial weight; he has cut funds in education and health in primary care; he has eliminated public housing policies; and he has breached his own commitments in infrastructure. Just like we're talking about the arrival of AVE to Lugo, which he promised already in 2009, the high-capacity route on the north coast or the Plan Move itself. One more year, promise again what you promised in so many years before. It's no longer unbelievable, Mr. Feijó. [[Applause]] It is true that over the course of this decade we have experienced a fundamental economic crisis, but it is also true that the Spanish economy has experienced the highest growth rates in Western Europe and that there has been margin for good politics. He had absolute power, with absolute majority untied, in these ten years, but he used them as a roller to apply the policy of unstrategic cuts. [[Murmurs.]] You, Mr. Feijóo, have managed more than 100 billion euros of the ark of the Council of Galicia over these ten years. If we update those figures, we're closer to 200 billion euros. With so much money, it's clear that a lot of things have been done, but just because you had that ability to spend and the results have not been favorable is why the failure of your government is evidenced. The People's Party likes to stress the importance of employment as a social policy, and it is true that the ability to generate employment is a fundamental issue for any society. Well, ten years after his arrival in Galicia, today in Galicia, there's less work than ten years ago: we've moved from 1,152,000 busy workers to 1,098,000, Mr. Feijóo. Why in Galicia have 54,000 been busy less than ten years ago while in Spain there are 650,000 more in the same period of time? Why is there more work in Spain and Galicia, after its decade, there is less work? [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] If we use the number of hours indicator worked, we'll see that the fall in Galicia would make the problem of employment even more evident. And if we take into account that the quality of employment is worse and that wages have less weight in GDP in relative terms, we conclude a balance sheet characterized by less employment, more precariousness and lower relative wage mass. When employment has slipped, demography doesn't jump; it's not the only cause, but it's important. A country with less opportunities is a country that expels young people and loses its chances in demographic revitalization. Galicia's demographic evolution is getting worse and worse. Every year fewer children are born, and in Galicia we have the worst vegetative balance, in absolute terms, from all Spain, from all communities: for every born Greek, two die; 16,000 are born and 32,000 die. Galicia becomes an exceptional case because of its negative content in Europe and in the world. We're already less than 2,700,000 of Galicians and Greeks. Less people, less Galicia. Two months ago, you quoted in one of those speeches that prepare you for the work of Daron Acemoglu and James Robinson, Why nations fail? Why do nations fail? [[Laughter]] For more than 20 years, I've studied the role of institutions in the economy. [[Murmurs.]] Today there is a general consensus that concludes that institutions are the crucial element for economic growth and development and that governments and policies constitute a fundamental determinant in the institutional framework of a society. [[Murmurs.]] This turns out, Mr Feijóo, that policies made for Galicia are key to our country's success or failure. And when the balance is negative, we have to assume the relevant political responsibilities. The evolution of the industrial sector is a clear example of this failure. The last trimesters of the Welsh macroeconomic evolution point to a slowdown in growth. External investments in Galicia are weak and there are certain alerts in our exports. But it's industry data that worries the most. The German industrial sector is around 16% of GDP, the result of a fundamentally worrying industrial downturn in the Greek economic structure. You, Mr. Feijóo, haven't done industrial policy and the results are what they are. In the black decade in which you rejected the Galician industry, the list of companies in crisis that fell, or even disappeared, including Caramel, Alfageme, Pórtico, Pescanova, Banco Pastor, Banco Popular, Caixa Galicia, Caixanova and thousands of pemes. There are multiple causes. I don't make a simplistic speech, but you're the president. Galicia's industrial fall has been shown in recent quarters, with negative rates in the evolution of the gross value added in the industrial sector. And the IPI series picks up a sharp contraction of industrial activity in Galicia for the last six months. The technological and new industrial agenda policies applied by his government have been as insufficient as the work of his advisor. Moreover, the behaviour of the foreign sector in Galicia in the first half of 2019 was negative, with the autonomous community whose exports were more backward than the same period of the previous year. It's a warning. Their economic failure is accompanied, moreover, by failures in social policy that make society less inclusive and more unequal. According to the World Health Organization, 14,000 places are missing in homes for older people in Galicia. This is the balance of his decade of government in an increasingly aging country, with older people. The Ortega Foundation had to appear to alleviate its non-compliance with the construction of 7 major residences in the cities of Greece. Mr. Feijóo, Galicia deserves a president to tell you the truth. Today you lied to this House by presenting a false and interested account. I recognized, valued and publicly thanked the Ortega Foundation's decision, but they concluded the suspension of their government's policies. There are the recordings of my intervention in all the media. Forgive yourself for your insinuations and correct. [[Applause]] Stop basing, Mr. Feijóo, your speeches in the tweets of your secretary general. [[Applause]] Don't mind Mr. Tellado and Mr. Rueda and listen more to Mr. Puy. And by the way, Mr. Feijóo... when they report on the tasks in this House, they also tell you that, in view of what you have said, the Socialist Parliamentary Group has submitted consideration to the Plan for the Jacobean 2021 you have. We have it there with the entry log. [[Laughter]] Education is a priority for the Greek socialists as a generator of equality and opportunities for the future. Unembargent, you cut in 180 million euros the annual expenditure on education, reduced the number of non-university teachers by nearly 1,500, eliminated the freeness of textbooks, and worsened the working conditions of teachers. The universities have also suffered their cuts, and we see that there is an ever-increasing teaching framework, with a gap that hasn't incorporated teachers since the age of 20 or 30 in order to be able to apply and contribute to their most vanguardist knowledge and research lines. The university ages, and when the university doesn't renew, it ends up dying too. Another of their non-compliances affects the education of children aged between 0 and 3 years. At the beginning of this legislation you promised a zero waiting list in the junior schools of the Union, but three years later hundreds of children don't get places and thousands don't even have a school near to request. You now announce a partial correction of your policies, and you do well to rectify it, but the problem of child schooling remains a pending subject. The failure of childhood schools and squares in homes for adults implies a perverse scenario. When social policies are suspended, families and, in particular, women are forced to focus their activities on child care and older care. This is very good when it's a freely elected decision, but when the public doesn't respond, it's a limitation on women's freedom and work opportunities. Reconciliation is impossible and personal and professional development is penalized. Is that the role they've reserved for women in Galicia? We have to develop in Galicia the fourth pillar of the welfare state, that of helping the dependency, which implies the dignity of our older people and of people with diversity. And bear in mind, in addition, Mr Feijóo, that social expenditure is, on the one hand, a dynamizer of consumption, aggregate demand and economic activity; and, on the other hand, that if the Union releases women's capacities to work in the most exciting economic sectors of the country, we will be opening up more possibilities for Galicia in the future. We are explaining to you, Mr Feijóo, why economic policy is more than just cutting policy and how the self-government can play a dynamizing role in the Greek economic activity, a virtuous circle from social policy to the productive activity of the country. This is a priority, and also not to lower taxes to great wealth and wealth, as you did. And if your suspension is notorious for so many public management issues, we have to tell you that it's a health checkup. You invested 189 million euros less in primary care than in 2009, cut personnel and precariously the conditions of the professionals, reduced the number of hospital beds, eliminated health areas, worsened the situation of primary care, weakened CAPs, reduced services in many municipalities, and also diverted health care. You put Welsh public health in the UVI, and only when thousands of Galicians and Greeks went out into the street in municipalities all over the country, then you had to recognize the failure. He also had to die a patient at the Road CAP without medical assistance to recognize the severity of the problem. In Galicia there are only 448 doctors for every 100,000 inhabitants — the third worst data from all of Spain. [[Murmurs.]] Primary physicians get over the days with more than 50 patients a day, and we have the third worst community rated health by citizens. You're throwing balloons out today. All of Galicia knows that you, Mr. Feijóo, have deteriorated as manager and as ruler the quality of the public health system. Even the political frameworks of the PP know this, which second motions and initiatives in the municipalities against dismantling and the cuts in their health policy. [[Applause]] Mr. Feijóo, this legislation was once lost for Galicia; a law of inaction: you focused on your personal aspirations for political promotion and most parliamentary control of the PP with undominated duties. Parliament is not legislating, Parliament is not settling. The knee on the right has flattened parliamentary life and contributed to suffocating Galicia. Throughout this legislation, the number of laws passed by this House was the lowest in the history of autonomy. Only 18 laws went forward in these three years; record of inactivity, passivity, a suitable position of an indolent People's Party in the face of the country's needs and demands. If today we ask the Greeks to see us through the TVG to signal three positive decisions for them adopted by the board in this legislation, I'm sorry to tell you, Mr. Feijóo, that we will meet with silence. No response because there is no political action. That's the difference between a government that governs and a government that centred its management on mere speculation about the political career of its leader. You see, Mr. Feijóo, after fifteen months of a socialist government in Spain, all citizenship can point to a handful of decisions made by that government that improve their lives. We know the importance of raising pensions to more than 700,000 pensioners in Galicia - and I remember the letter from his government in Madrid to each of the pensioners in homes - we know the importance of raising the minimum inter-professional wage to some 100,000 Greeks, providing more coverage to the self-employed, re-universizing public health or betting on equality. [[Murmurs.]] The Greeks are doing well with a socialist government in Spain. More than a million Greeks have seen their income improved directly on the basis of the socialist government's decisions. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u38	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u39	Governance for citizenship, Mr. Feijóo, is what the Government does in Spain and that also explains the recent election results in Galicia. They don't disconnect from the reality of the country they vote for. [[Applause]] Mr. Feijóo, he passed this legislation mourning his escalation to Madrid, but his plans did not come out of him. [[Murmurs.]] You are here because you have failed to lead your party in Spain, you are here in front of your desire and will, as a result of the only path that has remained viable for you. But it is noted, Mr. Feijóo, that you do not want to rule or are pending the problems of Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] You show boredom, tiredness, lack of commitment, and Galicia deserves something more. He stopped ruling and opted for confrontation. He confronted the Government of Spain before the general elections, but the Greeks didn't buy his speech. And now he opts again for confrontation, making Galician Union available to the strategy of the conflict imposed on him by Casado and Alvarez de Toledo. Over the past few weeks, you have played your last letter in the confrontation strategy, adding to an account of the alleged injury in relation to the update of your deliveries to the account. [[Murmurs.]] After the People's Party voted against budgets that increased the financing of autonomy by EUR 7 billion, you wanted to forget that fact and confront the Government. We have told him more than two hundred times that socialists are the guarantee of the state of autonomy, the guarantee of self-financing, and that during this year the update of deliveries would be delivered but always in accordance with the law. He didn't want to listen and gave himself up to a story that had a very short walk. He used that strategy of electoral lifeguards without understanding that that floater was pinned. Now, when the Government develops a legal mechanism that enables the transfer of funds, how curious!, on its Twitter the first writing is: "What a shame!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh I mean, the government solves what you consider to be the main problem for Galicia and you're still opting for confrontation. Aren't they glad when positive measures are taken for Galicia? [[Murmurs.]] Did everything feel good to you when Rajoy ruled and everything seems so bad to you when Pedro Sánchez ruled? [[Murmurs.]] He already said that who was a member of this House for several legislates, companion Ceferino Díaz: "In essence, we let ourselves be carried away, apparently working and blaming others when things don't work; that is, cheating, because if there is government in Galicia, it will be for something more than to materialize what they plan and fund other administrations. Self-government gives us competence and resources to hold us accountable for the good government of the country." I understand, Mr. Feijóo, that you are concerned. His speech doesn't take him anywhere. We are facing a cycle closure, a country with problems and a government unable to solve them. And that's why we know there's a new majority in Galicia. The other day he told me ironically that I was very nice in my intervention. With all due respect, Mr. Feijóo, I want to tell you that the citizenry lives in a Galician place other than what you advertise and draw. You've been in high office for more than 20 years, going up to the official car, and you've lost contact with the country's reality. His policies and his role as president of the Union today generate antipathy in much of citizenship, the burden of a leader who doesn't make decisions or empathize with people's problems, and that's why he lost three elections in the next year. He was left alone, without connections on the territory, without his ruling party in any of the great cities of Greece. The only reference you have in Galicia is the contranatural pact that was lethal for Ourense and that you made between that lethality for Ourense and the maximum exponent of caciquism in Galicia. No president of the Union in the history of German autonomy has been as politically isolated as you. [[Applause]] And this is evidence of cycle change. Mr. Feijóo, we are a constitutionalist party, committed to Greek autonomy, but since the criticism and dialectical confrontation of the project we will be able to recognize their efforts and work in front of the Galician Union. We discriminated against his balance sheet, we noticed his lack of initiative and his lack of project. You don't want to rule, you don't want to rule Galicia anymore. A few weeks ago you even dared to propose not to make budgets; an unprecedented failure of responsibility. Today he rectifies and changes his story. It was predictable. You, in your despair, are already very predictable. And I can now announce that they'll make a key election campaign budgets, promising everything they haven't done or are going to do. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Feijóo, you come here to suggest that Galicia is the model. You try to supplant Galicia, but Galicia represents much more than its government. Greek citizenship is a model that fills us with pride, but its government, no. You sell stability, but it's the stability of decay, the stability of inaction, the stability of agony. A stability that doesn't lead to nowhere, that doesn't jump through Galicia and that you've realized today in a set of low-profile and unstrategic promises. We, Mr. Feijóo, want a Galician future, from a referenced approach to democratic socialism, we want a European Galician, a Green Galician, a feminist Galician, a Galician project in which freedom and social justice are the reference values for jumping through a better country; a Galician that also defends historical memory and today welcomes the fact that the rest of the dictator's rest are going to emerge from a space conceived for his exaltation. [[Applause]] We share with you your defense of constitutionalism, but we forwardly reject the strategy of your party to embrace yourself to the right. It would be interesting if you took your next turn, Mr Feijóo, to clarify whether you will continue to praise and applaud the pacts of your party with Vox, a xenophobic political force, macho, which attacks freedoms and rejects the state of autonomy. We're very interested to know what your defense of Galician self-government is. And we're also interested in knowing if you're willing to wake up and maintain your party's agreements with that party that boycotted the concentrations of condemnation against male violence in recent days. Will you begin to refuse the agreements with Vox, Mr. Feijóo? Because even Macron warned that the European right-hand centre - you talk about centrality - can't go out too far anywhere. He claimed today what you call "the centrality in politics." Is it the People's Party that deals with Vox as an example of that centrality and moderation? You were pointing out today that in Spain there is a problem of democratic health and that institutions have been perverted by electoral convening processes. When one speaks of perversion and a lack of democratic health in Spain, citizenship thinks of the former Government, of endemic corruption that the People's Party institutionalized and sentenced. The corruption of the People's Party was the most damaging to democratic health in Spain, the most perverting the institutions, and of course it calls to me the attention that you went out to defend Esperanza Aguirre and Cristina Cifuentes with the presumption of innocence but accused in cases of corruption. When you say you put Galicia above the interests of the PP, you put the People's Party above the interests of Galicia. Galleges and Greeks, we propose a new country project for a new decade; a country project for a progressive, dynamic and future Galicia. We represent a real, serene and calm alternative to which you can drive a change of government that benefits most. Citizenship can be quiet because we know how to govern — we do it in three of the four deputies, in five of the seven cities and in more than one hundred municipalities; 55% of the Greeks now have socialist mayors or mayors. We defeated the right in Spain, and Spain was the best; Galicia will also be the best if the Greeks decide to give political change and most alternative, and we want to do it with respect, without triumphalism, but with the conviction that change is necessary in Galicia. It's been a long time, Mr. Feijóo. In front of your inaction, you have to develop a model that strengthens five large reference axes. It's key to Galicia's future. And on that line we're going to work all the time that's left of this legislation. First of all, through an axis that has to do with the whole planning of progressive Galicia that we want on the question of the model of economic policy, on the question of the model of development. We believe in the importance of economic policy. Economic policy is a fundamental issue in order to be able to jump through a country. Economic policy has been something that its government has lacked during this stage. That is precisely why, because we need new economic policy, we need a change of direction, with new industrial policies, with new technological policies; also, Mr Feijóo, with a government which, according to the Statute, has full competence in the field of industrial policy. And you face the serious industrial crises in this country. You, Mr. Feijóo, have made serious mistakes. He said there would be no kind of Alcoa investor in the Coruña. He said it in the media, it's published, we can show it here if you want to see it. The Government of Spain has worked to achieve a solution that guarantees in two years a formula of employment and a maintenance of activity. Of course there are risks and everything we need to cooperate to save the industrial sector and the Galician crisis is counting on us, we have Galicia above any party or support interest. On that line, Mr Feijóo, we have to tell you that at the same time you have to correct your inaction in industrial policy, your failure in R & D+i policy, which places us at point 190 of the European regions, while northern Portugal is at point 100. From 238, we're in the queue truck, and that's also due to political inaction. Mr. Feijóo, along with an axis of new economic policy, we must also bet on a very relevant axis of vertebration...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u40	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u41	...territory of the country. His government has not connected with the dynamism of Galicia's most urban. His government was unable to promote Galician dynamism that had to be able to mark a new time in politics and that had abandoned the rural environment. There's a territorial imbalance over the lack of connection between the policies made from the Galician Union and the policies to be made from the municipalities of the big cities and from the small municipalities of the country. A third axis of reference, Mr Feijóo, which is fundamental to the country, is Galicia for equality; Galicia for equality between people and equality between women and men. An equality that guarantees social justice; that's our DNA. The defense of public education, the defense of health, the defense of dependence, that's a DNA we want for Galicia of the future and also for equality between men and women. His secretary-general, the secretary-general of the PPdeG, pointed out that there was nothing more macho than the March feminist demonstrations. You have failed, you have failed... the statements here if you want... I read them textually. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I won't waste my time, they want to throw me away, don't worry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u42	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u43	In equality, Mr Feijóo, in all his commitment to the fight against violence, the Greek socialists will work far beyond the government. We have doubts and we want things to do better, we think more budgets are needed, more commitments. [[Murmurs.]] We also believe that your dialogue with the power of ultra-right Vox depicts the importance of that problem, but in the struggle against masculine violence, we will be, in question of country, alongside all those who want to fight against it. [[Applause]] Mr. Feijóo, we also need a fourth axis that has to do with a green Galicia, which has to do with sustainable development, which has to do with climate change, which has to do with the country's future, and on that line you have a lot to do, because it's true that we're now told about climate change and ecological transition strategy. We're late, we're bad and we're trailing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u44	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u45	We have to get on the bridge to boost all the country's planning that we can get to a Galicia with renewable energy sources and with greater push. One last point of reference — and I conclude, Mr President — refers to the important approach to politics and citizenship. An axis of Galicia in the 1920s must be the importance of politics, regeneration and citizenship. We are autonomists, we believe in the State of Autonomy and we understand that it is a form of federalism that needs to be developed, but we are also aware that Galicia has lost weight in politics...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u46	Thank you, Mr. Knight, you have another shift later. Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u47	I'm done. Can I have a minute?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u48	No, look at the clock, we're too long gone. Thank you very much. [[Murmurs.]] Ten minutes! Please! You can't say it wasn't flexible here today. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This morning, at the beginning of the plenary session, the occasion was given to us, we had the opportunity, thanks to the fact that there was a new Member who promised or sworn - in this case promised - the place, to remember exactly what we are being asked. The question is, "Do you swear or promise to abide by and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of Galicia?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh I always present this promise, this oath, where the key is in the word "fidelity." Each one does as he can, each one does as he believes, but the truth is, all we promise is to defend Galicia's interests, defend the Constitution and the Statute and do it faithfully; that is, with loyalty. There's a phrase attributed to an Italian politician -- you don't know very well if Andreotti said it or Fanfani said it -- which is that in Spanish politics "lacks fine." There was a lack, let's say, willingness to compromise. I think one of the major problems of current Spanish politics is that, as a result of this lack of commitment, what is lacking is also more loyalty, just what we promise to work on in this House. Loyalty, of course, consists in believing in something that has permanent faces and acting in harmony with that. And it has many dimensions: we must be loyal, for example, to the truth, we must be loyal to the institutions and, as otherwise, we must be loyal to the people who choose us. Let's be loyal to the truth. I know that the concept of truth is a difficult concept. I'm not talking about metaphysical truths, nor about revealed truths, that these are religious ones, I'm not talking about esoteric truths, like those of Caribbean connections or those of the lobbys they command at the Union, I'm not talking about absolute truths, like there's nothing outside the nation. I'm talking about the truths most peculiar to scientific reasoning, rational thinking, which is the one where we believe we must walk towards truth, that we must approach it, but always with an attitude of modesty, of scepticism, of openness, of experts and also of facts, of data. You can set an example. It's also common that phrase that says that the difference between an optimist and a pessimist is that the optimist sees the mid-full glass and the pessimist sees the middle empty glass. And it's hard to talk because there's a fact, and there's a glass and there's water. You can see it half full or half empty, but here's the problem that it's hard to talk to who sees the broken glass, because that's something else, and that's what the opposition came to bring to this debate. Obviously, "Galicia, black decade", "Galicia is crushed", "politics that crush the population". Of course, we think this doesn't correspond to reality. The reality is different. The reality is that, as the Banco de España said yesterday, we are in a situation of economic downturn, and fortunately not - as it has also been said - close to a crisis, we hope that we will continue this way. There will be an extension of the expansion phase thanks to the monetary policy of the European Central Bank, the favourable financial situation of families and businesses, and a forecast of the recovery of exports as the European Union itself is recovering. Even so, growth forecasts have been lowered throughout Spain and there is a slowdown from which Galicia, of course, is not alien. The interesting thing is to see why this slowdown is taking place. And the Bank of Spain says that there are two reasons: the trade war and the potential wild exit of the United Kingdom of the European Union, and it refers to a third cause, which are the internal causes, which are those where we can of course be closer to finding a solution. In particular, the Bank of Spain says that the future orientation of economic policies and the adoption of measures to raise the resistance capacity of the Spanish economy to a deterioration is in doubt by internal uncertainties; that is, by the absence of government. Indeed, instability is already generating effects not only on the Greek economy, but on the whole Spanish economy. BBV Research said it's going to cost us between 0.2 or 0.3 of GDP, no less than 150,000 to 200,000 jobs. Obviously, uncertainty leads to delays in investment and this also leads to a delay in recruitment. In Spain the indefinite recruitment, which in 2018 grew by 19%, is now falling by 18%. The first month of a fall in indefinite recruitment was February, and, of course, many people thought it was because of the minimum interprofessional wage and the rise which, through social decree, approved the current government in functions. There's a memorable phrase from the Secretary of State for Social Security. I'm not going into that controversy, I just want to refer to what he said: I don't know how to say that the government doesn't see any impact of the SMI on the fall of indefinite recruitment, which doesn't mean there's no impact. That's why it's all said very clearly. Well, the fact is that we are in the fourth electoral process in four years -- by the way, this House has held this debate on four occasions, and in addition to an investment debate since the last time the Congress of Deputies held a debate on the state of the nation, which gives a good idea of stability too, which means not only to the Government but to the opposition, which has occasion to contrast its ideas with those responsible for most -- and in elections which, of course, have a responsible, which is Mr Sanchez. I had the opportunity to make a coalition, well with Citizens, as I had done in the past, well with those who led him to pass the motion of censure, but obviously there were no elections. He says it's because of everyone, and when I say "of all" I refer to what he said: it's the voter's fault, that they have to speak more clearly; it's the blame of the PP and the middle-right parties for not voting a program that he's going to Podemos to get the support of the priority partner; it's Podemos' fault, that he doesn't accept enough seats or he wants more positions in the Government and even... he said we could... "Come up late and he won't listen to me, but he was talking about what Mr. Sánchez said." And it turns out now that it's also Mrs. Pontón's fault, or rather the Galego Nationalist Block, because Mrs. Cancela had the right to tell us in a radio interview this weekend that was the memory of the Bipartite -- that of what we couldn't talk about here -- and the existence of two governments that did Mr. Sánchez didn't accept, in order to sleep, a government with Mr. Churches. [[Applause]] The only culprit here at the moment is Mr. Villares, who, indeed, as he is with Errejón - and today he has noticed the errejonist tone, which he thanks in the House - because, of course, he can say that he is not guilty. [[Applause]] Well, the fact is that we have an electoral repetition, and what's wrong with this, thinking about institutions, is that there are surveys that say that 90% of the Spanish population is angry or disappointed and that 54% of the Spanish population thinks less of the quality of democracy in Spain. And the CIS says that these kinds of decisions not only affect the economy but also the political situation, which is detected more polarization -- which is bad news -- and that, of course, politicians grow as problems. These elections are encouraging populism and, if not, they look at the 500,000 signatures at just a few moments in relation to the salaries of Members and Senators who were dissolved yesterday. All this stuff has a lot to do with -- and I'm going back to where I started -- with a little respect for the truth. We must be a little loyal. It's not worth saying everything's wrong. It can't be that the decade was bad and that all the Greeks who voted for the People's Party on three occasions are wrong, because then you yourself realize that, at best, you're circulating in the opposite direction of most, but not because most people go in the wrong direction. At entry, in Galicia there is a stability that is allowing positive results -- I'm going to be very brief because I don't want to overwhelm them with data and I'm sure the president will defend much better than me the management of the Government -- but the truth is that in 2018 Galicia has reached the most historic convergence with Spain in gross domestic product per capita, 90%, we exceed 90%. Since 2000 we have converged 12 points and 8 points with Europe. Indeed, we do not converge with Europe during the crisis as a result of the crisis, but we have also been converging with Europe for some years since the recovery period began. This is fruit, among other things, of a fundamental transformation of the structure of the economy of Galicia: there are more people and there are more value added and generated in the primary sector, in the industry and in the service sector, and it has fallen significantly what the bubble formed, which is the real estate sector. Unemployment is in Galicia at 11.3; in Spain, at 14, almost three points of difference, and remember that when we arrived in the Government the rate of job destruction in Galicia... sorry, unemployment grew by 44%, when now it falls by 15%, and occupation dropped by 3.8% when now it grows by 2.4%. Of course, it's hard not to see anything positive in these figures. Obviously, the indefinite employment last year in Galicia grew by 4.9; the average of Spain, by 2.6; and the rate of bias at work, which in Galicia is 13.5 and which would have to look for lower, in Spain by 14.6. And of equality you say Galicia is worse than ever, according to Gini's index and according to the indices that measure the technically equal that all economists use. He's exactly as he was when we took the government, despite the crisis. That's not the case with Spain. Spain has significantly worsened in income levels. Spain has just reached the same level of per capita family income it had before the crisis. From the Spanish ensemble six autonomous communities have overcome it and eleven have not yet surpassed that level of household income per capita prior to the crisis. For the INE's living conditions survey tells us that Galicia is one of these communities and that, in addition, it's the community in which the most family income has grown available over the last decade. Well, I think this is a positive fact that makes us see the glass, of course, not torn apart. And besides, the same survey says it's the fourth community where there's less difficulty to arrive at the end of the month. You're the only one who sees them are problems all over the world, and you certainly have to help people who can't get to the end of the month, but what you can't say is that we're worse than Spain or of course worse than we were in the moments before we took the Government. Never spent so much on social policies. The European Commission has just qualified Galicia as a reference region in innovative practices for active ageing. In health care we spend 10% more than in 2009, there's 20% more surgical activity, less days of waiting both for surgery and consultation, there's electronic revenue, there's work in hospitals. A new primary care plan was launched in 2019. Anyway... In education, what do you want me to tell them? To me the fact that I think it's more significant is what has been published this year of PISA and the Areces Foundation, that we are a system that, in fairness, means, in measuring results based on income, is where we are better, where the income and social extraction of a person less affects their educational results. That means we're above the level of Finland, Canada or Norway, and that's equal opportunities. That's the essence of equal opportunities: that one can be educated and educated regardless of their economic potential. [[Applause]] This summer was the most work in history in educational centers in recent years, as a result of the economic surplus. And finally, it could continue with rural issues, such as the implementation of the plan that was drawn up in this House and where there was high consensus to fight fires; the improvements in fishing - when you governed fishing quotas have dropped by 55%, since this government is governing it has risen by 90% - with which Galicia is the second largest community producing renewable energies, which we are already above the target of consumption, which is in the European Union, by 2030, by 27, we are already in 38 and we hope to reach 45 by 2020. What about the tourism data, which show that for the first time it begins to deseasonate and that we are beating records of both visits and incomes for producers, for tourism entrepreneurs? And even the demographic balance. Last year the population balance in Galicia was positive for 26,000 people. The Plan Returns made 6,700 Greeks back last year, of which 80% are under 65 years of age. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the conclusions that the opposition has about the black conclusion are not very fair, the truth is, they are quite exaggerated, and that with these exaggerations they neither dignify politics, nor have you, nor acquire credibility, nor, of course, win the future. The second point I want to touch is institutional loyalty. It's consistent with the federal states like ours, and that means that each power has to respect in a negative sense the exercise of the other's competences, and in a positive sense it has to collaborate so that each one can properly exercise his or her competences. That's what the principle of institutional loyalty means. It is a concept that is developed by the Constitutional Court -- the same that it has done in Germany the German Constitutional Court -- obviously is part of our constitutionality bloc and is also incorporated into laws, the Law of the Public Sector Legal Regime of 2015, and the others that I will now mention because they are financial and therefore most relevant. Institutional loyalty is to respect, for example, what the Statute of Self-Government says in Article 15.1, which says that the President is the ordinary representative of the State in Galicia, and that, therefore, when a minister comes, a representative of the State Administration in Galicia, in official work, he has to warn the President of the Union so that he can coordinate his work and simply work properly. And it also means that, when the committee that has justice with the board asks for court squares -- and they always give -- that they also have to give, not how it happened in Lugo. [[Murmurs.]] Or when you're asked to be able to train more doctors, because you work together so that there are doctors and there's no shortage of doctors. The president gave a rather extensive relationship this morning. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] But where the principle of institutional loyalty charges all its power is on the financial side. In the financial part both the Organic Law of Financing of Autonomous Communities and the Budget Stability Act define what it is. For example, when a government acts it must assess the impact of its actions on the rest of the public administrations, consider whether the exercise of these powers takes into account all public interests involved, it must provide information to the rest of the administrations and, in addition, provide cooperation in its own area. And we've reached the issue of 700 million euros. The 700 million euros, Mr. Caballero, are 330 of the deliveries to the account, 200 of the liquidations of a monthly VAT of two years and 180 million, which are the incentives that approved and prospective budgets provide for communities fulfilling as Galicia in 2017 and 2018. And Galicia on this subject was extremely loyal from an institutional point of view, complying with the deficit rules of both Mr Zapatero's governments and Mr Rajoy's and Mr Sánchez's governments. Well, it turns out that here we approve, with the abstention of the PSOE, the request to the Government of the State for the delivery of these amounts, and the answer the Ministry gives to the Government is that it is impossible to surrender to the account because the Government is in function, that the 200 million EVI is not in function either, because it is also in function, that incentives are authoritative and that the Government is also in function. That's the answer, in short, that gives the Government. It turns out in the deliveries to the account, that there was a report that said they couldn't give to a government in functions, it was a government in functions that had a candidate, because as soon as he stopped being a candidate, and he didn't need anyone's vote to get out invested President of the Government immediately found the system that facilitated the deliveries to the account. It was impossible when there was no investment, and now we know that there is no investment, and the government is still in function. IVE's got his own one. In August 2018 the president of the board went to see the minister of Fairy, and the headlines are like this: "Facence commits itself with Feijóo to reinstate the 198 million VAT". We're talking about August 2018 and we're discussing late September 2019. It turns out by means of this commitment, that in his report on budgetary stability objectives, debt and the cost rule that Airef makes, we will find out that the Government tells you that it will improve its position in meeting the deficit because it will not pay to any autonomous community 200 million - in this case Galicia, and the other correspondents - that corresponded to VVI and that the minister has committed himself a year ago to settle. And if we go to the incentives, I'd like to make a little history here. Where do those amounts come from? Why are they forgiving us some part of a debt? Debt comes from the negative liquidations of the years 2008 and 2009. In 2009, as soon as this government arrived, to win the election the People's Party, the system of autonomous financing was reformed by an agreement between the Socialist Government and the Catalan nationalists. The Government did not like the system of self-financing because since, in fact, it is showing itself with the passage of time, if it was good the figures that Galicia was getting in origin, the dynamic evolution of the system was not good because it rewarded the population, and Galicia - as we all know - does not have the demographic dynamism that the southern communities have. Consequently, the People's Party in the Government wanted to vote against it, but it found the following blackmail from the Socialist Government: if you don't sign the system, you have to return the amounts next year. This means that in 2010 we would have to return 600 million euros and in 2011, 1,600 - that year, in the middle of the crisis -. I mean, some money a socialist government gives to another two-party socialist government in Galicia, that this socialist government spends more than its own possibilities and is presented as blackmail to the government that just arrived from: either signatures or you return them next year. And for signature, they let us return them to five years. What did Mariano Rajoy's Government do? - because we're returning them year by year, by the way, calculating as a debt, that every time they say we have a lot of debt, they should remember that this calculate as a debt in Galicia -- yes, sir. [[Murmurs.]] Well, Mariano Rajoy said goodbye to ten years first and twenty years later, with which, Galicia, instead of having 200 million euros less income - which could be replaced by debt, from there comes indebtedness - it happened to have nothing more than 80. And the year 2016, precisely because it was helping other communities that didn't meet, as compensation that amount was forgiven to the Government of Galicia. This year, curiously, there are those figures in the budgets for the year 2017-2018, and again a socialist government, which is what left us the amounts to duty, which are the ones that are now in question, says it doesn't return them to us. Ladies and gentlemen, if I have explained it well, anyone can understand what to say when the Board claims incentives because fulfilling the deficit is a beggarly order, what it is doing is an indecency, because it also represents the Socialist Government, who has left us that money to be owed. [[Applause]] Gentlemen, what was your attitude toward this whole thing? First he said it was a theater to confront the socialist government, in August he denied that he had done it to Junta, in September he had already said, even that the councillor of Fairy had to stop, because he said that if these amounts were not released, there would have to be cuts. At the same time, the socialist president of Valencia said that there would be cuts and a fool went up with the Compromis - who told him that, with cuts, nothing - that he had to run there to the minister and tell him that he was going to give him the money through the extra FLA. Then you said that we didn't need the money, that we had to rule, that there was money left over. What, let me tell you, as a colleague, that is a bad understanding of what the budgetary procedure is. I mean, if one suddenly lacks 500 million in the budget and wants to spend those 500 million, it has a problem both from the budgetary point of view and from the point of view of compliance with all the spending rules. And once the state lawyer said it wasn't possible -- when, mysteriously now, if it's possible to do only a part of the liquidation, sorry, of the deliveries to the account -- it turns out that what tricked everyone was Feijóo, who was the only one who said that the deliveries could be made to the account. [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Knight, a good Greek as a pine tree, both with the heart and with the reason, I'm sure which side would be on this: I'd be on the side of the Greek Government. And, Mr. Caballero, a good economist, as are the Greek economists, would also be on the side of the Greek Government. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And since you had to quote me, I'm going to give you advice in return: when it comes to self-financing issues, I advise you to listen more to your spokesperson, Mr. Leicega, than to the government delegate in Galicia. And besides, I advise you to listen to your spokesman as much as the president listens to me. [[Applause]] [[Laughter]] The problem with this is not only financial insufficiency in Galicia, the problem is that with this, what are we generating? We are, first of all, generating a serious breakdown in the democratic process. The democratic process is: I pay taxes and in return I get some services. Here the Greeks have already paid the taxes, and when you want to lend the service it turns out they don't have any money. It is far more serious at the bottom than it seems, from an institutional point of view. And secondly, this problem is also shaking populism against the system. You, who wants to rule with the other forces of progress, read what the Block has presented these days about self-financing to solve the problem of deliveries to the account, which implies the disappearance of the State estate, because what they propose is a generalized coupon system for all autonomous communities? Do you agree with that? Do you agree that the breach of the current law gives them wings to fly to those who want to carry the Spanish farm, which is fundamental to Galicia, its farm and the redistribution of the system in Spain? Well, I'd like you to respond to this, if you have time, in your second intervention. Thirdly, we must be loyal to the country. To be loyal to the country is to have everyone do their job. The opposition must oppose it. As the Committee of Venice says, the Venice Commission - which is important - the basic idea is that the opposition must be exercised constructively. The opposition has rights and also has an obligation, which is to be constructive. I don't know if today's interventions are much adjusted to this, but we're not going to go into it. The opposition, what are you doing? Are you doing a loyal and constructive opposition? Well, here, for example, Sergas health areas were set up when the merger was made, and it turns out that during the same period the socialist Valencian Government was restructuring the health map of that community from 24 to 6 areas. Today we hear here that we are a Robin Hood backwards because it turns out we lowered the property tax to the rich. Do you know that property tax is paid in Galicia? Exactly what's in the budgets of the community of Aragon, where they rule, and here it says we're the opposite of Robin Hood; exactly the same property tax. [[Applause]] How many things we had to hear here because we tried to dynamize the industry and the company in the municipalities with the Town Councils of Entrepreneurs, and that that was bad for the parents. Interestingly, the Extremadura law of the year 2019 establishes the distinctive "streme entrepreneur municipality", which is considered to be a priority for the evaluation of the competitive competition processes of the Extremadura Board. Well, here's what we had to hear! And we see that in Extremadura, on the other hand, they almost copy our law. And when the People's Group registered that bill, we were told that reducing terms and guarantees were things like what we heard today, that it was ruling for the rich, and so on. Well, you see, in Valencia, where you rule the same ones that are in the group of the spokesperson for the Left Joint Group, they passed a law in 2018 which reduces to half when it affects investment projects managed by investment accelerators, the projects in administrative process. And they're talking about windshields. Do you know that you approved the Government of Aragon -- where are you also --? For it has approved that investments of self-interest in renewable energy "...are reduced to half in its processes linked to the implementation and development of these projects." I mean, what you do here is, as they say, "police," "predation," "support friends," but, when they do, then the thing is different. This leads us to the conclusion that the opposition does what it does is to stand against the PP, do what it does. The synthesis of the opposition is that it doesn't matter what it is, but the only thing that matters is that the PP says it, it's okay or it's wrong. Its criterion is not taken into account by the background of the measure, by its effects, by its nature, by itself simply what the People's Party says. I don't think they're contributing to credibility, or to dignifying politics. Credibility is not achieved when the People's Party's Natural Heritage Act is rejected because it deprotects natural parks, and when there is a problem in a natural park, and if you want to protect yourself by the administration of the People's Party, one side of those who don't protect the natural park. It's not very consistent that when there's an energy model that refuses because they say that we don't bet on renewables every time an wind park opens up, it goes up for any kind of motive, especially when the municipality is governed by the People's Party, logically. [[Murmurs.]] And let's not say if we talk about corruption. Mr. Knight, you speak of corruption today here... I, recalling that throughout Galicia the only mayor convicted of corruption is maintained by your group, or simply seeing the procedural news of today even of the two predecessors you had in charge, the two, if you were, would try to be a little more committed. [[Applause]] It is given today to me — for us — a happy circumstance, and it is today — as you know, September 25th — that is exactly the third anniversary of the last election victory of the People's Party in Galicia. Just three years ago the people of Galicia increased their confidence in us and gave us more votes than in the elections of 2012. We introduce ourselves with loyalty to an electoral program, and what are we doing? We are extending multilingualism, which already existed in primary and secondary education and in the cycles of children, undergraduates and vocational training. We wanted to open 30 nesting houses, they're already 61 and they're planned for 76. We were talking about zero taxes for young people, large families or people with disabilities who acquire a regular rural housing. It's already done. The historical helmet recovery strategy is already in place. We said we were going to adopt a series of measures for demography such as the Welcome Card, and to extend it to the three years of life of the baby in the case of risk, poverty and exclusion. It's done. We were talking about expanding the flat rate for self-employed up to one year, it is fulfilled, and even reformed as a result that the Government of Spain suppressed that enlargement. Our program also referred to laws that have already passed through the house, such as animal welfare, digital administration, pharmaceutical care or natural heritage. Other measures we compromise are: business accelerators, risk reform, specialist nursing facilities, interinstitutional coordination protocol for the care of victims of gender violence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u50	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u51	That there is no doubt, here the only pacts against gender-based violence are those of this House, which is no longer a deal with anyone else. [[Applause]] Today the president realized that all this is being done. Because, ladies and gentlemen, today, in the face of this opposition, which I believe is wrong and not loyal to the democratic system, by making this absolute criticism to everything that is moving, to everything that the People's Party has done in the last decade, the president has shown that there is indeed a country project and that there are 90 measures in the short and long term. We, of course, from the People's Parliamentary Group, will continue to work with loyalty, face the truth of the problems, seek realistic and centered solutions, conduct ourselves with institutional loyalty and loyally defend the Constitution and the Statute, and of course faithfully the people of Greece and all the commitments we have now made with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u52	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Time's up. It now contains a 15-minute suspension, if necessary by the president. Otherwise, we will continue the debate. Can we continue the debate? Well, then, no suspension. [[Assentment.]] Reply by the President of the Galician Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Many thanks to the spokesperson and spokespersons of the opposition parliamentary groups and many thanks to the spokesperson for the majority group of the House. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, illustrious gallery, Welsh and Welsh. There's a common denominator on the part of spokespersons about what they've been saying for days, not even weeks, but years that the People's Party project in Galicia is exhausted. Don't believe it, ladies and gentlemen, spokesmen who start in this session, which is the first time I've heard it. I've been here for ten years and there's not even a Journal of Sessions that doesn't carry it out repeatedly and repeatedly. Allow me to quote with respect and thanks the following ladies and gentlemen: Pachi Vázquez, Guillerme Vázquez, Carlos Aymerich, Ana Pontón —first time—, Xoaquín Fernández Leicega—first time—, Abel Losada, Ánxel Vence, Francisco Jorquera, Xoese Manuel Biras, Yolanda Díaz, Xosé Luís Méndez Romeu, Antonio Sánchez—first time—, Patricia Vilan, Carmen Iglesias, Chelo Martínez, Luís Villares, Xoquín Fernández Leicega —second time—, Ana Pontón —second time—, Manuel Lago, Gonzalo Caballero and Antonio Sánchez—second time. Do you really think the Government is exhausted or are all those who were representatives of the opposition really exhausted? [[Applause]] Do you think, ladies and gentlemen, this whole illustrious plant of distinguished Members and Members, with whom I was lucky to be able to debate about the exhaustion of the People's Party project, which this party is exhausted, or, on the contrary...? It's an honor for me to remember every chance I've had directly or indirectly to debate with these political leaders of the last decade in Galicia. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, you will understand that, on this matter, nothing new under the sun. I want to thank Mr. Villares for his intervention. This is the first time I've said it. I suppose, Mr. Villares, I won't hurt you for saying so. I want to thank you, Mr. Villares, for what I thought was a respectful intervention, with respect to what I have always tried to deal with, and that seems to me to be a substantial improvement in your institutional and parliamentary position. You said, "I want you to be scared, as if the house was on fire." You mean a very capable woman who talks about climate change -- you have to make this matter clear. But, Your Honor, on climate change, we proposed different things, for example, to approve the Climate Pact, for example, to invite all mayors who have not yet joined the Climate Mayors' Pact, or, for example, the commitment to approve the Strategy of the circular economy. Your Honor, you say I went ahead with the debate to make it coincide with the general elections. You may understand that I don't have a very direct relationship with the President of the Government in office, Mr. Sánchez; you had it until weeks ago. Therefore, saying that I knew what was going to happen was something more surprising. But when would it be like your lords that we should have this debate? What is the proposal and the appropriate date for this debate? When will political instability end in the Central Government? Can anyone say when political instability will end in the central government? Is that not going to spoil the debate? Wouldn't it wait to see what's going on in Madrid to have the debate about the state of autonomy and not worry about what's going on here? Wouldn't it be surprising, Your Honor, that in a debate about the state of Galicia, we don't talk about the rest of the autonomous communities that make up the autonomous state? Does it bother anyone here who talks about the situation of Spanish politics and its direct impact on the Greek economy? Is that just because no one here can raise the voice on the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, BNG gentlemen, or left-wing lords in Common? Look, Your Honor, you speak, Mr. Villares, of the male violence. Our spokesperson has just said it quite clearly. All the pacts that have been signed in the House, from the first law, the first plan, and all the last one, have the majority of the majority group of the House, the People's Party of Galicia. That's why we're going to keep all the pacts on male violence. [[Applause]] Mr. Villares, in that program of what you've been talking about -- I think it's 313D, the degree of execution of 313D -- you know the transfer of the central government to equality policies, and you know that that transfer was made at the end of the year. So you require me not to run a game that will be transferred to Galicia at the end of the year. Your Honor, because if we were to run that game that was transferred a few weeks earlier, we would be prevaricating. So I'm surprised that you come here without knowing that, for example, the Equality budget was executed at 66% in 2018 or that this year's execution forecast is 95%. Mr. Villares, I think you're wrong about that. There was no cut in equality, on the contrary, there was a substantial increase in equality shares. When we arrived at Union level, the match of equality was 13 million euros. Despite the recession, despite the crisis and the weak cows, today the match of Equality is 23 million euros. [[Applause]] Mr. Villares, you should know that there have never been so many women on social security like now, ever. I know that the Socialist Party does not care about employment data, because there must of course be many tables in order to be able to hear the Socialist Party talk about economic policy and employment policy without being blamed; economic policy and employment policy in this forum and speaking for the Greeks. Look, Your Honor, I can assure you we made a great effort. Of course there are many things left to be done, but when a president of the board solemnly says that there have never been so many women going to social security like he's now valuing the work of so many women and companies who, despite the recession, have achieved the highest proportion of female employment membership in our history. Mr. Villares, you don't like us making residences with foundation initiatives that have their headquarters in Galicia, even criticisms, and asking what money we had planned for the residences. Today we are considering twelve measures in the field of demography, sweet! What does it look like, for example, to be the first autonomous community in which we are going to maintain the freeness of children's schools for all families in the second child? Don't you think of a proposal that's worth putting on value? That's what allows, Your Honor, to cross-check the accounts that we had devoted to senior-age residences for demographic policies, child policies and family policies. [[Applause]] You pose zero emission; that's very good. Europe proposed zero emissions for the year 2050. You pose the zero issue I don't know if for the next month or the next month or the next. But look, when he says, do you guys do what they did to try to make the thermal power stations in Galicia survive? For in the previous legislation with another government, for example, we managed to commit Endesa to invest more than 200 million euros to match the emissions of the thermal power plant in Endesa with the requirements of the European Union. And Endesa was strictly fulfilling that investment. We were able to have the largest thermal power plant in the northwest according to the strictest demands of the European Union, and in this came Mr Sánchez and ordered him to stop, stop the investments, stop Endesa, stop the trucks, stop the job, and get into a situation in the unknown bridges. That's why, Mr. Villares, you have to decide whether you stand next to the People's Party Government or the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. We're next to the Greeks and the Greeks, all the families who work at the Bridges. After getting an investment of more than 200 million euros, it is not to be expected that the Government of Spain will come to close the bridges simply because it is unable to negotiate with anyone in Europe or in the industrial and energy policy of our country. Mr. Villares, there's nothing wrong with ever agreeing with the Galician People's Party, they won't open any files for you; on the contrary, within your political biography you should really choose which chapters it is worth stressing. That's why I'm surprised, Your Honor, that you've imposed on this government nothing but the problems of emissions. I said this morning that since 2017 we have met the European Union's forecast for renewable energy production. Those are our policies. In 2017, with fifteen years in advance, we met the renewable energy policies and, however, you — and the spokesperson of the parliamentary group — every time there is a problem in an wind farm. It is true that Mr Sánchez — Anton, I am sorry, Mr Anton Sánchez, for agreeing with the name, but I understand that I am referring to Mr Anton Sánchez in the Chamber. That's why, Mr. Villares, I think you should correct that. Just as I think you should rectify the eucalyptus and the proposals you are charging us with in forest matters. Mr. Villares, we have to make a new forest plan and we have to listen to the sector. I think it's worth listening to the sector. The forest surface in acres in Galicia is 2 million hectares; 300,000 devote themselves to eucalyptus, 15% of the total; and the leafy, 415,000, are 21% of the total. But don't discuss official data! [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] If you want to go to the Ministry of Agriculture and tell you that you're in conflict with Mr. Feijóo, tell him, but this is the official data. So when we're talking about this, we should talk about it with a minimum of credibility and a minimum of reasonableness. Look, Your Honor, when you talk about the environment, you have to be consistent, and unfortunately, we've seen it behind the banner, along with the Socialist Party, asking that Ons Island not be a World Heritage Site. Now, let him come here dressed in green nothing more and nothing less, like other opposition spokesmen, is, at least, surprising. If it's been weeks, Your Honor! If we've seen all these opposition environmentalists for weeks against preserving the island of Ons, the Cyes and other Atlantic islands to achieve the World Heritage Site of the entire archipelago of the Atlantic Islands. And now they come to talk about environment, rigor and zero emissions! [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, with all due respect, I think that's unreasonable, and I'm telling you without any accuracy, I can assure you. [[Applause]] Mr. Villares, you didn't have time to see the public transport plan of the autonomous community, you didn't see it, because if you didn't, you couldn't say we'd make transportation worse. Because what we just did in the public transport contest was to disrupt transport between 10% and 25%. Couldn't say we've narrowed the routes, when it turns out that the number of kilometers offered is 11 million more than the previous transport plan. That's why we're surprised at this approach. Just like we're surprised to say that 30,000 farm farms are abandoned. That's a mantra that's also part of the debate in the state of Autonomy. How is it possible for us to abandon agricultural holdings and have a record of agricultural production? How is it possible that all agricultural holdings are being closed and that we will never produce as much milk and as much meat and we will get as much preserve and as much fish as we do now? It's amazing! Really, isn't it that they're taking the right dimension to be able to produce effectively, pricely, competitively and export? Really, didn't we think that would be reasonable? [[Applause]] I don't think so, ladies and gentlemen, that we should open that debate, even though I have no drawback to do so. [[Applause]] In any case, Mr. Villares, I again show you that I believe your intervention was a respectful intervention — of course, discrepant — and, of course, allow me to tell you again. You say we don't run the job budget either, like we don't run the equality budget or we don't run the housing budget. Don't you know that the statistics you bring to say that were the statistics that prepared your former comrades with what is now called the Left in Common? Don't you know, Your Honor, that these statistics, like you, besides, said as the leader of your former party continues and constantly, were false? [[Murmurs.]] Don't use them again! Leave this Left Group in Common — which I don't know what they have in common — to talk about those statistics, which are simply badly constructed. [[Laughter]] Mr. Villares, I've told you since your cordiality. Don't say here that employment programs are not running, when employment programs are not only running, they are increasing. Because the autonomous communities that run under a profile have no more active employment policies, and yet the communities that we run the most we receive more money from the central government -- yes, until the Socialist Party arrived. So when you tell me we're not running, I tell you that 85% of the current credit was executed on the 2018 budget -- 85% -- and 15% is extended to the 2019 budget. When a company doesn't believe in the execution of a grant, it can't be paid, Mr. Villares, because if we don't, we're going into administrative, accounting, financial and other responsibility. So I can't understand and I can't accept that you are confused and try to confuse citizenship about the execution of the budget on equality or housing. Look, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Villares, you've been about to get all the House groups to support him as president of the board. When I was leading the Power Tides, you were the spokesperson of the House's majority group. In a very short time this has changed. I want to assure you that it was not the responsibility of the majority parliamentary group. But this was the opposition proposal just a few months ago, I'd say a few weeks. The Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, the BNG and the Tides of Podemos wanted to form an alternative government to the People's Parliamentary Group chaired by you. See if this really would be solid after seeing what happened a few weeks ago with you and the rest of the groups! This was the proposal we had up to this debate of the state of Autonomy: an alternative government chaired by the illustrious Mr. Villares as President of the Government. Don't laugh! [[Laughter]] No, no, don't laugh... don't laugh, ladies! [[Laughter]] [[Laughter]] This was the proposal they had there, above the table, if the People's Party one day like this, three years ago, we didn't have the absolute majority to be able to rule and give stability to Galicia. [[Laughter]] Exactly this proposal, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, yes. [[Applause]] [[Laughter]] That's why, Mr. Villares... — and finished — I understand that there are carcasses from the Socialist Party, what happens is that this is what we have been living in the House for three years less than fifteen days. [[Laughter]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] These are the chronicles, not the criticisms. [[Murmurs.]] If I don't criticize anything! [[Murmurs.]] If after what we've seen, everything's possible! [[Murmurs.]] Everything is possible after what we have seen in this House, not in previous legislations — and I have cited 19 political leaders — but in this same legislation, which is still a quarter of a time to argue! [[Laughter]] Mrs. Pontón, there you and your way of making opposition; that's why I don't think it works for you. He probably didn't have the best day today. "No new project," you say. Of course, because nationalism is precisely the newest thing in the world. "Intranscension," he considers the Galician board projects to be transcendent; and what is transcendent to Galicia, fortunately, is the dimension of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Pontón. [[Laughter]] If Galicia is -- according to you -- a bonsai, do you think they would be in that bonsai? Exactly what dimension would they have in that goodness with which you depreciately qualify the country? What length would the Galician Nationalist Block have? The most childish Galicia is nationalism, Mrs. Pontón. Why? Because you don't think we're all Germans who aren't nationalists. He thinks that all Galicia is mostly wrong and that only you are right, and that's indeed old, Your Honor, that's indeed exclusive and that's what it's like to make Galicia a bonsai. [[Applause]] You said the People's Party represented the past. Home!, of course, the proposals you made today are absolutely new: an economic concert is the solution for the financing of Galicia. That's a novelty from the Galician Nationalist Block over the last forty years. An economic concert where there is not a single university professor who prays that he can put a signature after that proposal, which is simply harmful to the country. A novelty also for the BNG — which if you have a new project — is the Basque electric tariff, which does not exist and which would also be illegal, because you cannot break the electricity tariff in the national territory. In addition, in the case that we had a Greek tariff, it was a deficit of more than 300 million euros. I know how you're making your bills: you confuse your accounts with stories, but here we're talking about accounts. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Five big crisis projects. Mrs. Pontón, you're still talking about emigration, and it's all right. Come here and say 200,000 Greeks left. And he keeps saying yes, what else does he give? Since you're a nationalist, you can say what you want! What else? [[Laughter]] Invents the figures and gives exactly the same. Like when Galicia says it didn't converge with Spain or it didn't converge with Europe. Well, if you say so... Galicia is the autonomous community that has converged most with Spain in the last ten years. Galicia is the autonomous community that has less deviated from European convergence, the second in all Spain in recent years, and you come here saying that we do not converge with anyone! [[Murmurs.]] Look, Mrs Pontón, I should simply — to deal seriously with the issues of return and the subjects of migration — take the figures seriously and not come here to listen. Galicia's positive balance in the last year was 13,000 more people who came in than those who came out; that's the data from the National Institute of Statistics. The convergence of Galicia with the average of Spanish wealth between 2008 and 2018 rose by 9.4%, followed by Extremadura, with 9.2%, of the Basque Country, with 9% - the growth of GDP per capita -. We are the first autonomous community in Spain in ten years. That is the summary of the economic policy of the People's Party of Galicia. After Extremadura, we are the autonomous community with better evolution in European convergence, the best. [[Applause]] That's why it doesn't matter exactly how serious it is to say what each person wants, to start making up statistics. In the last ten years in Galicia more than 30,000 people have entered, despite the recession and the economic crisis. That's why, Mrs. Pontón, I don't think it's reasonable what you're charging us with because, simply, it's not true, and you're taking all the legislation with this mantra to see if you can fool someone. Do you know that the year 2007 was the year that most young people left Galicia between 16 and 34 years of age? You were there, nothing said. And the migration balance accumulated since 2009 was: they left Galicia 297,000 people and came to Galicia 337,000; that is, there is a positive balance of 40,000 more people -- those who came out of -- These are the data from the National Institute of Statistics. That's why I find it particularly serious that in a debate like this, where we should at least use official figures, you come here saying that we do not converge with Spain, that we do not converge with European economies, that we have lost 200,000 Greeks in recent years, etc. In the field of electrointensives is the first time BNG is unable to defend the use of electrointensive industries in Galicia for not disturbing the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, the first time. Yes, Mrs. Pontón, the first time. [[Murmurs.]] You say our politics is very old-fashioned and we've been here a long time. When I arrived in this House as an adviser, without being a Member, you were already a Member. See if you've been here longer than I have been, though I've only been when the Greeks voted to me every time we ask them the meaning of their vote. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] We need to talk about the workers without disturbing the Socialist Party. It's BNG's new creed. You can't talk about Bridges, you can't talk about Meirama, you can't talk about all of this because this would bother the partners. Yeah, yeah, we have to talk about Isowat and we have to talk about Poligal, that's what it is. But, of course, talking about Ence, talking about Reganosa, talking about Meirama, talking about Bridges, not that, it's not going to be that we bother partners or that we just want to close companies that give more than 20,000 jobs. [[Murmurs.]] Madam, as you might say, as one of the Bipartite's highest advocates, what is a disaster dependency policy when the Bipartite had a budget of more than €10,500 million and paid 14,000 dependents every month, and we have a budget of less than €10,000 million and we pay 61,000 dependents every month? How can you talk about dependency here without blushing? [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, I'm not here to support any extreme approach to ideologies, I've never done it; I'd never go on an electoral list and on a paper with Bildu and the Republican Left of Catalonia. I would never do that. [[Applause]] Today, Your Honor, who is holding the debate in Barcelona about the state of Catalan Autonomy, the President of the Generalitat said that the alleged Catalan Republican Left terrorists were committed citizens. You see how that is understood by the extreme ideologies in the country. So when you talk to me about extremes and extreme ideologies, I suppose you won't, without a doubt, refer to your partners in the European elections. To say that the forestry policy of the People's Party is a pyroman policy is a pyroman expression, Mrs. Pontón. I propose that you withdraw it from the Journal of Sessions, because we do not deserve it. You don't deserve the 6,000 people who have been working this month for a government that you consider to be a pyromanic government. And besides, coming from the BNG and talking about results in forest fires, it's again a lack of data and history. Mrs Pontón, how is it possible for you to criticize with your hand the merger of the boxes and with another hand that the boxes could be brought up to auction so that any Spanish, European or world financial entity could be presented? How is that possible? But if you were in agreement with the merger of the boxes! If then there were no BNG country plans! Even if the Galician People's Party had proposed it, it didn't mean that the proposal itself had been born addicted. On the contrary, the BNG did so and voted in favour of the merger of the boxes, of course, against the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. There's always the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Whenever it comes to talking about Galicia, there's always the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party defending Galicia. What a joke! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Tell you that someone bought the boxes. Yes, they took the auction. Was there any financial entity from some autonomous community that had survived Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero's financial policy? Was there any box in Spain that had endured the work of the governor of the Banco de España? [[Murmurs.]] Was there anything to teach from the Socialist Party about banking restructuring in Spain? But this is amazing! We fought against the Socialist Party, which simply wanted all financial institutions in Galicia to disappear. They wanted the 5,000 people working in Abanca to disappear, as other Greek banks, for example. And we put ourselves in and we got, first, injected to clean up the boxes, the same way it was injected to clean up the Catalan boxes or the Madrid boxes or the Andalusian boxes. That's why it's surprising that Castile-Leon, Castile-La Mancha and Valencia have lost every chance of having in their autonomous community a seat of a financial entity. Don't come here to charge me with this fact. I'm very proud of what we've done for the 5,000 Abanca workers and to keep the headquarters in Galicia. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, you made a very nice slogan: "less Madrid and more Galicia." I agree absolutely. It is true that the exact slogan by the BNG would be "Nothing in Madrid and little in Galicia." [[Murmurs.]] That's exactly the slogan you should defend. [[Laughter]] But the truth is, of the proposals that you make, do you want to make one so that the debt of the external port of Coruña has the same treatment as the debt of the port of Valencia? [[Applause]] We agree. Do you want to talk about funding? We agree. You want to speak of nothing but a presentation for the recognition of the Galician nation; that is, of a presentation that leads us to a referendum on the Greek nation. What do you think if we hold a referendum in twelve months and the Greeks are going to vote on the BNG or the People's Party proposals from Galicia, and we consider that referendum that we have made in the last forty years as a clairvoyant to say that Galicia is a part of Spain? Don't you think that's the clearest, most diaphragm and more democratic referendum? Do you really like British Brexit? [[Applause]] Your model is Catalan Brexit? Not ours. Let's let the Greeks speak in the referendum we're going to call and celebrate in a year. That's the good referendum, no trap or card. That's why, Your Honor, you make a few proposals: to comply with the Gender Violence Act. One hundred percent agree. That the Law of Linguistic Standardization be fulfilled. One hundred percent agree. Wait till you know the statistics on the use of Greek, which, apparently, will come out in the next few days, see if you're also 100 percent agree. It would be good if, when data is bad, you criticize them and, if data is not bad, you support them. That is a pact that seems quite reasonable to me. But, in any case, Mrs. Pontón, there are things you said you don't think we deserve -- I'm not going to describe them, you just described the "Pyromanic Party" -- because that's not fair, and you know it. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to finish because the issues that Mr Sánchez, Antón Sánchez, has raised here a list of all the conflicts, of all the platforms, which I suppose will be half of Podemos, others will be of the BNG, others will be of the Joint Group, others will be of the Socialist Party... you started talking about Fridays, you start to criticize them. I said, it's probably starting to criticize social Fridays. No, it's other Fridays, black Fridays. On the black Fridays of Spanish Television do you mean? No, that's not worth criticizing. No, not that. In any case, Mr Sánchez, to talk about conflicts, you don't need to leave Parliament or leave your group, I honestly tell you. [[Murmurs.]] They speak in the name of most Galicians when they don't even know what their group is called, who have just been baptized. Until a week ago in the House we couldn't say the spokesman of the Joint Group as spokesperson for En Marea, because it was you, and now it turns out that you are no longer In Marea, I am the Joint Left Group, which, of course, Members with prestige and information call "We can." Well, finally, I'm going to call us what you want to be called: Joint Left Group. He said this morning, making a play of words, that I could not distinguish between last and last. I know perfectly well how to distinguish between the last and the last: this is the last debate of this legislation. Do we agree, Mr. Sánchez? [[Laughter]] The last debate about the state of autonomy of this legislation. At the next plenary session I can assure you that I will be here debating in the control session. Can you make sure you're going to be your group's spokesman in the next round, Mr. Sánchez? [[Applause]] Mr. Sánchez, the Oribio saw. But don't you know that Oribio Park has been authorized since 2007 by the Bipartite? You don't know that you're authorized anything but by a progressive government -- a progressive government that has put 12 generators and that we want to decrease from 12 to 8? [[Murmurs.]] And that's bad. You have to be 12, you can't go down to 8. Landscape pollution is higher at 8 than at 12. That's the proposal from the Left in common; that is, the more aero-gearers, the better and, if we want to get aero-gearers, that's worse. It's amazing! All the positive reports and now it turns out that a company wants to reduce the number of airlines we have to oppose. Won't it be, Your Honor, that it bothers some that the tax, the first tax in Spain, the wind canon tax, depending on the number of air carriers, and now it turns out they're going to tax less? Is that it? But don't you know that we're bringing this tribute, not in a hurry, but in an environmental rush? The companies that you say are evil are in agreement with you, they don't want to pay the cannon, and we, Your Honor, want them to pay the cannon. That's right, if you decrease the number of mills, then they'll pay less, but they'll pay. That's why we're surprised that you took this matter from Oribio's wind farm as if it were really the paradigm of your environmental proposal. Look, as far as housing is concerned, you're following up on the housing business. I suppose they did exactly the same play as the previous spokesman: that there are no houses, that we are not building houses. For we have 3,500 public housing rentals available at this time; we have in construction and we are building 214 homes; the young people have support for rent and acquisition; we have been the autonomous community with more measures to stop the defiance and we prevent 1,700 families from being homeless. We have lowered taxes — zero taxes — to 90% of Galician territory, when you buy a housing, to people with economic difficulties, to young people or to large families. We have 55,000 families who have received help to rehabilitate their homes and we count on the largest public offer of land to build housing, 5,200 homes. And it turns out we don't have housing policy? 86,000 families have benefited from current Government housing policies. That's why we're surprised, Mr. Sánchez, that you come here to talk about housing policy. Then you made an incursion into Venezuela. This reminds me of that shirt we saw in the Chamber: "Chávez, I swear, we shall vote for Maduro." How am I gonna leave it? [[Murmurs.]] That was historic, Mr. Díaz. That was a statement of intentions -- finally sincere -- of your group. So, about Venezuela, if you want to teach, I have no drawback. I decided to protect the 5,000 jobs from the Greek boxes, you're on Venezuelan affairs. Look, I have only two commitments in Venezuela: firstly, with the whole of the Galician community and with the center of Galicia, with the brotherhood of Galician Caracas; and, secondly, with the democratic opposition to the chavista regime. [[Applause]] You are critical of us, Mr Sánchez, that we are unable to obtain a euro of foreign investment. And at the same time criticizes us for giving and selling Galicia to the vacuum funds, to the multinationals, to the lobbys... where are we left, Mr. Sánchez? Investing in Galicia is to facilitate the deployment of lobby and multinationals or do we not get foreign investment? They say vote exactly what their economic policy is. They don't have it. No, they don't. They have no economic policy, no. They don't exactly have it: not the thermals, not the wind farms, not the mining farms, not the gas plants. What is your economic policy based on energy policy? Exactly, what do they propose to keep electro-intensives working? Do you really think they're defending the Alcoa workers when the price of the megawatt was before Mr. Sánchez at 35 euros and now it's at 55? Really, this energy policy is the energy policy of Podemos and the Socialist Party, the energy policy of unemployment, the energy policy of shutting down thermal power stations like The Bridges, which will meet, if left, the CO2 emissions demanded by the European Union? Do you know that Spain is importing energy from Morocco, which produces thermal power plants? Do you know that Spain is importing the energy from Portugal, which is also produced with a large thermal power plant? Do you know that the Germans keep the thermal power stations? Why can't thermal power stations be kept at the same pace as European Union partners do? Why? [[Applause]] Why does Galicia always have to do with this destructive industrial policy of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party? That's where I agree with the BNG: if this thermal power plant was in the Basque Country, it wouldn't close. No, no; it wasn't closed. No, Your Honor, it wasn't closed. If the biggest thermal power station...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u54	Silence! You have to fit something... you have to be able to fit... [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u55	I insist, Your Honor, I've been used to, I've been here ten years, I've lived with Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero, Mr. Rajoy and Mr. Sánchez. I think I just tried to defend the interests of the Greeks with the three presidents, and believe me if I told them that a thermal power plant that was running more than 200 million euros, to match CO2 emissions to European legislation, no government would close it if it didn't accept that the Greeks have the same rights as the Basques or the Catalans. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Sánchez, I really believe there are a number of considerations that, if you think so, we are not going to bring them into the collation, because I don't think this is about politics. I will not miss him about it, among other things because I respect him, because we are in the Galician Parliament and because, moreover, it is not worth it. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Knight has left us two pearls for the hemerotheque today. They were really good, I can't deny it, I had to point them out because I didn't give credit. Your Honor, you are saying that the project is exhausted. "Friendly speech." Is good-bye also because you're going to follow the path of all your predecessors or really because you want to say good-bye when you've just arrived? "The project is exhausted." But is there really any project that is more exhausted than the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, which was not able to rule or form government? Really, Your Honor, do you want to come here with nothing but economic policy, employment policy? It's as if the BNG taught us about the unity of Spain. That's kind of the way it is, Mr. Knight. This is a pearl which, of course, you should go and change, because it's been a long time with this, though you've been working very little while. You say that Parliament is the cradle of Greek political life. In fact, there's no more to check your behavior. "There is no project or strategy," she said. The Strategic Plan 2010-2014, the Strategic Plan 2015-2020 and the Strategic Plan I presented this morning, 2020-2030, don't you think of a planned and strategic proposal? Is there any autonomous community that had made more strategic plans, not only that it had done them, but that it had monotorized them and that it had a constant and continuous follow-up of each of the indicators of that plan? [[Applause]] You also say that there is no agricultural production. That is another mantra of what you tell me, just like Mr Sánchez, and when we're going to make tons of meat, we see that we're going to increase; when we're going to realize tons of milk, we see that we're the eighth European power and we're going to increase; in wine, we've increased; in preserved, fishing, etc., we've increased. You say that the health budget has decreased; 4 billion euros. Is there any budget at any time that had EUR 4 billion in health care? You plant, Your Honor, that we have reduced the number of public health employees. Well, 2,300 employees more than in the previous legislation. But really, where did you get the statistics? An industrial sector. But really, Your Honor, can you talk about industry without being rude? Here comes the industrial production index. It turns out we've had record of industrial production index all these years until the Socialist Party arrived at the Central Government. We agreed this morning: the annual industrial production index rose by 7.2%. What happened? That energy has decreased by 123%. Why did you decrease your energy by 23%? Because Meirama is closed and because The Bridges have not worked in the last four, five months. So Mr. Sánchez's responsibility turns out to be Mr. Feijóo's responsibility. And you say he'll even help me. What will help me, will you really help me work for a proposal to the Central Government? You raise surprising questions: "The weight of industry in GDP does not rise by 16%." Well, in the Bipartite was 16.4, in 2009, and now it's 17.2, despite the economic recession. You're not talking about industrial sectors, which are destroying industrial sectors: 8,600 million billed in the automotive sector, 5,700 million -- 28% more than in 2009 -- in automotive exports; 23,000 jobs in the automotive sector, 2.50 jobs more than before. One in six cars manufactured in Spain is made in Vigo. We just got the two new PSA-Peugeot-Citroën vans a few years ago and now we have a new one: that PSA-Peugeot-Citroën will make for Toyota. And we got the V20, a Peugeot to Vigo unsub, who had never done anything. And it turns out we don't have industrial policy in the automobile? What is your industrial policy on the naval?, the tax lease?, this tax lease that brought the closure of all shipyards in Galicia and Spain? Look, in spite of Mr Almunia and the Socialist Government, we have the second shipping order portfolio after Holland throughout Europe: EUR 3,500 million in orders in the naval sector. And you're talking about industrial policies. Some people are laughing at going to Argentina. Maybe the Greeks who work there wouldn't laugh so much, maybe the six Galician companies that give 5,000 fishing jobs in Argentina wouldn't laugh so much, and maybe America's biggest lobster and pot barn wouldn't laugh so much, when there's more than 60 Greek fishing vessels in those waters. And it turns out, Your Honor, that they consider this to be a joke. [[Applause]] A joke! Look, ladies and gentlemen, about industrial policy and the Socialist Party, right now in Galicia there is a need for a political problem, which is not to distinguish the truth from the lie. That's a very important problem, without any doubt, that's why the second pearl that left us today's spokesman for the Socialist Party is that it works for the Greeks when there's a socialist government in Madrid. That's part, Your Honor, of your political speech this afternoon. If you think Galicia is doing well with this socialist government in Madrid, I assure you that Galicia will be ill when you want to talk about something serious that affects Galician families. Look, Your Honor, Alcoa. What are you going to do with Alcoa, you're going to fool her again? I said I wasn't glad about Alcoa La Coruña. How am I going to be glad of Alcoa La Coruña if they're not going to make primary aluminum, what were they telling the workers? Can you say in this House that Alcoa Coruña will produce primary aluminium again? Yes or no? Can you commit yourself in this House to keeping Alcoa La Coruña's jobs after the year 2002, yes or no? What do you think, as President of Galicia I have to shut up? Do I have to keep quiet to say that this is no proposal for the future for the Alcoa The Coruña workers? Now what are we going to do with Alcoa de Lugo? 1,600 families, 33% of Lugo's gross domestic product. And now what are we going to do, say that it is Mr. Feijóo's fault that Mr. Feijóo doesn't have an industrial policy and an energy policy and that you're willing to help. Helping what, sinking Alcoa? Look, Your Honor, this is very serious, and we mustn't play with it. If you have to face your government, do it. I can assure you it would be better for you politically. Maybe you don't get better from the point of view of your gallon in the party, but sometimes you have to decide between the Party and the country, and while you have to decide between the party and the country there's always a difference: we choose the country and you choose the party. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, I'm faced with the increase in public debt in Galicia by several spokesmen, including you, who say he's a professor of economics. I'm not discussing it, I'm sure he's an excellent teacher. But why don't you say that the autonomous community of Spain that has been less indebted in the last ten years is the Autonomous Community of Galicia? Why don't you say that the Autonomous Community of Galicia is the community that will soon pay to suppliers from all over Spain? Why do you want to reduce the merits that the families and the companies of Greece have achieved during the economic recession? Galicia is the autonomous community that has least increased its debt since 2009. Galician debt is 6.1 points below the average debt of Spain. Each Greek owes EUR 4,000 less than the average of the rest of the Spaniards in relation to the debts of its autonomous communities. Why isn't this said and we've seen here wrong, really, public debt matters? Look, Your Honor, when I arrived at the Government, the public debt in Galicia was above the average debt of the autonomous communities, and now, the public debt in Galicia is under the average debt of the autonomous communities. So they should agree on something like, for example, unemployment statistics, EPA statistics. It turns out they're coming to talk to us about the employment situation. But when I arrived in the Government they were destroyed in Galicia, in the last year of the Bipartite, 54,000 jobs - 54,000 jobs! - and more than 30,000 memberships to Social Security! And now it turns out that you come here to propose a policy of employment and a policy that we must copy, because it's a successful policy. Does success mean leaving Spain on the edge of the rescue? Is that the Socialist Party's economic policy? Really, that's the economic policy you're proposing to copy, that's the economic policy you feel proud of. That economic policy we're not buying from the Greeks. In August of this year we have 153,000 unemployed less than in August of 2009.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u56	Mr. Lake.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u57	As far as employment is concerned, Mr. Lago, membership of Social Security, in August of this year we have more than there was in August of 2009.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u58	No, no, no. Mr. Lago, you're not acting.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u59	Social Security membership. In August of 2019 we have more than there was in August of 2009. As for legislation, 68,000 more members of Social Security. Well, you're right, Mr. Lago, it's not 68,000, it's 68,356. [[Applause]] In 2008, and in previous years, the indefinite employment rate was lower than at present. In 2008, there were fewer women dating to Social Security than now, and the proportion of full-time workers in Galicia today is higher than in Spain: two out of three employees have indefinite and full-time contracts. And now we get into the trick of the occupied population. That's the statistics that interest you. In fact, in less than 35 years of age, we have less than 150,000 jobs, but in more than 35 we have more than 97,000 jobs. Won't this have to do with demographic developments? We have a lot less people under 35 than we were ten years ago. Why do you come here to talk about employment, unemployment, EPA and busy population without really serious about all the terms we want to pose? [[Applause]] Do you really think public health was better than now? You're talking about exports. They're concerned about exports, but they're not concerned that we've had five years of absolute record of exports throughout the Greek economy in the country's economic history. And this year we have two problems in exports: the energy problem and the problem of automotive, which has a great deal to do with the Diesel joke of the socialist government's industrial and energy policy. But don't worry, I'm convinced that, despite PSA-Peugeot-Citroën-Opel, we're going back to the last quarter. And if you don't close The Bridges, we'll be back in a percentage of industrial production, as far as energy is concerned, again reasonable, because our industrial production is 7 percent higher than last year's. All we need is energy. Let us not cheat, because if we cheat, this means that this debate is a devious debate. Here we came to speak for the Greeks, and the Greeks have the right to know exactly what's going on in their country. I, of course, will never shut up to explain what's going on in your country, because it's my country. You are talking about progress policies, how the new progressive policies should be implemented in the Member States. Allow me to implement the execution of the budget in the Socialist Party's deputies. Execution of the 2018 budget of the Crown Deputies: executed 37.8%; execution of the budget of the Lugo Deputies, executed 53.6%; of Pontevedra, 47.57%. Is this your budget execution policy? Is this your model? Well, you'll understand, Mr. Knight, that I don't think you're interested in talking about this. I+D+i. We are the second autonomous community that we increase the most investment in R & D+i, exceeding 570 million euros. The increase was 13.14%. We doubled the average of Spain. The average of Spain was 6.1 % and the average of the European Union was 3.8%. That's the R & D effort. The fact that we've been late in R & D can't help but value what we've been speeding up in recent years. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, he says the Government of the United States failed. I tell you to reassure me that I call this government a failure for whom these two laws of Mr. Sánchez have been a success. If you think Sánchez's laws have been a success, you'll understand that you think that the laws of stability, of centrality, are a failure. He says stability is an agony. No, stability is the foundation of democracies. Like it's an agony? Agony is the one we're living now. If you say you can't sleep because you couldn't rule with Podemos! But what a joke is this, when in this House it was believed that the only solution you have is to "de-governance" together. Could you sleep? Why do so many people get their hair so long? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Mr. Knight, if you haven't criticized the Ortega Foundation, it's obvious that the transcription of your demonstrations is called. I don't think the media are calling their demonstrations, but it doesn't matter. If you come here to value the 90 million euros of the Ortega Foundation prayer for the social policies of the Galician Union, welcome to the common sense. You'll understand that the rest of the groups don't agree with you, but that doesn't matter, because you can change your mind quickly, so that depends. But you say you must listen to the spokesperson for the People's Parliamentary Group. I suppose you heard it very clearly; therefore, we may agree. If we have to listen to the spokesperson for the People's Parliamentary Group, we can agree. I listened with great interest to Mr. Leicega. I am convinced that Mr. Leicea would never say in the House that the current Socialist Government in Madrid is a guarantee to Galicia. I'm convinced; it's more, I looked at him at the moment he said it and I won't describe his face over Mr. Leicega. Yes, yes... [[Applause]] About the 700 million euros, I think my group spokesperson correctly explained it to you. He says it's settled. I mean, they owe us 700. Do you promise they're studying a formula to pay 330 and that it's settled? And Mr. Knight comes here to say, "If it's settled, Mr. Feijóo, why do you do so much theater?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh But what kind of theater? But do you think we're going to give Mr. Sanchez 400 million euros? Aren't you going to agree with us that you pay what you owe? I mean, will the Government of Spain have 13 monthly value added tax and the autonomous communities have 11? But don't you realize that the President of the Valencian Generalitat or the President of the Whaling Government won't accept it even if you have to accept it by Ferraz discipline? But don't you realize that's a story? How can we say here that the 700 million euros are solved? If we were ruled, Your Honor, by this opposition carousel, there would be only a huge instability. Look, I saw this morning of Galicia and, consequently, of Spain. Why? Because I care about Spain. Because Spain also affects the Greeks. And why? Because we're Spain. The situation in Spain is also the state of autonomy, autonomy. And I, as I want Galicia, don't want Galicia to be in the same situation as Spain. And also, as I want Spain, I think Spain could copy the political model we have in Galicia. You criticise this debate in advance for two weeks. Are you aware that you are responsible for anticipating two elections in six months? You criticize the balance of this government. Are you aware that you are responsible for the balance of this government of Spain being two failed laws? You criticise the Galician board proposals we made for this year 2019 and those we made until 2030. Are you aware that they've been in opposition for ten years and that there's not only one German who can make a proposal for Galician parties that make up the opposition in Galicia? You speak, Your Honor, and you criticize the commitment of the Galician Union, and at the same time want Galicia to copy the instability of Spain. Look, Galicia has problems, of course, all families have problems; people also have problems, people have problems. The question is, if we didn't have stability, if we didn't work with responsibility, what would it be from Galicia? You propose to Galicia a government, a government that failed in Spain and that you yourself say you don't want Spain, and what we've been listening to during these weeks about the protests of the Socialist Party, as well as the qualifications that moved you to the Podemos Party, is something, gentlemen, that has been recorded in memory. Do you really want to take our hair so hard? They're ruling in all the Greek institutions where the People's Party didn't pull out an absolute majority, and now it turns out they say they can't rule in the government of the nation. You propose to Galicia a government with which you yourself say that "no one could sleep quietly." That's your proposal for government. I want to tell you that I don't have nationalism, populism or extremism, because I have a pact with Galicia. All I know is that there's still people in unemployment, and the only thing that wakes me up is, gentlemen, that we haven't done everything we'd like to do yet. And, of course, this government and I are smarter so Galicia can achieve its dreams, I can assure you. What I wouldn't let us sleep would be a quadripartite opposition if it turned into a four-fold government. That, of course, would not let most of Galicia sleep. And since most Galicia wants stability and centrality, we remain committed to the stability and centrality of Galicia, because Galicia is our family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u60	Thank you. Let's keep going. Replica from parliamentary groups. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr. Villares. The president didn't ask for a break either. So we're all going to play the same game. No, no, the president didn't ask for time, and here we won't give it either. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's all going on now. Go ahead. [[Murmurs.]] Man, we're all going to play the same game. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Villares, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u61	We have to finish now, the debate is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u62	No, no, but things are the way they are. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u63	Mr. President, you said you were committed to climate change. Then you can vote last morning on a proposal that we are going to present on the climate emergency declaration for our country. To spoil the debate for us is to come here to blame Spain for everything that happens. We insist, Galicia has self-government. They won't look much like us. You think it's enough because in ten years of government you haven't managed any transfer to our country - and you haven't always ruled socialists by putting obstacles at that level of competence you'd want to do - to the country. So, if you're satisfied with what's going on, it's not for me to blame the others for what he's not able to do. He said there's more women on social security. We have to look at that data. The incorporation of women into social security in the years you mean the incorporation of women into lower wages. And that means that the incorporation of women into the labour market, as you're defending, is that of precarious labor. We think that women have the same right as men to have equal well-paid jobs, and that, therefore, the wage mass as a result of the work they do must be equal to that of men, which is not happening and which has also increased in the differential during the time you rule. With the theme of residences -- this is the Journal of Sessions to say it, don't twist my words -- with the theme of the Ortega Foundation, I know that I wanted to put the whole opposition in the same place, but what I said was the following: to me it seems very good -- to us very well -- that you welcome the beneficence, it seems very good to us, but what we don't understand is that, if public resources are needed, for example, to build residences, in parallel you lower your taxes to the richest. The property tax that you dropped in the 2018 budgets for 2019 -- we managed them here less than nine months ago -- means a discount on the 6,000 people who have the most assets from Galicia of 12 million euros, recognized in their own budget memory. And don't tell me if it's in Aragon or if it's in one way or another. I don't care what's in Aragon like that! We don't care about anything that's in Aragon like that, for us, while there's needs to be met, it's necessary to apply fiscal justice above charity. Because the Ortega Foundation is, but it could not be, and then the residences were left unworked. And they could be done if there was a fair tax regime, and a fair tax regime means going to find the wealth where it is, and to the 6,000 richest people in Galicia don't give them the 12 million euros. [[Applause]] On the subject of wind, we bet on wind energy, but with earnestness. There is no need or need to pay attention to the natural heritage or property, which are in this case in the Iribio saw, which is what most has been spoken of, but there are others. You can do both: combine the environment and energy development and also respect people's rights. Then I'll ask you to make a correction, and I'm sure you'll make it delightful, which is in relation to the Ons and in relation to the National Park of the Atlantic Islands. You in the previous plenary session, for a strictly tactical reason surely, presented a non-law proposal asking that the declaration of humanity's heritage be made as a whole, not only from the Cyes. Well, we, despite having held a critical position, voted in favour of that proposal because we believe that both things are compatible: respect for the rights of the islands with the protection and declaration of the whole architectural complex as the heritage of humanity. So this time I'm sure you won't have any trouble doing that correction. With the theme of the eucalyptus, of course, they must have put all the eucalyptus on the side of the roads, because it's the only thing seen in our country. Look, there's a difference of almost 200,000 acres between the data I gave you and the data I gave you; then somewhere the difference will come. We have been looking at it now with the data from the Fire Commission itself which has been made in this Parliament and there are nearly 150,000 hectares of mixed mass that you do not count as eucalyptal and that we do. Apart from the experts themselves, in many cases 90% of this surface is in a eucalyptal. So, even though I have some pine in the middle, it's practically eucalyptal. From there comes the difference of nearly 200,000 acres. So for us, it's too much surface because of the reasons I said before, and it seems to us that it should lead to a change in forest policy in that sense. With the theme of execution, of course, I always have to think that there are some games that never run at all or anything else but yes, because if you go to memory -- and you look at the books directly issued by the Galician Board itself, by the relevant advisor -- see how there are some games that are executed correctly at 100 percent when the year is over and there are others -- that are almost always the same -- that have a lower performance index, and not always are due to transfers from other administrations, as is the case that you just told me. So, what we ask you to do is -- you're on your side, detecting this continuity in certain areas -- you're especially careful and you're going to keep the word of the speech with the word budget and you're going to run 100 percent. We also discriminated on the IPI issue. The industrial production index is going great, except in energy, but it's that energy, of course, is very important in our country and, therefore, it seems to us that it cannot be less important to the collapse that they pose in the IPI business states or industrial states like Isowat, that of Polygal, that of Alcoa, that of Ferroatlantic, or that of so many others, that they pose a real problem and that they are not invented. It's just not saying, if we discount it, it's no problem. Yeah, but you can't afford it, because it's a real problem for our country. So that's where we call for active policies in that regard. As I was interested in the climate defense that I made you and before I could not end up exposing our proposal for a Greek social agreement against climate change, I also call you to add. And the proposals we make are 7 -- to see if I'm lucky this time -- and they're the following. First of all - and I invite you to add to this, and if you do, we would be delighted to start a dialogue process with you, with the Government, also to work in this direction in terms of legislation and in which it comes, wherever we find ourselves, and if you do, to start a process of decarbonization of the country that involves the removal of coal as a source of energy, committing to generating 100 percent of electricity with renewable sources in the next decade - and we add, the row followed, that we need to take into account all the amount of industrial employment that currently depends on this sector and that will be destroyed. We asked him, we asked him, "What have you done so far? And I ask now: well, in what has been done so far little can be done, but yes to the future. So what we ask you to do is to take action, and we propose, for example, the development of a hub in the marine windmill in Ferrolterra, which was a way of relocating workers and reabsorbing jobs, that that region will be punished especially as a result of the closure of the bridges. Secondly, something that is much more transversal, if you want to: reconsideration and reduction of working time in the public sector and in businesses, generating hours available to meet the needs of family reconciliation. Of course, it's trying to work less to share more work, because we're walking towards that in the future. So it's good that these kind of debates are going on in the political chambers. We want to include it as a proposal too, or at least talk about it. Thirdly, a future investment and mobility program that reduces the dependence of the private car and is committed to the design of the car and the electric and hybrid bus. It would seem interesting if the Galician Union were also betting on an R & D+i by supporting the entire car sector in the Vigo metropolitan area, not only in the electric car, but also by promoting forms of collective electric transport, which so far is not being talked about and which would seem interesting to us. Just like - and we have a tax margin to do so - we find it interesting to have a new taxation based on the creation of new green taxes, but especially to promote and reward new initiatives. In addition, it gives an idea what allows the Public Sector Contracts Act: that every public purchase ends up dealing with the procurement under ecological parameters, the design of economic aid lines and regulations to develop productive activities related to bio-economics and the transformation of the construction sector - and there something you pointed to the subject of eco-bars, but we think that this can have a much wider reach - towards a model that promotes the deployment of new materials, the minimization of waste, energy efficiency or the efficient use of water. A few months ago - I mean a few months ago - there was the possibility of building a wooden building in Lugo, and yet the regulations did not allow it, although it was a building that could be pointered according to new constructive techniques, also environmentally friendly. Finally, investment in green R & D+i, with projects that develop advanced knowledge and allow for greater competitiveness through cleaner production processes. These are our proposals, which have a marked ecological character, but they also have a marked social character. In one way or another, this will mark the future of our country; therefore, we would like to see a great deal of agreement that transcends this legislation, so we call it "a social agreement of a Greek character on the environment and against climate change" that could sink into the work of future executives, whoever manages it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u64	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u65	I'm going to finish now, and I can't resist ending like this. It was asked earlier that you would have been a Councilman from Galicia with me as president. You had it very easy. I just had to vote for myself at that point. He didn't, he lost his chance, and who knows if he can do it in the future. [[Mr. Villares Naveira laughs.]] What if I tell you is one thing: if it depended on me at the moment, or it depended on, or it depended on the future, the formation of a progressive Greek government, I would in no way make voters and voters go back to the elections to repeat an electoral process when democracy spoke, and spoke clearly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u66	Thank you, Mr. Villares. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u67	Thank you very much. I started my speech -- it's about four hours ago — with words, which was expressing the concern we had after the debate; a concern about the future of Galicia, because we have a government without pulse, no impulse, because we have an exhausted government, which is leading this country to irrelevance and which also has no future project to offer Galicia. The only thing you have to offer us is a 2021 Jacob, and it has nothing else to say, with all the problems that still exist in Greek society today. You have nothing to tell the Isowat workers, you have nothing to tell the Alcoa workers, you have nothing to tell the people who are waiting for them to attend because they have the right to depend, you have nothing to tell the women of this country. It's the best symptom and the best portrait of your exhaustion, Mr. Feijóo, of your inability to come to a debate and really do something different. [[Applause]] And what we see is that, when the problems are marked, they get angry, when they tell you what's going on in this country, they revolve around the chair, and, yes, they couldn't miss personal disqualification in this episode. Because, of course, when you have no arguments, you have to go into personal disqualification. Of course, we don't know, we don't understand, we don't know the statistics. [[Applause]] Because, look, Galicia isn't a bonsai, it's you who's turning into a Galician bonsai, and it's turning into a Galician bonsai because it's advancing the demographic crisis, and because it's advancing an industrial crisis that's leaving us out of work. Do you know what is the most demanding job today in this country? The waitress or waitress. It's a picture of the industrial problem and a model that won't bring prosperity and the future. We have an environmental crisis, and a very serious problem like the fires, and what you're worried about is that I said the government makes a pyromantic policy. Well, of course he's doing a piromanic policy when he continues to defend the interests of Ence, when he doesn't change the forest model, when he doesn't really bet on prevention... and here everything is throwing balloons off, loading the municipalities with responsibilities -- on many occasions without resources to do so -- and of course not recognizing their mistakes. [[Applause]] Because, look, fires are a structural problem this country has; the difference is how a government faces that problem. There was a country that suffered a very serious fire strike and reacted, which put in place structural measures to put an end to that problem. And do you know what you first did when you arrived? Putting an end to all measures so there would be a change in this country. And then, when he saw the problem progress, he had to correct it. [[Applause]] What's the matter? That makes it late, badly and with no intensity. Mr Feijóo, of course, this country does not need to continue to grow on the surface of eucalyptus, what it needs to change precisely that model. And, look, you're bringing us an announcement of a forest plan in 2016, in 2017, in 2018. We're in 2019 and there's absolutely nothing, because your government is all a bluff, and, of course, what we can't go on in this situation. Model financing. Your big proposal is to criticize BNG's proposal. Sure, I could tell you that your economic advisor, De la Calle, right? This new economic guru also defends the economic concert, but that's not the question. [[Applause]] The question is, today we bring here a proposal, that Galicia cannot continue without an alternative. We say we defend a model and we want to defend it with data, because we are convinced and convinced of Galicia's ability and we don't want this country living of solidarity, we want it to live from the work of its people and we will generate enough resources to maintain our public services. [[Applause]] You're the only one who comes here is to criticize without making alternatives, and what this country needs are alternatives to transcendent issues, because it's leading us to political irrelevance. [[Applause]] He made a statement that, frankly, I think he should make you think about this precisely. He said in Euskadi the Central Government wouldn't close a thermal power plant like the Bridges, and I ask him if that doesn't tell him anything about his role as President of the Board. It is the greatest portrait of his inability to defend this country! [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] That's right, resort to the lie. I don't know where it came from that we didn't talk about the bridges. We are talking about the Bridges in this debate and we are also going to talk about the Bridges in the motions for resolutions, because we do not believe that the solution is to be closed and to leave a wasteland. You know it, but you'd rather manipulate it, because it's what you like most and what's best for you. [[Applause]] And you have to explain to the Greeks and to the Greeks what you have not done, because today the situation would be different if you had approved a proposal that was in this Parliament, which is what we have defended: that there is a reduction in the rates we pay, that is, the Greek electric tariff. And today he comes here saying that there can be no unequal rates. But this year we already have an unequal rate! The Greeks and the Greeks will pay for the state's most expensive light because of your responsibility, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] Tell us why it can be more expensive and can't be cheaper. Why a good that is a collective benefit has to be unique and exclusively to profit the big electricity and not for economic development in the country or for us to end energy poverty. Those are the measures that can move a country forward, not the comedy club where you want to convert this debate. He's angry because we're talking about convergence and whether or not this country converges. I'm going to tell you that I have Eurostat data, I don't know what data you handle. And here's a graph -- well, you have other things to answer, it's okay -- that tells us that in 2009 Galicia accounted for 92.3% of GDP on the European average; today we're 82% and you say this is convergence. The big argument is that we're closer to Spain, but what it doesn't tell people is that in Spain it dropped the percentage; then it's not because we've grown up, it's because others are worse. [[Applause]] That's the problem we have, because here we continue with low wages, with the second lowest pensions and with a very serious problem of emigration. [[Applause]] We have a demographic crisis, and you seem indifferent to the fact that 200,000 people in this country are marching in a decade, it seems indifferent to you! Do you know what would have happened if instead of leaving those people stayed in Galicia? Well, we wouldn't have the demographic problem today, and we'd be better. Because in the Spanish state the population has increased in recent times, and here continues to be worse and with shocking figures, which are portraying the political and economic failure of a country. Yours, but also the structural problems we still have in our country. So, Mr Feijóo, concentrate and start thinking that this country needs another type of policy. You can take advantage of the year you have left to do it, otherwise I am convinced that the Greeks and the Greeks will change policies by voting in 2020 something different. [[Applause]] And what I will not accept, Mr Feijóo, are ethical lessons. No, no, I won't take ethics lessons. I can tell you that where you'll never see me is on the yacht of a drug dealer walking through the Arousa creek, and where you'll never see me or my party is crocheting with the extreme right. [[Applause]] This is a very serious subject, of course, because it's not a question of any kind, it's an ethical question. And if you really are against that extreme right that is not just a machist, is that you're racist and old-fashioned, that's a matter of enough importance, if you're against it, for you to say it; or for you to break up with the People's Party because it's a matter of principles. And if you don't, you're equally responsible, because those pacts with the far right didn't decide them in Andalusia, they decided them in the direction of the party where you're a prominent member. So it's as responsible as the others, and it would be fine... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u68	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u69	...to clarify what their preferences are. [[Applause]] I'm also sorry that he comes here again to ridicule silent proposals for Galicia as it is to speak of our self-government. He's a Welshman who defends Castelao, and here comes to ridicule what he stands for Castelao: that Galicia is a nation! We see, Mr. Feijóo, as you respect Castile. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] The important thing, in any case, ladies and gentlemen, is that this country needs a change, that it needs a President or a President who really knows what the reality is, that he is willing to admit the mistakes and who knows how to deal with the challenges we have ahead. And in this country there are people who get very bad every day, and it's not just people who don't have a job, it's also people who have wages of misery, low pensions, girls and boys who can't be emancipated because the wages they have right now don't give them out of their house. And you don't give any hope to all those people. And I insist: it's time not to lose hope, because politics is the one that can change things, and we're here to give this country an alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u70	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u71	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Joint Left Group, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u73	Good afternoon again. We're going to resist less. By the way, my great-grandfather was called Pedro Sánchez, which we're going to do! [[Laughter]] Mr. Puy spoke of loyalty to the Constitution, a Constitution that you, in the government of the state and in the board of Galicia, have consistently violated the rights. They violated it with the right of everyone to have a decent home, with hundreds of thousands of evictions to save the banks. They have constantly violated it with tax reforms that have done everything contrary to what the Constitution says, who should give more is the one who has the most to compensate those who have less. She's been violated constantly in terms of her right to work. And they agreed, yes, the two alternate parties of the regime. The four elections in four years is not a problem of egos, it's the crisis of the regime that was designed for alternation, as at the I Restoration. These two did agree to modify the Constitution from day to day by article 135, and they did not swear allegiance to the Constitution; in 135 you swore allegiance to the banks above the rights of people. [[Applause]] Mr. Feijó, you should improvise something less, because when you improvise you really see your conception of democracy. When you referred to the platform story I quoted, you said: I don't know if I'm from the Mixed Group, the BNG, the Tide... I don't know who. This is their democratic conception. They are platforms of citizens and free citizens who come together to fight injustice, and on those platforms there are voters of the People's Party. [[Applause]] As voters of the People's Party there are in many of the... please don't make me quote Labordeta! [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u74	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u75	They are free citizens who manifest themselves when they try to invade them. By the way, they should deserve more respect than you just showed them because they're doing the work a decent public administration would have to do: protecting the environment, protecting their lives, protecting the heritage of this country. What you don't, but on the contrary, does citizenship; and you've missed it here, once again, about it. He's also taken the Venezuelan one out again. There's already a lot of it! Whenever you want, we're serious about Venezuela. He spoke of Venezuela's democratic opposition. They have a lot in common. [[Murmurs.]] A few photos of Guaidó with two drug traffickers were still coming out. "Chávez, I swear to you, I vote for Maduro," "I only know there was snow," many things in common. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] He spoke of the Oribio saw. Yes, the Oribio saw is the perfect example of how you used the Welsh Government to benefit your friends. And thanks to its totally fraudulent and spousal processing, they're going to implant a wind farm on the Natura Network, when Law 8/2009 and the Nature Network's Director Plan say that no wind farms can be implanted on the Natura Network. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Feijóo, it's implanted-- report it well! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please, let's do a recess and report it well, see if it's implanted or not. Let's hear it! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] At the Oribio saw you benefited people very close to the People's Party. At the Oribio saw there were people who asked for the documentation to know whether it was a substantial modification of the project, which was key to seeing whether there was public exposure or not, and Mr. Tahoces had eight months stored in a drawer that information. They used all the sources to benefit a particular and private interest, going over people's rights, our heritage and our environment. Take it easy! [[Murmurs.]] You're talking about the wind cannon. I never said anything against the wind cannon. On the contrary, what I want is that with a resource that is of everyone, like the wind, with the territory of the Greeks and the Greeks, and with the laws that are made in parliaments that should watch for the interest of all, of the 600 million euros that are billed annually here much more than the migales of the wind cannon. On the contrary, we want more to be left! We want it not to happen like in Bergantinos Cabana, in Mouriños Park, where 9 megawatts were installed and not a euro will be charged by the Bergantinos Cabana Town Hall. The same in Laxe, where they settle against the entire municipal corporation, which has nothing to say about their territory, and they won't charge a euro. That's what I want: windy yes, copper no. [[Applause]] You said what our economic policy was, because we said no to the thermals, not to the wind, not to the Reganosa... look, we don't want them to steal us, we don't want them to steal us! He said if he was in the Basque Country, they wouldn't get out. Mr. Feijó, once again, inform yourself better. There are no thermals in the Basque Country because they decided in 2014 to close the last thermals. There are no thermals in Madrid. Curiously, places where there's little development. In the Basque country the thermals were closed on the Basques' own will. There are also few wind farms in the Basque Country, very few. In the Basque Country, however, there is a lot of manufacturing technology, components, which generates added value, generates jobs and does not generate impacts. That's the big difference between your model and a development model that favors the society in which you develop. In the thermals? You've been irresponsible and you're being irresponsible with the thermals, playing the political circus. What happens in thermals is not something that goes isolated from the world. In a global context where there are the decarbonisation agreements in Europe; a context where thermals disappear is very predictable. And what a responsible government has to do is to have designed an alternative plan for economic diversification and reindustrialization of the comarcas so that it doesn't happen like in Meirama, which one day a power company decides to close, and the workers of the auxiliaries and the entire area stay at the stake. And you have nothing to do with that, nothing but proclaim and blame Pedro Sanchez. [[Applause]] He was talking about Alcoa. Another company, Inespal, privatized by that wonderful government of Mr Aznar in which the entire council of ministers has been charged. A robbery that received millionaire aid until 2013 in exchange for nothing; in exchange for decapitalizing the company and investing in Saudi Arabia, Iceland and abroad to leave the factory squilled. That's the People's Party model. The solution to the energy problem does not come, for example, with the laws of liberation of the electric sector that you have made, from which you have not ceased to grow the receipt of the light of all citizens. So the energy problem is not solved. What did the People's Party do when it had all the competences to solve the energy model and to establish a stable energy framework for industries and consumers? What did he do? You manipulate the data, interpret it in your own way. They're official data because they come out of the mouth of the president of Galicia, and they're immediately official data. But what you can't deny is that, if you go to the INE data, today there are 54,000 less busy than when you get to the government. And you say there's less busy because you've lost 40 percent of the boys under thirty-five. Well, that's a Feijóo reasoning! Our reason is that 40% of young people have been lost, among other things, because there are no job opportunities, so they're lost. [[Applause]] We must recognize you, Mr. Feijóo, your courage to talk about housing and to come here to say that there are 3,500 public dwellings in Galicia. Yes, yes, sir, 0.01% of Galician housing park, when in advanced European countries, where the right to housing is defended, always exceeds 10% because it's a mechanism for nobody to stay homeless, to regulate markets and avoid the heights that are happening now and that leave many people out of the right to housing. He's brave, because he's talking about protection housing and what they're building. There are 13,000 plaintiffs in the Galician Board of Appeal, 13,500 or 13,900.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u76	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u77	You started the construction in 2015 of 5 protective dwellings, in 2016 of 4, in 2017 of 5, in 2010 here were 2,900. These are official data, Mr. Feijóo, which show his great concern for people's rights while hundreds of Greeks and Greeks were expelled from their homes. That's why we say that you do work for very specific interests, because when decisions have to be made there is a contradiction of interest, and you have always taken advantage, in this case, of banks and empty funds, and in other cases, of other interests. That's why we need a government that works for people, that governs for people, to combat job insecurity, to ensure a decent housing for all and for all, to reform the model of self-financing, to have an industrial policy in the country that develops sectors with potential for added value here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u78	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u79	Increase budgetary resources for public services too, so that private health and private social services are no longer increased, where Florentine Pérez and Koplowitz are doing a lot...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u80	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u81	Thank you. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Caballero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Feijóo, I am not going to go into the question of the date on the debate, which you made so much reference, because our position is that the unilaterality with which the Government decided the date could have been shared, but it is not a fundamental issue two weeks ahead or behind. The country's problem is much deeper than the date of the Autonomy State Debate. You see, Mr. Feijóo, you have just made here a reading of all the voices that have passed during your mandates, your laws, by this Parliamentary House. You speak of 19 political leaders who were and are no longer there. You tell me about the past. You're with the rearviewer, you're talking about the past, Mr. Feijóo, nineteen references from the past. Do you know what the present is? The present, Mr. Feijóo, are the elections that took place in Galicia in 2019. That's the reality of the country you don't want to talk about, about the electoral defeats of the People's Party in the general elections, in the European elections and also - not in number of votes - in the municipal elections, which showed a different reality and social majority in the country. For the first time in the history of German autonomy the People's Party was not the first political force in the country, and that is because of you, Mr Feijóo, who is the president of the People's Party, who has a reflection in this House with 41 Members and Members of the majority group, which is the reflection of the photo taken in 2016 when they were ruling in Madrid. Do you remember Rajoy, the leader who had omnipotent powers to be for many years and decades? And where's Rajoy already? Time has changed radically from 2016 to 2019 and the image of real Galicia in which we live is an image that was shown on April 28 in the general elections. On 28 April, the Socialist Party -- it is true that for the first time in the history of German autonomy -- it was the most voted political force, with 524,000 votes, 80,000 votes more than the People's Party you run, than the People's Party that has the majority in this Parliamentary House. But what is most relevant is not only who was the first political force in the polls, but 55% of the Greeks and Greeks voted by progressive forces and only 44% voted by the forces that represent the right and the right. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the data is obvious, and they spoke to the Greeks and the Greeks to show a new social majority in the country. And as much as it weighs them, just in the elections where the level of participation was the highest that is remembered in many years in Galicia; that is, the more Greeks they were voting, the more a new social majority has been reflected, which leaves this absolute majority of the People's Party in the Chamber without connections and without contacts. This became evident later, because you presented a second round, in the municipal elections and in the European elections, and spoke again about the Greeks and the Greeks. They spoke in the European elections and lost, Mr Feijóo, lost in the European elections. It was 500,000 votes for the Socialist Party -507,690, to be exact - compared to 431,782 that received the People's Party. And they spoke in the municipalities, and it's true that the People's Party took 502,000 votes and the Socialist Party 493,000, but in the municipalities there were 200,000 votes more to the progressive forces than the forces on the right. The numbers are obvious. I get it... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u83	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u84	...that when they speak from the rostrum with a majority of 41 Members willing to applaud anything, they don't want to hear citizenship. [[Murmurs.]] You speak to me, Mr. Feijó...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u85	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u86	...of the nineteen voices that passed here for a decade, but they already spoke the Welsh and the Greek. They spoke in 2019 and told him that you led the People's Party and the right of Galicia to where you've never been, to lose your election, to lose most, to be in a minority position in a new social reality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u87	Quiet, Mr. Vega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u88	And when you ask me what is your choice between different ways, between the party and Galicia, our commitment is Galicia, but we're committed to a Galicia that you don't want to listen to. Our commitment to Galicia was the commitment that the majority of the Greeks and the Greeks voted against the People's Party: by the forces of progress, by making President of the Government Pedro Sánchez. You stayed in a minority here, in your territory, and you don't want to listen to the reality of the country. [[Applause]] Mr. Feijóo, you follow in an official speech which is not a real speech, and it also makes certain movements with figures and the kind of story that is a little tricky.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u89	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u90	And I say it with all due respect. A little cheat on data when you stretch and reflect and answer things that you don't say here. As when you answered me talking about agrarian data or told me about a matter of debt to which I didn't refer. But I can't because I don't have the uninterrupted time you have to be able to answer all the questions, and I mark my agenda and the themes I want to talk about, you won't tell me most of the People's Party, you're calm! [[Murmurs.]] I mean, is there less or more occupied population in Galicia now or in 2009? Are there more people working or less? Isn't it true that 54,000 have been busy less than ten years ago? And isn't it true that there are 650,000 busiest workers in the Spanish economy in the same period? That's the reality, that's the most obvious and most important data to move the push of an economy. The rest are short-term analyses, of combining trimesters that suit you or the evolution of the previous year. The decade in which you ruled is a decade that leaves Galicia with less work, with less busy population. And of course we can talk about many aspects! It also draws my attention to that demanding character that you now manifest, because when Rajoy and Montoro ruled, Feijóo, Chitton! That was the political tactic of the People's Party. Montoro caused the IVE problem in the public accounts, and Feijóo, chitón! Montoro didn't update the deliveries to the account, it clearly said it wasn't legal. And he made it, chitoon! The Government of the People's Party has not worked to make a statute for the electrointensive consumer companies, and Feijóo, Chitton! [[Murmurs.]] And you know more? [[Murmurs.]] When we were going to talk about investments in Galicia, I'm going to give you a figure of 4,325 million euros. They start counting one to one until they get there, and when they finish they say: frigates in Ferrol, those that the People's Party had hidden by the business of Minister Morenés, and Feijóo, Chiton! [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Feijóo, I already know that today they try to look very happy, but I remember the faces of April 28 and May 26 and don't worry that the Greeks and the Greeks will speak again. [[Murmurs.]] The second pearl you attributed to me, Mr. Feijóo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u91	Quiet. I don't repeat it again. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u92	...it's what she said that Galicia is doing well with a socialist government in Madrid. I mean, yes, and I mean it with total clarity. And you have to note that most of the Greeks you rule voted for the Socialist Government in April as well, not the People's Party Government. Of course, I stand for a socialist government! because Galicia's social priority, commitment to pensions and commitment to people is the most important commitment it has to make, in a country with lower pensions, with lower wages than in the state as a whole, and therefore where social priority is the most important for the Greeks and the Greeks. That's why I defend Galicia above all, but I think it's best for Galicia that they govern progressive forces and that there is a socialist government in Madrid. I don't have to choose between party and country, I defend the PSdEG and defend Galicia. You seem to be ashamed of your party, and you want to hide the party so you can say that you defend Galicia. You don't seem to want to defend Pablo Casado, who doesn't want to defend Toledo's Alvarez, even though he soon complies with all the instructions they give him. [[Applause]] Mr. Feijó, I want to tell you two more questions this time. You see, in politics, regeneration is a matter that we all know is very important. The policy requires accountability and regeneration. You've just turned Galician institutions into an instrument in the service of the People's Party. He's doing it with the Union in political terms and he's been doing it more intensively in these months. It is provided in cases such as the People's Valedora or the TGV. There was a serious problem in the people's Valedora institution. It took more than a year for her to resign despite the court ruling that she had concluded the illegal appointment of a niece of Fraga. Only the political pressure in the face of this corruption stain made him correct you, and he did well to correct and stop the Valator. Today, Mr. Feijóo, there are thousands of Welsh and Welsh people who are seeing us through the TVG, and we have to tell them that we want public media without manipulation and remote from political control, that we urgently need to comply with the law and appoint a new director or director with the agreement of the House and appoint a briefing board. It's all right, Mr. Feijóo, that you want to convert TVG to TeleMadrid de Esperanza Aguirre. We can't afford it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u93	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia needs to open the door to the future, it deserves a president who puts Galicia first, the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks, because, after decades of lost opportunities, we have to lay the foundations for a new stage...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u95	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u96	...that gives hope to young people and girls and that doesn't forget older people. We don't want to resign that Galicia continues to lose weight. I do not refuse that Galicia that will inherit my children is a Galicia with fewer opportunities, a Galicia that is dwindling and contracting, in which they cannot develop all their potentials.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u97	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u98	Galicia is our commitment, Galicia is our...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u99	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Knight. You have the floor for the Galician People's Parliamentary Group Mr. Puy Fraga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u101	Thank you very much. At this point in the debate, at least for some, and those who have been patient to follow it completely, there is clear one thing at least: that the opposition agrees with something. There's nothing else you agree on in one thing. The only coincidence is to deny the evidence of the PP government's achievements and to say that the country is fatal. With regard to last year, we have more opposition. I think that biologists call it mitosis, when a cell comes out two that say exactly the same thing; today we have the opportunity to see that this is also the case in parliamentary groups. But, of course, positive proposals beyond what is governments of change, governments of progress, we hear little. If there is any empty word, it is precisely that government of progress or, in general, the idea of government of change. Because progress we all want, what we are debating is how we progress, and unfortunately, all we have is a lot of contradictions. Being against is easy, agreeing to take down something is easy, building something is very difficult. We're seeing it in Spain: it was easy to overthrow the government of Mariano Rajoy, to make an alternative government among people who think so differently is very difficult. [[Applause]] When we hear here, after reaching an agreement with the Socialist Party, the criteria for reforming self-financing, and we hear that we want to ally for a government of progress with whom we want to make a coupon for all Spain and make the Spanish farm disappear, because one sees that building difficult. What do some of the public bank think? By the way, a public bank would require funding, and it never explains where it comes from. It's another myth that says, public bank, and where are the funds?, where do they come from, who puts them?, do you realize that budgets are putting the funds that a bank needs to operate, according to the bank's criteria? Electric fare losing money. Galicia exports at the end of the year more energy than it produces, but does not do the same throughout the year. We have a lot of clean energy, so we depend a lot on the weather, the weather. That's why we can't be out of a system that guarantees that when there's no wind or when there's no water, when there's dry water, the same energy as the producers and families in Galicia also comes in. And that, that system, to us, would waste, in relation to any other -- and here a committee was done in Parliament -- about 300 million euros a year. It proposes the coupon that makes us lose a thousand, an electric tariff that makes us lose 300. Of course, not all opposition groups agree with this, but joining an alternative to that is impossible. Just like the thermal power stations. The Socialist Party, at least some of its leaders, particularly those most involved in the territory, are defending an orderly transition to an disappearance of fossil energies. However, the other opposition groups are getting the medal of being the first to want to close the bridge power stations. In the middle of what we're doing? We're moving away from the European calendar; we're going to have to import more energy, with which the tariff would still be shot more; and we're also exporting jobs, because, as the president has explained very well, it comes into energy produced with Moroccan coal and Portugal in many ways. It is difficult to agree with those who, over recent times, voted against this chamber, for example, to support the security forces of the state, voted against the crackers, voted against the European construction, voted against the defense of the Constitution or voted against a fairly reasonable agreement that we have reached the Socialist Party and ourselves on self-financing. Having said this, having noticed this, that here is a negative and reactive coalition against and little proposal at all, I'd like to make some precision, or leave some questions in the air. Our party, in connection with gender-based violence and women's equality, I think it has very little doubt. We were the first to create a general secretariat of equality; we were the first to promote a law of equality; we supported the law of the Bipartite which provides for the comprehensive treatment of gender violence; we supported and promoted a law of equality of the LGTBI collective; of course, that we took part in the pact that we sent to Madrid for the pact against gender violence, that we achieved unanimously in this chamber; and in 2019, for example, full assistance from orphans, which is one of the recommendations of the pact that is not in Madrid and that we here unfortunately had to activate for the last events, fortunately it was already in progress. So, on this question, Mr. Villares, and with regard to what you said about feminism on 8 March, I would like you to have asked me one day as well. You're in favour of the participation of the feminist women in the feminist demonstrations of the PP, yes or no? Once you answer that question, we can agree on the March 8 demonstrations. [[Applause]] Mr. Sánchez, like Mr. Villares, complained that here we have an estate tax; lowered with regard to what we went up during the crisis, the same as there was in Spain before the crisis, and even said that they pay less in Aragon, what matters is what the rich who live in Galicia pay; that is, the same heritage, prefers Galician ones to pay more. One of the problems with wealth tax, which is elementary, is that rich people can change their homes. In Spain, there are many communities that have the estate tax abolished. And in Galicia, particularly, there's a country next to it, ruled on the left, that when the rich go there leave us tax-free for a good season; that's the unfair tax competition that's making us the left-wing government of Portugal to the autonomous neighbouring communities that we keep the estate tax. Therefore, I believe that maintaining the estate tax and that there are Greeks - who could look for their home elsewhere - who continue to pay the estate tax in Galicia, and who still above, after paying their taxes - including that of the estate, who could have saved it - make prayers for public residences of the old age, I think it's something commendable and that you have to take into account. [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, with some sort of reverse psychology, announced before this debate that Mr. Feijóo was going to give a rally. Then, in the debate, he said that Mr. Feijóo's problem was whether he wanted to go or not to Madrid. And in the end, what Mrs. Pontón did, in her first intervention, was to give us a rally to see if the Block, at last, the Greeks send him to Madrid. To me, what do you want me to say? It seems a bit contradictory, when the president made ninety specific proposals and announced two or three important things like that we are going to have an budget, which is not going to happen in all communities -- for example, Madrid has already given up -- and that we are developing the new strategic plan. You can say, of course, that it is the novelty of a public bank, which is an issue that has been abandoned throughout Europe for many years. You can say that the coupon, which is a topic that is already practically abandoned in all tax systems, even in confederals like helvetics. You might say you have to take the nation's train and get independent from Spain in the decisions and defense of the country; but then, when Brexit comes, you have to put pressure on it, and you'll tell me how we do it if we're not in the Kingdom of Spain. You can also do a last modern exercise, which is to come here to break the papers. This is an exercise of modernity and also a demonstration of tolerance, dialogue and deliberative democracy. Mr. Knight, after you hear this that there is a court in Madrid, you who are so fond of defending the Government of Madrid, are you still talking about a government of progressive forces? You'll have to deal with these people if you want to make that government. I'm telling you because you say you have to look forward, but the only thing you're talking about is back elections, and what do you want me to tell you? I'll tell you something because you know I have personal affection for you. I, like you, come from college, and we've also been dedicated to similar things, I've been more time than you in this area, which is politics, and I'm going to tell you one thing: we have to look forward. But in politics, and essentially if a militia member of the Socialist Party of Galicia, it's also good to have a rear-viewer to cover his back. It's advice I give you. that in politics it is also necessary to know how to look back. [[Applause]] You said two things, one is budget. The closest thing there is is fear or treatment. You or you take the fear that the government's budget will be reduced to Galicia, or the death that we've taken away our deliveries. Look at you, this very Galeguist to me, of course, does not seem to me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u102	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u103	I'm gonna steal you a minute, president. He said several times that the president and the People's Group don't claim with the same intensity as the Rajoy Government. That's a fallacy, it's a lie, and I'm going to give you data because the data is like this. [[Murmurs.]] Look, the House's record — listen carefully because you may be surprised to know this — says that in the twenty months of Rajoy's presidency of this legislation, this House, with most of it, approved eighty-eight impulse initiatives directed to the Central Government, among them, many proposed by you: from autonomic funding to studies for direct rail connection between Coruña and Ferrol, judges for reinforcement for violence and for ground clauses, the interterritorial compensation fund... you and we voted for it. Eighty-eight demands to the Government of Mariano Rajoy. What's happened since Sánchez ruled? Since he ruled Sánchez, out of the total of eighty-eight initiatives directed to Madrid...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u104	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u105	...in the 15 months of Sánchez's presidency, they passed seventy-one. I mean, exactly the same average, four and I peak a month. And if you go to the Chamber Registry...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u106	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u107	...—this is a very interesting subject—which is the Parliament's database—please listen!—we have approved the same demands on the Government of Mariano Rajoy as on the Government of Mr Sánchez. Which changes a lot...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u108	Don't interrupt, please. Silence! Finish now, please, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u109	...are the initiatives that register each group, and thanks to the record we can verify that in this legislation the Socialist Group has registered three hundred and eighty-three demands from the central government, of them three hundred and fifty to the Government of Mariano Rajoy and thirty-three to the Government of Pedro Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u110	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Your time is up. Thank you. Mr. Puy, your time is up. [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please! Time's up, Mr. Puy, time's up. [[Applause]] Last shift of today. Mr President-in-Office, you have the floor to close this debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u111	Mr. Villares, you and the BNG spoke of self-government. You know perfectly well that the only autonomous community of common regime that has maintained self-government in recent years was Galicia. All the others were intervened. You don't think so? Does it seem little to maintain the financial autonomy of an autonomous community when Catalonia, Valencia, Murcia, Andalusia and Castile-The Mancha were intervened and the only thing they could do was what the Ministry of State Farm said? Does it seem little to you to keep Galicia standing in full economic recession, when most autonomous communities have doubled and asked for State intervention? Mr. Villares, one day it will be recognized that during the autonomic recession there was a fully autonomous government. One day it will be recognized that, during the crisis and the weak cows, this government kept standing Galicia, kept the Statute of Self-Government in force and, keeping the Statute of Self-Government in force, we made the greatest effort for self-government in the history of the autonomous community. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, I don't think it's reasonable to say that the 90 million euros that's going to fund the whole, from construction to equipment of the seven residences, is beneficence. Do you think that's charity? So now it turns out that a multinational company in Galicia pays tribute to the social policy of the Greeks and it's charity? We would like every residence in Europe to look like the seven residences that will be built with the funds of the Amancio Ortega Foundation! We'd like that! We would like to have an economic capacity to make those residences with that level of finish, that level of execution and that level of equipment! Mr. Puy has already said, watch out for the themes of heritage, Mr. Villares! Just as people are free, they're free to live in their homes and live in another place. Therefore, what lower taxes was left-handed – Zapatero said – seems you didn't buy it. He's the one who eliminated the estate tax. When Mr. Zapatero eliminated the property tax, that was left-handed, and when we want to lower the estate tax, that's from the right tramontana. Mr. Villares, it would be good if you agreed to lower taxes is left-handed or not. For the Socialist Party, it depends, but you don't fall into the trap. If not, it has the open doors of the Socialist Party, you have no doubt. That's what you're looking for with Mr. Errejón, no doubt about it. They've always destroyed the left-wing parties from the Socialist Party. That's the memory. They destroyed the Communist Party, destroyed the United Left and now they want to destroy Podemos. Don't have any doubt, it's the permanent and constant history. That's why Mr Erregón will be, if possible, Minister of the Socialist Government. You don't fall into the trap and tell us clearly whether you will agree with this Socialist Party. From his intervention I drew that no, and I pointed it right. You said a very clear sentence, which, by the way, prides you as a Democrat. He said that if in the next elections the people of Galicia spoke clearly and forcefully, you would allow that government to continue ruling in the country after winning the elections. That's all a Democrat's pronouncement. I mean, if the Galician People's Party wins clearly and forcefully, we already have a parliamentary group that will not force other elections and will take up what the polls say in the Greek Parliament. [[Applause]] But I want to tell you, Mr. Villares, that I will not put you in this engagement. I'll work all I can to get the Galician People's Party to pull out most of the election in the following elections. Don't worry about it. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, I clearly correct what I said about Ons and his Joint Group. Indeed, the Joint Group voted in favour of the proposal of the Galician People's Party to maintain the heritage of humanity to the island of Ons, the Cyes Islands and the set of the Atlantic Islands. I request correction in the Journal of Sessions. It is true that I would swear that I saw him speaking against it, but that has nothing to do with it, one thing is vote and another thing is manifest itself. But it's okay. The important thing is that you agree that Ons is the heritage of humanity, and even if it is manifested, it now reveals the opposite and that's what it is worth. In the end, you are in favour of Ons being the heritage of mankind. He did well, the neighbors, too. When the neighbors stop being manipulated, the neighbors vote and manifest in consciousness what they want. Keep manipulating, gentlemen. They are still manipulating the Green Party, that party that is so concerned about CO2 emissions, and now it turns out that the same party believes that there can be no heritage of humanity in Galicia, or that the number of people entering the islands should be limited to preserve them, only to preserve them. [[Applause]] That you weren't able to make a management plan and uses of the Atlantic Islands Park, not... No, they couldn't. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They haven't been able, for four years, to make one plan. Your Honor, you have been unable. What they were able to do is say one thing and do the opposite, like give the environmental impact statement favorable for the Ence to stay in the creek. That's what they were capable of, and now they deny it, Mrs. Pontón. They do deny it. Who was Industry's advisor?: Galego Nationalist Block. So, those integrated environmental authorizations for Ence to stay in the creek, don't BNG know anything? It doesn't matter if we know it. On the execution of the budgets, Mr. Villares, if the Government of Spain transfers in the last quarter of the year a match to make equality policies, you will understand that this match must be built from a competitive and advertising point of view in order to execute it. And so if we don't count that match – which we couldn't execute it – the execution of the 2017 budget was 93% on equality; 2018, 94% on equality policies; and, this year, that we have already injected the departure of the state pact, we believe that we can reach approximately 95% on the year 2019. So we can be calm. I hope that we are able to comply and that you are calm about this matter. Look, I have no drawback in reaching agreements with the Joint Group, for nothing. I came to an agreement with BNG when BNG had no responsibilities in Madrid, it usually happens. I reached agreement with the Socialist Party when the People's Party ruled in Madrid; when ruling in Madrid the Socialist Party, it's impossible to reach agreements. Because to reach agreements with the Socialist Party when he rules in Madrid, we have to call Ferraz. And usually at night, when we finish the debate, Ferraz devotes himself to other things. Galicia is not important for the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, that's also history. You, who are still younger than me -- I'm not so much anymore -- will remember how the Socialist Party and Galicia were usually incompatible. The Socialist Party's strategies have never passed through Galicia. They were heading towards other places, towards the south, towards the Levante, towards Catalonia, Galicia was a smaller community. Yes, yes, a smaller community, from the beginning of time. It is true that there were socialist parties and people of the Socialist Party who said no, so go! Those who said yes, they're usually active politicians. Look, I repeat again: if there is any possibility of reaching an agreement, you say to make a wind farm in Navantia Ferrol. I agree, but doesn't it seem to you that, before you make a wind farm in Navantia Ferrol, the logic is to make a bridge boat while you don't start building the frigates? That would be reasonable. Look, we got in the previous legislation the largest windjackets project made in Spain. Now go on. It's the same company, which, when the PP ruled, helped Navantia windjackets, which now continues to affect windjackets in Fene, the same company! But the Socialist Party has already put on a sheet. So, what about the frigate plate? Now it turns out that Mr. Morenés, if there's anything to tell you about Mr. Morenés, tell him. Yes, yes, tell him, I take no responsibility. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, but what do you think? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They don't think we're fools. Why don't you say this in Congress of Deputies? Why didn't they say that at the Congress of Deputies? You know why? Because in 2018 they left 250 million euros without spending to make the frigates in Ferrol. Because in 2019 they again leave 250 million euros without spending to make the frigates in Ferrol. Because they lied to all the people in Ferrol and they won't start the frigates either in 2020, or in 2021, and people go to the street in Ferrol. That's the truth about the frigates and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Let's make a bridge boat so we can get the Ferrol shipyards to work. [[Applause]] Look, ladies. Mrs. Pontón, I made a very clear proposal to you, correct you and don't call us pyronos. And you not only haven't rectified, but you've told us again that this government, its politics, is a pyromanian policy. I didn't want to remind you, but I'm used to it. I remember perfectly well, during the 2006 fire strike, how that free TVG you were driving did nothing more and nothing less than television programs to say that those who were planting the fires in 2006 were the mayors of the PP. That's why I really understand what you're saying here again that this party is a pyromanic party. We don't deserve it, Mrs. Pontón, we don't deserve it! And I can't accept him as president of the People's Party and president of the Galician Union. It's in the cameras on the Galician TV. You're lying, Your Honor! [[Applause]] You're lying! Tell you we don't have a project. That, of course, I leave here the ninety proposals for this debate. And we don't have a project with ninety proposals? Ninety concrete proposals in family policies, youth policies, policies and innovation and in the environmental policies of Green Galicia, and we have no proposals! His proposal is that of the economic concert, but if we've met him! Do you really know any funding studies in the autonomous communities that you agree with your proposal for funding in Galicia? Tell me who. Tell me who, to talk to him and be able to really contrast. Either we're all wrong, or BNG is wrong. So exactly what is planning? You say you're in favour of maintaining the jobs and the activity of the bridge thermal power plant. Okay, okay, I got it. Let's keep working on it. Let's keep working on it. There was a deputy in this chamber who was part of the Bridge staff, it's a pity he's not here to really explain it to us. This government has done nothing about the Bridges, and it turns out that as President of the Union, as a minister of the People's Party, we have managed to invest more than 200 million euros to suit the European Union's CO2 emissions. Like we didn't do anything about the bridges? Is the execution of 200 million euros not doing anything for a county? Look, Mrs. Pontón, now it's up to us in Alcoa. For ten years, in spite of the difficulties, of the obstacles, of all the problems we had, with the EUR 30 billion of the tariff deficit that left socialists hidden so that they would not calculate the public deficit, despite the fact that we had to pay EUR 30,000 for the tariff deficit caused by the energy policy of the Socialist Party, Alcoa remained standing. And now we have to make a decision about Alcoa. Mrs. Pontón, if the Socialist Party did not give us a solution for Alcoa, would you be able to break the Government of the Deputy of Lugo? yes or no? Ah, laugh! That is to say, closing Alcohol and cutting down 30% of the gross domestic product of the province of Lugo is not enough reason to break a government with the Socialist Party - which by the way, has lost the elections in a narrow way - in the Deputy of Lugo, has stayed to one seat of the absolute majority the People's Party of Lugo, and do not let us rule in the parliament? That is to rule the most voted list, Mr. Knight! That is to rule the most voted list! [[Applause]] No doubt about it! That's what the lights wanted. The lights wanted them to rule those who lose, because the lights aren't as smart as Mr. Knight. You're talking about migration policy again. But why don't you accept that between the number of people who left Galicia from 2009 to 2019, and the number of people who have entered Galicia from those same years, there are 40,000 more people who have come out of them? They say that as I say, it's an official data. But if I don't say so, the National Institute of Statistics says so. But why don't we accept that? Why don't we really accept the data from the National Institute of Statistics, whether good or bad, benefit us or harm us? You say that if we're going to hook up with political parties, they don't have any Members, no concierge, and they don't have any representation in Galicia. But look, Your Honor, I would never go from the crochet with Mr. Otegi, I couldn't. I couldn't look into the eyes of the Greeks and go off the hook and take a picture of myself with Mr. Otegis. I couldn't be a lady, I couldn't! [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, the BNG was at a time, a legislate, where he won the Socialist Party on seats. I know that can't be said here, but it's the polls, it's the history of the country. So BNG had a concrete proposal for the country, and the Greeks understood that BNG should be the leader of the opposition. Now the BNG was the party that took fewer votes and fewer seats in the last elections of the year 2016. And the question is why. Do you think the Greeks are all wrong? Do you think maybe they didn't match their strategy? I clearly suggest they don't go on. You don't continue to support the Socialist Party everywhere because they're going to disappear. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Laughter]] Look, you ask for only what Galicia is interested in is no longer part of your idea. If you pay the debt of 700 million euros, yes, you have to bring it to trial, but you're a member of the Socialist Party. Let the dependency be updated, yes, yes, but you are members of the Socialist Party. That the budget drops by 30% can't be, but they're members of the Socialist Party. So what has to happen in Galicia so that you are not a member of the Socialist Party? Is there anything that really has to happen so that you can recover the protagonist of the country's political life? [[Applause]] But at the end of the day, they say what they say, we know what this is all about: trying to get a bunch of guys in a deputy or a council and make president of the deputy or council to whom they lost the election. Is that your proposal for Galicia? You'll know, Your Honor. I'll tell you what I think because I feel a lot calmer saying what I think is hiding what I feel. Mr. Sánchez, you say we agreed with the parties of the regime to change the Constitution; but you want to vice president of a government with a party of the regime. You're a consistent person! You're here angry and upset because the Socialist Party seems not to have given them everything they asked for. The Socialist Party is that party of the regime you were talking about a few minutes ago. And why do you want to vice president with a party in the regime? Is the regime yours? It'll be...! [[Laughter]] Look, I can assure you that, after a few years dedicated to politics, I've never seen as much contempt from one party to another as I've seen in recent weeks in national politics. After that contempt that the Socialist Party has treated Podemos, which you now come here to talk about an alternative to the People's Party... it was much more coherent Mr. Villares, so Mr. Villares, probably can't be in that group. When you have to say no, you say no, and nothing happens. You agree to rule with the Socialist Party, yes or no? Yes. You agree to rule with a party of the regime. Yes. Shut up for once and don't talk about the regime again! It's reasonable in this situation. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, to say to a person, or to a collective that makes up a platform, that this collective is a voter, militant or sympathizer of Podemos or BNG is not an insult to that collective, or is it? So now it turns out that a person sympathizes with We are insulting her? Exactly. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Don't manipulate, Mr. Sánchez. Do not manipulate. The fact that a militant from Podemos, or a militant from BNG, constitutes a platform against a decision is not to insult him by saying he is militant, sympathetic or voting for Podemos or BNG. I don't mind you saying that there are people who vote for the People's Party and stand up for a concrete proposal, I don't think it's an insult. I don't think voting in can be an insult; therefore, I don't think that being part of a platform where there are people voting in can be considered an insult or a contempt when I say it publicly. You say in Bergantinos' Cabana -- it must be that the data has gone wrong again -- you don't get anything from the wind canon. It's 60,000 euros a year. Maybe for you 60,000 euros a year is nothing, but for Bergantino Cabana it's 10 million pesetas. Yeah, yeah, yeah... [[Laughter]] Look, you're talking about the windshields. Do you know that the only government to which the windists took him continuously to trial went to the Government of the People's Party of Galicia? Do you know that the windmills took us to the Supreme Court? But don't you realize that we have no more commitments than with the Greeks and the Greeks? We were denounced, taken to the Court of First Instance, to the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, to the Supreme Court, and lost, and won Galicia. You won't catch me on this, Your Honor. Say what you say, say what you want, I have no more commitments than with the Greeks and the Greeks. None. [[Applause]] Absolutely none, Your Honor. None! After ruling for four years in Ferrol, Coruña and Santiago, you talk about housing policy. And what did you do, for four years, in the three cities? I want housing! How many square meters did they give up to Galician Union for housing? I'm looking for square meters! How many defiances have you prevented in Galicia? One or two? What about the 1,700 we stopped? Your Honor, I am not going to remember how the City Government of Coruña considered housing policy, because that is already in court. We don't buy homes for any friends. No, Your Honor. No, Mr. Sánchez, no, no, no, no. No, Your Honor. And you know why? Because if someone buys homes for a friend, immediately ceases in the Government of Galician Union. I don't want to talk about it, Your Honor, because that chapter is just closed. And I don't want to talk when people can't defend themselves or replicate. You did, so I don't accept you teaching me about housing policies. Not a square meter has yielded to us neither the Ferrol Town Hall, nor the Santiago Town Hall, nor the Coruña Town Hall. And the soil is property of the Town Hall, 10% of urban use is property of the Town Hall. The Galician Union has no single square metre anywhere in any municipality of the country. Don't teach housing policy lessons after four embarrassing years in Podemos housing policies, Your Honor. You're talking again about the privatization of health care. It just happens that the privatization of health is exactly the model contrary to the model of public health that this Government is implementing. But there's one thing that didn't go wrong. Look, this morning I said that Galicia has the best public health in its history, and I asked the groups and spokesmen to tell me whether there was a time when public health in Galicia was better than at the moment. You've spoken in the first round and in the second round. No comment, they didn't say anything. With his silence it's all very clear. This is the first time that they say a truth about public health: current public health is the best public health that ever existed in the Autonomous Community of Galicia. [[Applause]] In any case, Mr. Sánchez, welcome to the Constitution, because to come here to remember the rights of the Spanish Constitution is all a step forward. He reminded me of his intervention in the electoral debate, when Pablo Iglesias drew the Constitution from the Spanish TV cameras. That's good. It's good that we can enter the Constitution. I suppose we'll keep this for the rest of the legislation. When you lose your election, they say, "slaves who vote for the master, for the kacicus, for what he commands, for the usual, for the alienated people." That's what we could say when we lost the 2016 autonomous elections. No wonder, Your Honor, that you have a vision of Galicia other than mine. If a member of the People's Party had made these demonstrations, I would ask him to leave the Minutes. Not you, you come here to teach lessons of democracy, ethics, responsibility and coherence. Mr. Knight, I don't think you've heard clearly from me the list of all the people I've cited as opposition leaders, or leaders of your party, in the last ten years. It's impossible to consider them as part of the past. Is it really Mrs. Pontón, is it Mr. Sánchez, is it Mr. Villares, and are you a part of the past? Cite 'em at four. Are you the past? Mr. Knight, I will not accept this resignation because I understand that I didn't mean that, although sometimes the subconscious produces these kinds of reflections that are unable to control, Your Honor. I understand. [[Applause]] Sometimes it happens to us all. You say for the first time - and it says well - in Galicia the People's Party was not the first most voted force. True, there are 85,000 votes that voted for VOX. How useful it is for the VOX Socialist Party! Right, Mr. Knight? How useful it is to the Spanish Socialist Workers Party for the existence of VOX! [[Murmurs.]] I understand, Your Honor, that what you're trying to do is to keep it complete and absolutely clean, to see if that's how you can ever win some elections. [[Murmurs.]] Anyway, this isn't new, it's as old as the Romans: divide and you'll win. You use this technique. But, Mr. Caballero, I was not a candidate in the European elections, I was not a candidate in the general elections. Sometimes I've had the honor of being a candidate, we always win. Yes, Mr. Knight. You yourself have been a candidate in the autonomic elections, and so good a result has come out that you have not taken your own record, Mrs. Knight. But, please, how can you come here to say exactly that we've lost the elections! [[Applause]] It's a surprise, Mr. Knight. Mr. Knight, in any case, I don't hide from you that your proposal has been very amusing. Be careful with that word, chitton, because I'm afraid you can start having a motto. [[Laughter]] Mr. Knight, chitton is not a good motto, and if you put a motto on yourself, it's very inappropriate. You speak of Mr. Married and Mr. Sanchez. If Mr. Casado denied the 700 million euros to Galicia, if Mr. Casado made the decision of an energy policy that was absolutely inappropriate, I would close Mr. Meirama and close The Bridges; if Mr. Casado had not taken steps to maintain the viability of Alcoa, I would say not to Mr. Casado. However, Mr. Sánchez said no to the 700 million euros, he said no to Alcoa, he said no to Meirama, he said no to the Bridges, and Mr. Caballero said yes to Mr. Sánchez. That's a big difference, Mr. Knight. When you have the responsibility to preside over Galicia, it is obvious that you owe it to the Greeks; and as President of a Government we owe ourselves to the Greeks above the parties. I don't think you should go that way, but you chose that path. He says that's his proposal, defending the Socialist Party and what he does. Anyway, if the Socialist Party is wrong, it's well done; if the People's Party is right, that can't be. Look, it's your first debate, allow me a recommendation and a wish for the future: more humility and luck in the following interventions, Mr. Caballero; more humility and luck. Because coming here to pass the bill on elections in which none of the Members of the House participate is at least surprising. [[Applause]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it bothers you that if you talk here about the situation in Spain — you can check it — and you bother the same people who are constantly speaking here — I insist — of a party that has no parliamentary representation, you don't have a single conciliator, one provincial deputy. You have, in my opinion, a problem of coherence. Look, of course we have to talk about Spain, how are we not going to talk about Spain if we're in Spain? Imagine I hadn't come here to talk about Spain, about France, about Portugal... of course we have to talk about the Government of Spain, because Galicia is Spain! And the Government of Spain should also have respect for all the Greeks. We'd like the Government of Spain to be also a government for the Greeks, who fulfilled their commitments and did not question them continuously. We'd like the Government of Spain to be also a government for the Greeks and not assume of a budget that lowers 30% of investments in Galicia and increases 60% of investments in other communities. We'd like the Government of Spain to be also from Galicia and to provide solutions for our industry, rather than aggravate its problems. We'd like the Government of Spain to be a government for the Greeks too, and not to be scorned, and not blackmailed, and not told us that "if you want the 700 million that are yours, vote for Pedro Sanchez in the investment session." We'd like the Government of Spain to be also a government for the Greeks and not a party in a permanent election campaign. We'd like him to have more respect for Galicia, because Galicia has always had respect for the governments of Spain. Nationalism bothers you that if you talk about Spain, there's no novelty and they're consistent on that issue. Populism also bothers you, even with nuances, that you talk about Spain because they have political references outside of Spain, on other continents; well, each one has political references wherever you want! But the Socialist Party is upset that it talks about the Government of Spain because they are obliged to defend the indefensible. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many ways of being in the Government, but there is only one way of ruling, which is by joining the people and not dividing it; which is by effectively managing, with planning and with rigour; and which is by defending the general interests and being beside the people, the hard and mature, the weak cows and fat cows, in recession and in kindness. On the contrary, it's the nationalist regimes, the populist regimes. The opposite is the rule that currently serves Spain. And, of course, we don't want that rule for Galicia. In Spain there were early elections in April because of the Socialist Party's inability to govern. And there will be other elections in advance on November 10 because of the Socialist Party's inability to form Government. The balance of the two failed legislations is the failure of the Socialist Party, and it cannot be the failure of the Spaniards and much less of the Greeks, which we have nothing to do with the Government of Mr. Sánchez. We, after three laws of stability, if we have a balance. In Galicia today there is less unemployment than when we get to the government. In Galicia the crisis was able to overcome it with the help of families and workers. In Galicia it's snowing and exposed more than ever. Galicia has social policies with more assumptions and more services than those she had at the time of economic kindness. Galicia has a renewed public health and has a commitment to make a new Galego Health Service where hospitals and health centres refer to. Galicia, above all, has a future and a right horizon. We have a balance, we have stability and we have goals, and I have tried to put them into practice in the 1990s that I quoted this morning: in Galicia family, in Galicia girl, in Galicia innovation and in Galicia green. Nobody knows what's going to happen in Spain in the next twelve weeks, what all the Greeks know is what's going to happen in Galicia in the next twelve months. And what we have is the commitment to present to all the Greeks what we want to do in the next 12 years; so we have a proposal, so we have a balance and that is why we have stability. In the face of uncertainties, Galicia responds with stability; and in the face of frivolities, Mr. Caballero, Galicia responds with rigour. In the face of extreme positions, Mr. Sánchez, Galicia will respond with moderation and centrality. In the face of the rupture, Galicia will defend the Spanish Constitution, Mrs. Pontón, and the Statute for the autonomy of Galicia. And in the face of discrimination, Galicia will respond firmly, defending the interests of the Greeks. [[Applause]] The answer to everything that's going on, ladies and gentlemen, is Galicia. Yes, I presume of Greek—each one has its faults—I presume of Greek wherever he is. And I'm talking to my colleagues, presidents of autonomous communities, and I'm assuming what the people of Greece have done and what the people of Greece have achieved for these ten years. In Galicia it should be the answer, and why not teach the Galician model to the rest? Is the best model the Catalan? Is Navarre's model the model to export? Do we, ladies and gentlemen, always do things wrong and the rest always do them well? And this lack of self-esteem for Galicia why are you so pessimistic about the country? Why don't you guys value everything Galicia has done for these ten years? In Spain there are candidates, very many!, but there is no president of the Government. In Galicia there may or may not be a candidate, but the Greeks have no doubt that they will have a government that governs — the Union — and they have a president who will serve everyone every day, until the last day. You guys talk a lot about such a bean. Removing this bean is all solved, it would be fantastic! But look, I know, of course, that by far they are not all that happens in Galicia; but the Greeks can make it clear to me that Galicia is all. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-25-DSPG128.u112	Thank you, President. [[Applause]] It is worth remembering — it is something important — that parliamentary groups — it is important information, uh! — can submit up to 40 motions for resolutions per group, referred to in Article 141 of the Galician Parliament's Rules of Procedure and the Bureau's Agreement, heard by the Speakers' Committee on 17 September. They will be on the broad lines of non-local general policy, of simple wording, and they will not be able to give rise to a separate vote within each proposal. All of this will have to be before 10.30 a.m. on Thursday, September 26th, at the General Registry of the House. Subsequently, the Bureau shall, at 12 noon, proceed to its qualification and to the distribution to parliamentary groups of all the proposals admitted. The deadline for the submission of the proposals and the request for separate groupings or voting of the proposals will end on Thursday, 26 September, at 22.30 p.m. and will be qualified by the Bureau the following day, Friday, 27 September, at 9.30 a.m. I believe that this information is important. And so we suspended the session until Friday, 27 o'clock in the morning.
