ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u1	Good morning. Let's start the session. [[Pause.]] The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. Provision of pledges or oaths to abide by and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of a new Member's autonomy in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u2	As a preliminary point, before entering the agenda, it is the provision of pledges or oaths to abide by and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of Galicia's autonomy of a new Member. By complying with Article 7.1 of the Rules of Procedure, I am seeking the promise or oath to abide by the Constitution and the Statute of the new Member's autonomy — see if I say so well, because yesterday I am confused with these three... — Mr Xoán Xosé Jove González. According to the procedure, the formula is to answer "yes, I swear" or "yes, I promise" to the question of this presidency. I'm asking you to answer the question I'm going to ask you. Don Xoán Xosé Young González, do you swear or promise to adhere to and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u3	Yes, I promise as a legal imperative to abide...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u4	Thank you, promise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u5	...the Statute of autonomy and the Constitution, deepening the principles of social justice, equality and fighting for a more sustainable environment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u6	Thank you very much, promised. Thank you very much. Once the promise has been made, he shall become fully a Member. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] We've already entered the legislative texts. Debate taken into account by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, amending Law 2/2016, of 10 February, of the ground of Galicia, to promote certain actions for environmental improvement
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u7	For the presentation of the bill, Mrs Vilán Lorenzo has the floor by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u8	Good morning to all and to all. Thank you, President. First of all, I want to greet the representatives of the platform that Casalonga fought to prevent it from becoming a situation like this, which is Grixoa and Miramontes, in Santiago de Compostela, and also the representatives of the Council of Teo. In recent times, perhaps in fashion, most political parties seem to want to fight for being champions in the protection of the environment; even you, ladies and gentlemen, and Members of the People's Party, who go around pretending they want a green Galicia. There's a very wise saying that says, "By your deeds you will know them." And today we'll see if your actions correspond to what you pray for, if you vote in favour of taking into account this bill, because I'm sure you -- I know it -- many and many of you, are concerned about the safety and health of the Galicians and the Greeks, I know it is, because for many years there are many places in Galicia where situations are happening -- let's say -- that they can affect or are already affecting, and this is the test. This is a dump, but this photograph is the result of the explosion in Paramos, in Tui, because of illegal pyrotechnics in that case. For those events that have already negatively affected the security, health and environment of the country, we believe that it is necessary to save them, and the way to save them in a democracy, the most effective way, is through policy measures that avoid precisely those harmful results that we have already seen in our community and that we see every day. What's going on? What do we see every day that's happening? For there are companies that legitimately promote installations of hazardous activities, in this case of waste management and also of pyrotechnic activities, in rustic soil and near residential areas, therefore, in areas that are inhabited. What's the problem? The problems, for example, for waste management plants, are that they start by calling waste management plants and end up being this, they end up being dumps; dumps that are then out of control and that are already initially very little guaranteed to protect the environment. It also appears that the current legislation makes it the municipalities that are obliged to issue reports, for example, on requests for urban compatibility of these installation projects prior to the integrated environmental authorisation, which is already within the competence of the Galician Union. And it also happens that the municipalities, we all know, there are larger ones, there are medium ones, there are very small ones, and they have no means; the media are very precarious, especially in those municipalities that have the largest rural area in our country. I'm going to put the three examples that have recently affected us very negatively in Galicia: the pyrotechnics of Paramos, in Tui; the Casalonga quarry, in Teo; and the situation of the dump of Grixoa, of Miramontes, in Santiago. There are three real, different, different situations. On the one hand, it's a pyrotechnic activity; on the other hand, it's a project; and on the other hand, it's one that started being a waste management plant, a dump that already exists. In Paramos, I know that many and many of us were there, the feeling upon arrival was... I personally am fortunate not to have ever been in a war, but the feeling that I gave, according to graphic means that they were there and that if they were, was to be in Kosovo, with everything destroyed. It is true that the ship that was in Paramos was an illegal ship, but in Tui there is even a legal ship of the same company that had legal problems for its enlargement, and that also caused problems at its moment at the Town Hall. We're not only talking about illegal ships, but also about pyrotechnic companies that have legal ships that live with people. In the old barracks of Casalonga, in Teo, we're talking about hazardous activities related to waste, waste management. This isn't coming from now on. A couple of years ago, in 2017, the municipality entered a request for urban compatibility to install a waste management plant by a company, the Toysal group. Theoretically, it was to produce biogas, that was the theory. But at that moment the entire municipality of Teo, the entire municipal corporation, also its concelers and concellers, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, the platform Casalonga cleans up from waste and all the neighbors and neighbors of Teo opposed this waste management plant, and they were right. They were right because, in fact, what they didn't want was to turn into this which is now Grixoa in Santiago. They were so right that, after the Town Hall issued a negative report and that Junta was supposed to paralyze that activity, the company itself had turned that situation around. Although I was going to rent the quarry space at an entry point so as not to develop any mining activity, I now turn it around and say you want to get stone out of the quarry, specifically 95,000 tons. There is no information to the Town Hall or about the mine restoration plan, about the work plan, about the public safety and health documentation, in a very similar way that this initial project, which had virtually no restoration plan, occupied this space throughout that project. In this summer, his government opened a file of expiry due to the lack of activity of the quarry, after the council, which has only one technician, issued a negative report on this activity. Of course, you go behind the town hall activity, when the city halls have much less means than the Galician Union, we're scared of it, and what we want is to make it easier for this not to happen. That's why this bill we bring here today. That company says it wants to install a technosol management plant, which is what is now called modern. The problem is that you can turn that project into something like, something like, this one of Grixoa, which all that produces us is disgusting without needless to smell, just by looking at a photograph. They even pretend the emptying of a pond there. I'm sure you'd be against, too, and they're against, what's going on in Grigoa, in Miramontes. I'm sure the Directorate General of Environmental Quality is now working with the Galician Environment Prosecutor's Office, after the neighborhoods of Santiago, and specifically Grixoa, had to go to the Prosecutor's Office, the Prosecutor's Office opened in October last year criminal investigation proceedings, and now there are two complaints opened by the Prosecutor's Office for about six months. The Prosecutor's office — we told the counsellor the day he came here to answer an interpellation — was enough to read the inspection records that between 2010 and 2018 — I think I would remind you — the technicians of his counsellor were standing on the Grixoa plant, on the Miramontes plant. Those records, until the prosecutor's office took them in hand, we don't know what happened to them, either they didn't read from the technicians or if they read them, they thought they didn't pose any kind of problem and they didn't have to go anywhere with them, not even to the prosecutor's office. The minutes say a lot of things, among them, that you exceed the number of organics poured into this quarry in Grixoa, which were neither in the initial construction project nor in the integrated environmental authorization, which we already know you are going to tell us that it was granted by the Government of Emilio Pérez Touriño in 2008. These are three examples, three real examples, and they're not the only ones, in the rest of Galicia something like this is happening. We believe that to avoid safety problems for neighbors and neighbors, to prevent Casalonga from turning into a new Grixoa or a new Miramontes, to avoid situations like what happened in Paramos, in Tui, we must change this situation, and the way to change a situation, the most secure way in a democracy, is through a norm, through a bill, precisely for that reason we brought this bill, to modify Galician soil law of 2016. We think that's how we're going to have more security for people, better health, better environmental conditions, too. We have already asked you, and through you to the Government of the Union, to amend the Industrial Waste Management Plan of Galicia 2016-2022, and you told us no. In that committee in which you were asked and voted against, the possibility of amending the rules came out. It's more, the day the advisor came here to answer the question, she said literally: fulfilling the law will solve the problem. But following the current law doesn't solve the problem because the problem is here and here, the problem is latent in Casalonga. So actually, by complying with a different law, the problem may be solved, and sometimes we must risk, in democracy, too, in accordance with the procedures which mark the regulation, of course. If he didn't risk it, if there were people who wouldn't risk it, we wouldn't be where we are today. If nobody risked climate change at the moment and insisted, we wouldn't be in the situation we're in today. We believe that it is necessary to modify the Law of the Land in its article 35, when it speaks of uses and activities permitted in the rustic soil, so that it is written more in a manner that fits into the current reality and thus ends with the situation of defence to which many neighbours and many neighbors of our community are seen, and we have to go to the Prosecutor's Office to defend their rights. We also add Article 39 with a new letter, the letter ga), which will complete Article 35 for waste management and also for pyrotechnic installations, so that they cannot be located within a distance of less than 2,500 metres of rural or urban nuclei, or 1,000 metres of the nearest housing — unless municipal planning motivates otherwise. In order to ensure this security — if we wish it to be true — we have added a transitional provision so that, within a period of no more than two years since this legislative amendment comes into force — if you agree to vote in favour of taking into consideration, Junta will be aware of the facilities that do not comply with the law, that it will transfer this information to the municipalities and that they will be urged to change that situation and adapt to the new regulations. And we help the municipalities that have precarious means with a second transitional arrangement, so that the Union cooperates through agreements with those municipalities that do not have enough means, and finance their actions to get reports. I remember again that there's only one technician in Teo, who had to do this job in a huge way. If you are willing to change this situation so that the solution is final — at least different — and end these problems that exist. With the situation we have now, and as drafted by the Land Law, we believe that we must vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration. And then, with consensus and dialogue, we're able to negotiate among all of you a standard in which the Greeks and the Greeks...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u9	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u10	...—now finished, President—they are standing in front of the landfills and pyrotechnics beside their houses. We are even willing to debate the limits, the distances, what you consider appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u12	Good morning, gentlemen. From En Marea we want to make a first contextualization of Galician soil law, because we understand that the problem exposed in relation to three municipalities is really a general problem that is determined by the way in which the competition regime assigned to the municipalities in relation to certain works, certain actions, in the 2016 Land Law. In fact, I would like to recall that it was the object of general criticism by the academy and also by the technicians and techniques involved in urban planning and the management of the territory, the fact of the competitive distribution at the time of reporting and authorizations for how certain actions were performed in rustic soil. This attribution, which made it rest upon the municipalities that previously rested on the autonomous administration, which distributed and attributed powers above all exempting from responsibility, precisely through the way of reports, in relation to the municipalities, did not take into account on many occasions — and had just taken account of examples of small councils, especially small councils — the resources actually existing for the issue of such reports, and no provision of material resources or personal resources. In addition, as can be seen in Galician Land Law itself, there has been no provision for legislation to remedy this situation, nor any economic memory to deal with it. That is why, for example, this reform now proposed by the Socialist Party in one of its additional provisions provides precisely the subject of agreeing to have the capacity to deal with the issue of these reports. We understand — as you understood most of the criticism at your time in 2016 — that it had the effect for the Galician Union to simply disengage itself from its responsibilities in the management of the territory. Of course, what was the main injury? The main prejudice was the weak management of the rustic soil, and, in general, of the Welsh rural space, and always with a further corrective intervention much more costly for the autonomous administration itself, either on the disciplinary track well be on the way to the courts, when, indeed, with an efficient allocation of resources and a rational distribution of competences could have operated a different, more agile and more secure framework for the goods that are in question, to those that have just been referred to right now. From here on, what is the result? The result is the deprotection of valuable goods in the management of the territory, including — as it was placed here in manifesto, directly or indirectly — life, health and the natural environment. From the point of view of the protection of values that try to safeguard land management by the Galician Land Law, the result is a greater vulnerability. Why? Because there is real deprotection of these values, due to the low quality of reporting or the low capacity of government resilience to pressure, in some cases, from companies for the implementation of certain activities. Why? Because institutional protection is less because of that low capacity. We would like to highlight in this regard, especially with regard to spatial planning, several values that are particularly unprotected. First of all, natural resources, and, therefore, the greatest vulnerability to certain activities that make an enumeration, which I believe is not taxive, the Socialist Party in relation to the natural environment. In general, the protection or low protection of the environment, but also the productive resources that provide us with the territorial base, i.e. the use of rustic soil in the primary sector, for example, for farming or agricultural development, is also seriously compromised by these types of actions. And finally, and on occasions such as the one invoked in the reform in the second of the articles, it indirectly affects the quality of life, and even in some cases the commitment to life and health. Reference was made to the case of silos in the pyrotechnic of Tui, the illegal situation in which Paramos was in; but also to situations that, even being qualified as legal, were produced on the basis that no prior activity had been done with all rigour, something that we see at times has deadly consequences. What is the material consequence of this situation? It is because, far from promoting municipal autonomy — on the contrary — its vulnerability is produced by the low technical capacity and resilience of the pressures suffered by administrations as a result of the activities undertaken by certain companies. Therefore, from an institutional point of view, the situation caused by the current Galician Land Law as compared to the general authorization regime was the weakening of municipal autonomy. And we say that because the attribution of powers without attribution of personal and material resources so that we can actually make the issue of reports with rigour, without pressure, so that we can emit something that is respectful of those values that try to protect with the management of the territory, the result is precisely the weakness of the protection of these values. And all this with a result of violation of the rights that they theoretically wanted to protect on the part of their promoters, in some cases voluntarily, and in some cases even not intentionally, but because of desire or lack of technical capacity. Therefore, the characterization of the technical response is of low quality. But we must still make reference to an additional circumstance that has been overlooked. There is a more extreme consequence of this situation, which is the increased risk of both corrupt practices and customer practices. It's the extreme of undesirable situations, the risk of practices of this nature associated with the weakness of the municipalities, especially those that may have a smaller size, a smaller population, lower resources or low political weight, because of the simple fact of the difficulty of refusing to report positively projects that are presented by companies as job providers in the locality. And all this, of course, aside from subsequent acts that are mere propaganda, do not materialize as jobs, or are not of the nature and the characteristics promised. Also without discount—and has happened in numerous examples, Tui's could also be one of them surely—social relevance, or social implementation, or the social recognition of the company itself in the village with its previous implementation, which makes contact with the municipal power give rise to often unloved results, especially in what is the protection of the goods we are talking about, particularly the management of the territory, the natural environment and the protection of the life and health of people. In conclusion of all this, we understand that in Marea this bill must have a favourable vote. Of course, from our group you will have it, because we understand that it strengthens local autonomy, it materially strengthens the capacities of the municipalities to react to the potential breach of their land management values on rural land, on rustic land. We also understand that there are reports that the efficiency of self-government resources is not denied — or should not — with local autonomy. So for the best protection of values attached to spatial planning, the natural environment or productive resources of people's health and life. For this reason, from our parliamentary group we will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u13	Thank you, Mr. Villares. This presidency understands that positioning is a political party, which is that of En Marea integrated into the Joint Group. I want to make this clear so that we don't... You will be positioned, in this case, as spokesman for the Mixed Group. Another thing is that you belong to the political party in Marea, that's another question. Mr Bará speaks for the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u14	Good morning. First of all, we have to say that the BNG will support the admission of this bill, but not because we think this bill will solve issues that are now in the public debate, because it will not solve them. First of all, because the law has no retroactive effects, there are projects that are already in processing. And secondly, because we have to differentiate issues that have nothing to do with them. One thing is the industrial waste management plants, such as the one that was intended to be installed in Casalonga, which can be put down with the current Land Law, as was done by the Teo Town Hall and with a lot of passivity of the Galician Union; but the Teo Town Hall, after eight months of turning it around, did make a negative compatibility report to put down that plant. And another thing is what we are going to do now in Casalonga — Casalonga 2nd phase — which is a restoration plan, which has its own state-wide legislation, a basic regulation, which regulates this type of activity, and which, therefore, would not affect this amendment of the Land Law that is proposed here. So I think it's important to differentiate those plans. We support the admission of the procedure because it has to be a starting point for us to give a debate on this issue, because we have serious problems in this regard that we have to resolve, improving in what is necessary the drafting of the Law on the ground, also the Industrial Waste Plan of Galicia, and dealing with a very worrying situation that is taking place throughout the country, above all - you have to say - in the province of Coruña, in the vicinity of Santiago, in the cases of Miramontes or Casalonga, and also - as we are seeing these days - this toxic mining field that is currently the Soberado Town Hall, where there are various pseudo-legalized, clandestine projects, which are endangering public health, the state of rivers and the environment. So we have to deal with this issue in all its complexity and not sell magic solutions, because this proposal to modify the Land Law does not solve the hard core of the problem we have in the country with regard to the speculative operations that are underway, with millionaire businesses to use the canteras as macroverteros, which is the case of the project that is currently in Casalonga, of the Toysal Project, which goes through another road of circulation and with another rhythm. It is supported in the state legislation on the restoration of mining and quarrying activities, and also in the state legislation regulating the treatment of construction and demolition waste. Here's what it's about, an operation to give a big ballast filling the gap of a quarry with 9 million cubic metres of waste -- which say they're inert -- of construction and demolition, which start being inert waste, and then we don't know what they're just being. That's what needs to stop right now. And the municipalities too, with the Law of the Land in hand, can do... because, of course, the Law of the Current Land speaks of this report of urban compatibility and speaks of those cases where there is an obvious urbanization of the land, an urban transformation of the land, which was the case in the first project that Toysal tried for Casalonga. And all this for not talking about the already destroyed, about the evil we've done with that epidemic here, promoted by the People's Party, about this real plague of technosols, about that device to plant abandoned quarryes all over the country, especially in the province of Coruña, of real toxic bombs of delayed effect. That evil is done, let's stop now the new evils, the new threats we've got on us. And that's what we have to do -- as we say -- by changing more than the Law of the ground, because even in the wording that this text has, we see many ambiguities and many inaccuracies that then, in any case, we can analyze. The problem now, with regard to the Toysal project, is in state law, and at the moment, with the paralysis of the state policy of the Government and Parliament — I believe that today there was a plenary session in the State Parliament after seven or eight months — I do not know if we can expect anything. But, in any case, the Socialist Party has something to say, too, because of its competences at the state level, to find a solution to these problems. The problem is in those abandoned areas where there are these speculative movements, where there is a real piracy of companies that are not engaged in waste management, but are engaged in waste management, and which are buying these branches all over the country to use them as macro-verteries to deposit in them all kinds of waste. They buy land at low prices, lands that are devalued, and they revalue us with this real business, which we estimate in the case of Toysal in Casalonga is over 50 million euros. Here there's no interest in environmental restoration, which is the company's interest in doing a great deal of business, moving waste from there we don't know where, that they announce that it's going to be waste of construction and demolition, inert waste, but what they're going to be, by the background we've got. There are also other solutions, as we have already said, that would pass through the natural regeneration of the quarry itself, its restoration, the conservation of an artificial pond that grew there and the use of the waste itself generated in the mining activity that no longer has been used. We therefore believe that this problem must be tackled — as we said — in all its complexity and diversity of situations. That is why the BNG has already brought to this Parliament various initiatives which are precisely in search of that comprehensive solution. That is why we proposed, firstly, to set up a study committee on the regulation of industrial waste management in Galicia, analysing these two issues: the changes that would have to be made in the Land Law and also the changes in the Industrial Waste Law, to avoid that indefinition, that open door. Because I believe that everyone can understand that industrial waste plants must be in industrial parks, not in canteens; that seems to be an obvious matter. But the Waste Plan doesn't leave it well closed, so it would need to be modified. And then, of course, to face the change in state legislation, these two royal decrees that have to do with the restoration of degraded spaces in the canteens, which at this time is excessively ambiguous and permissive; and also what makes reference to the management of waste of construction and demolition. The Galician Union also has a duty to do, because it can also - as other communities have done - to adopt its own legislation on this which is called valorization of construction waste intended for mining restoration operations.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u15	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u16	Yes, Mr. President. So I think the issues are clear. It's true that the Law of the Land can be improved, but we can't sell this amendment as a magic solution, and less as the solution to the problem you now have Casalonga and other branches that may be in similar situations. This project, the first project, the industrial plant project for sewage treatment in Toysal, was primarily stopped by the massive social mobilization of an entire people against this environmental aggression next to their homes. That's what he did, after all, that the Town Hall had to put on the batteries and, after many turns and turns, to make that report of negative compatibility, because there was an obvious urban transformation. And what this amendment to the Land Law project is about the pyrotechnics, in fact, that you have to look for a solution to the specific sectoral regulations as well as waste management plants. But here we're not talking about waste management plants, waste management facilities, in this case it's not about that, it's a plan...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u17	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u18	...restorement of a quarry, and that's what we need to look for other solutions that are not on this proposal. In any case, as we say, welcome to open the debate and to seek a global solution to all this problem that is being permitted, as we are now seeing also in Sobrado, by the People's Party's Union Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u19	Thank you, Mr Bará. Parliamentary Group on the Left.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u20	Good morning. It begins a new period of sessions in which I hope to undermine the decoration many times, a decoration understood by the People's Party, which is all that bothers the People's Party, which criticizes the People's Party, which expresses opinions contrary to the People's Party. The word decoration was a very commonly used concept during the Franco-French dictatorship, a word which was attributed to national values of exemplaryness and morality -- theirs, that of franchiseism -- as the People's Party now intends to impose its social standards and put them as a limit. It affected customs and social relations and was also synonymous with honesty, honesty and dignity. It was standard, shape and background, but it was also tax. And I ask, what undermines the decoration of this House that people on the Casalonga platform could manifest on a shirt that doesn't want that dumpster there? Who do you insult? To what dignity does the issuing of an opinion like saying "The Bull Mine" attack? For as I said or group Acts Against the Decoration: in the democracy of the horse, keeping the chasm in line is still necessary. And what you want to keep the line is the opinion of society with these rules that for the first time put in writing and leave them well portrayed to the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Applause]] As far as this legislative initiative is concerned, it is a problem that we have to deal with, and that is why we are going to support the admission of this initiative, and if we are to prosper — we are pessimistic — we would participate in the improvement of this legislative initiative which I believe is necessary. We say this debate is necessary because in recent times it is not only the question of Casalonga, one cannot make a legislative amendment only for a specific case: it is Casalonga, Santa Icía, Lousame, Teo, the Furoca in Coristanco... there are basically conflicts due to the same problem, and where there is no conflict is because they are less populated, less urban, with less capacity to respond to these aggressions. All the cases I'm talking about are landfill projects or realities and they're all located in rustic soil. That is, the Galicia Industrial Waste Management Plan, for example, indicates a number of selection criteria that must be met, but they are not being met. And it says something very reasonable, which is: when possible, there is industrial soil and there is no imperative need to occupy rustic land, all these waste treatment and management plants must be in industrial soil. And only when it's impossible, when Galicia has no proven capacity to manage these same wastes, can they exceptionally be put in rustic. That gave the plan, but it's not being fulfilled. In contrast, the exception has become standard, and the norm is that they are installed in rustic soil because it is economically convenient for companies. Of course, it's much easier to take up an abandoned quarry or buy rustic soil to do that business and not have to settle in a polygon or an industrial park. But there are more criteria that are being breached. There's the quality of the channels of communication, the accesses. I think I was in Furoca, in Coristanco City Hall, where, by the way, the People's Party took part in a motion of censure which has much to do with the paralysing of that waste treatment plant, and I saw it as it was accessed by a corridor, by a three-and-a-half-foot road. And that was approved. Or I went to Gryxoa and I came by where you could access the Gryxoa dumpster, too, through a corridor. So the role stands for everything, but we have a government that doesn't enforce the law, that doesn't even meet the plans that he himself approves. That is to say, "Only if it is not possible to implant into an industrial soil near the producer centres will be authorised in other soil categories." As I say, it is not happening, it is systematically non-compliant, and it also violates the guiding principles that mark Galicia's Industrial Waste Plan, which is the protection of human health and the environment; the fundamental principle that aims to ensure the non-generation of risks to water, air and soil, or flora and fauna; there will be no disturbances caused by noise or smell, nor will it be addressed against landscapes or places of legally protected interest. It's being systematically breached. The diagnosis of the Waste Plan also indicated that in Galicia there is sufficient treatment capacity for the current waste production and that, along with the objective of reducing waste production, it made and makes clear that it has to be a very restrictive government with the selection of the sites of these treatment plants, because on the one hand we should be reducing waste, and on the other hand Galicia already has treatment capacity. Another thing is that companies are cheaper to pour mud, as if they're being seen in the Sobrado dos Monxes Town Hall, in any hill in the country, and often not even protecting the perimeter of those pits. Another thing is that a company like the one that managed the centre of Miramontes is very profitable for their business to violate all the regulations and authorizations they granted it and convert what was something else into a dump of household and urban waste. But that has to do with what we've said here many times, the inability or the poor will of the People's Party to enforce the law. Because, of course, if everything worked according to legality, there were a lot of things that wouldn't happen. And it's normal, besides, that neighborhood reacts, because it doesn't trust law enforcement. To fulfill the plan of action, of course it must be transferred to legislation. And in this case, what is proposed is the amendment of the Law of the ground; a bad law, we have already said it in its processing and approval. A law that's beating changes records. Every six months we have an amendment to the Land Law promoted by the party that approved it, the People's Party, shows that it was a bad law. For example, in this case, the article that defines uses and activities in rustic soil - we criticise it at its time, when it has been approved - that differs rustic soil from landscape protection, especially agricultural protection, forest, landscape..., well, we define all those soils, but at the end we go to article 39, where are the permitted uses and activities, and allows the same uses and activities for any soil, does not prioritize depending on each protection regime. And above all, if we go to the Galician Land Regulations, adopted also in 2016, we see that in particular in this, in terms of waste management treatment, it does not regulate anything, it literally translates what the law says. Just when a regulation has to regulate to shape in legislation what is said to us trans, the regulation doesn't appear to be regulated, and as always, we don't attribute...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u21	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u22	...this is the incompetence, the inability of this government - which is also there, of course - but, of course, there is always a desire to favour what you call economic activity, even if it is the cost of landscape, environmental or people's lives, especially those living in rural areas. We say rural can't turn into an uncontrolled dump so companies do business. Therefore, we support the admission of the process and, if we prosper, we will add additional questions such as the prioritization of the location of these plants in industrial soil and to draw it into the law, because for us this is as fundamental as the fixing of distances that the Socialist Party proposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u23	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u24	Good morning, gentlemen. I just want to make a little note to Mr. Sánchez, a little appreciation of the decoration. I understand that this house is so that we can talk, so that we can debate, so that no one can feel pressured, so that you and I and the other spokesmen from the rest of the parties can debate without feeling pressured or intimidated. That's why the rules we give ourselves in this house, to defend our independence and that you and I can debate without pressure. Anyone can wear the shirt you want out of this Chamber, but here I understand that as a majority group, and you as a minority group, you should know that this protection is perhaps more valuable to you. There's also the issue of neutrality. You imagine, for example, that here we could put banners and that the president of parliament had decided which text would be put. Imagine what it would be like for the majority group to approve, only with the votes of the majority group, that they are slogans and that texts will be put in a banner behind what you're saying. Precisely to guarantee him his rights, his independence and the neutrality of the House, precisely for that reason, we have given ourselves such standards. [[Applause]] Last year, Mrs. Vilán, you asked us to comply with the law, and you brought initiatives in that direction. I've already told them, with a little wonder, that I didn't know what you were doing where you were going to have to come here to ask you to comply with the law. Now they don't have enough to comply with the law anymore, because it seems that when the law is done, it's satisfactory for everyone, but you want it to be modified because you think there are some things that need to be arranged. I consider, as Mr Bará also considers, that what you propose cannot be solved by the change you bring here. But I do want to make some points clear too. Not telling the truth isn't right, it's not good to miss the truth. You gave a press conference yesterday or made a press release saying that this group promised to change the law. I have the text there. So, those who are lying are the media, who put words or statements from their group. If not, I'd like you to clarify it, but don't take the second turn to tell me that when I can't replicate it anymore. This group and the Government that stands by don't move by arbitrariness, I've already told you, by antipathies or sympathies, is moved by strict compliance with the law. In particular, in the processing of such projects, the Government is always guided by strict compliance with environmental legality, and it does so in all cases with maximum guarantees of transparency and public participation. You guys, on the other hand, I've told them sometimes that they seem to want to prevariate. We have laws, we have procedures, we have a sanctioning regime, but all of this gives you absolutely the same. And, Your Honor, this is not passivity, this is to comply with the law and what the rule of law has. You have a somewhat special conception of the administration, where the technicians are not to comply with the law, but to comply with the will of their lordships. I once again reminded him of the model of State Counsel, that there was a need to erase rebellion and violence, because there was an order and there was a ban on rebellion and violence, but it was now necessary for the State Advocate to lie or to cover up or to give an alibi to a minister or minister who lied, saying that there was a report, to justify that we were not given to the Greeks the 700 million that the state owes us. You know, it's called the state attorney's office, it's a measurement report, and you think it's right, because it's how you understand it's the administration -- an administration where you pick up the phone, call the technicians, and the technicians do what you want. But that doesn't work here, it doesn't. Look, you can't process administration proceedings because you don't like it. When there is an application for any kind of activity, this procedure is established and processed according to our laws of protection. Technicians analyze projects with the highest rigor and criterion and work with the highest level of legislation. Look, the Law of the soil, going a little to the modification you propose, includes among the uses of the rustic soil these kinds of waste treatment facilities, as well as other activities of different kinds. And this has been the case since 2002, not as you say, since the last change of law. But, in any case, this same law also protects those rustic soils of special protection, for which it says there must be greater limitations, which must also be imposed through sectoral rules. Therefore, it is considered appropriate to allow the installation of certain waste plants, not even all of them, in the rustic soil, but those that have special protection. On Priga, which is another regulation that affects you, is a roadmap that must follow the industrial waste management activities, so when designing, executing and managing waste treatment facilities, account should be taken of the one established in the Priga. The plan has a specific annex to the situation criteria for future plants, establishing that their location must be in line with the planning instruments of the territory, and always based on technical, environmental, social and easy management criteria. But in assessing the location of these plants, it must be borne in mind that, preferably - and so said the Priga - they must be located in locations where the industrial waste recovery activity generates the least impact. Finally, in Galicia we already have extensive environmental urban legislation that allows us to process properly, and with full guarantees, these types of waste treatment projects. In addition, I assure you that the Board will not grant or grant permission to any project in which there is the least irregularity breach, as it has already happened other times when it has been shown to have an environmental impact, and the project has not gone ahead. Projects like Santa Icía's, projects like the Orders dump, Toysal's project, in Teo, where the same thing happened in Orders, that the processing was stopped after the negative report of the Town Hall, which is what contemplates the regulation itself. I mean, it wasn't an exceptional report, that's what the procedure is. Or, too, what happened to Lousame's dump. Finally, we count on the necessary regulatory instruments, and also appropriate ones. for the processing of these waste plants. So if there are tools and these work correctly, what's the problem? Look, I ask them to act with a little responsibility, not to alarm the population unnecessarily and partisanly, and not to make proposals to camouflage their desire and their incompetence. This initiative emerges from a project filed in September last year by the Board, which is that of Casalonga. And that was precisely the fact that the Teo Council exercised its urban competences and issued an unfavorable compatibility report, which undoubtedly points out that urban legislation and planning were more than enough to prevent the installation of the waste plant. Even the municipality could have municipal environmental legislation, which in this case does not have it, could lay down the batteries, could work a little and approve it, but that's not the case. That's right, Mrs. Vilan, a report that had to be made in a month, it took eight months. Eight months in which the municipality, instead of working, devoted itself to alarming the neighbors and neighbors of Teo when he had the solution in his hand. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, work, be stricter and do not make proposals to change what works to hide, to camouflage, their neglect.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u25	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u26	And on other aspects of his initiative, let me also make notes. Over the distance of placement, more than 2,500 meters from the nucleus, more than 1,000 meters from a dwelling. You've already admitted that this was not good, that you could talk about exactly what measures could be. Of course, I think when you think about what you're recording, you start to have doubts. Because that proposal is that either you don't know our land, because you're proposing that waste plants have to be in remote places that should be anthropized precisely by these plants. Where there are no houses, where there is no industrial activity, where there is no agricultural activity, is where you think it's ideal to bring waste treatment plants. Of course, I ask you, do you know any place where in five kilometers in diameter there's not a population nucleus? Do you know anyone? I invite you, I invite you to tell me. Two thousand plus 2,500 is 5,000, the diameter would be 5,000 meters linear. I don't know Galicia... 2,500, either? Yes, you want us to talk about the diameter of 2,500, but what you're asking is that in 5,000 meters there's not even a... 5,000 meters, the plant would be in the middle, 2500 to one side, 2500 to the other, it's 5,000 meters, 5 kilometers without human activity. Of course, that's either a natural park, or it's a national park, or it's any other environmental protected space. If not, tell me some space, tell me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u27	Finish, please, finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u28	...but you won't be able to. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen, but I ask you the same thing as Mr Bará tells you, don't fool me with this change. I wouldn't, in any case, avoid some of the things you say, because the laws aren't done retroactively. In relation to the agreements with those municipalities. Look, this is a continuous debate. You tell me that a city council of 20,000 people has no resources to make a report... yet you do have resources for your coven to go to Madrid to take a picture of himself with the minister and say that the minister is going to change the national legislation. What I don't know is why, if you have the Minister's commitment to make that change...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u29	Thank you, Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u30	...bring here this change. Or does it happen in the end as it happens here in Galicia,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u31	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u32	...that all your electoral proposals are not worth...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u33	Your time is up, Mr. Trenor. Thank you, your time is up. [[Mr. Trenor López utters words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Socialist Parliamentary Group in the turn of reply, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u34	Thank you, President. In fact, the amendment of the law is not necessary. I don't have much more... the truth is I could not talk about the rest because it's not necessary. I only put three examples, but I said they were concrete examples, that there are more situations like this in the rest of Galicia. In fact, in the corner of Santiago it is happening, I set examples. Indeed, Mr Bará, I did not mention that the law was retroactive. Usually, it's the juridical technicians themselves who have to do with whether or not they cause legal insecurity, and we have to be very careful. In any case, the possible retroactivity of the law could be changed, if the law accepted, it won't... We are not going to go through this debate because the People's Group, the spokesman, has just said that they are going to vote against, so this possibility has ended here. But in any case, if it continued, there would be the possibility of introducing possible retroactivity if you could contribute something to this bill, which unfortunately will not be the case. Democracy is not perfect, of course. This is not a magic solution. You noticed that Cristina Cifuentes was democratically elected and you see how it's done. That means that there are no perfect rules, there are no perfect laws, there are no perfect policies and policies, and democracy is indeed imperfect. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Trenor, I don't know if I have to explain... I'll try to explain. One thing is to keep the law and another thing is to change the law, but they're absolutely compatible, in that it consists. We don't live with the laws of 1978, except for the Constitution, which, of course, must also be amended, and that doesn't mean we don't defend the rules that existed at the time. But to abide by the law and to change the law is absolutely compatible in a democracy; of course, in a democracy. The law is above Priga. I didn't speak for anything about the management plan. In fact, I've already told them at the time that I asked for your amendment and you voted that you didn't. But it's below, the plan is under the law, Mr. Trenor, because it's a decree. And there's a basic principle also in democracy, which is the principle of regulatory hierarchy. What we're asking for is the modification of a law, not the plan. If the Land Law had been modified, the plan would have to be modified precisely to adapt to this change; you would be obliged to do so. And if you were to comply with the law it is so necessary that there was a platform in Santiago that you had to go to the Prosecutor's Office because the records you had at the Environmental Council between 2010 and 2018 marked irregularities, because there might be an environmental crime that you haven't observed for eight years. Look if it's necessary to comply with the law and if you do what you can do here, or if you don't think you're irregular here. I didn't say anything yesterday in any press round, you have to check. I didn't talk to anyone, I didn't make statements, I didn't do anything at all. You might say I'm lying, but at any rate, I'll be able to lie when I speak, but if I'm quiet, it's hard, because they don't say any press rounds. But what you say here is that the state's lawyer, that is to miss the decor of this House and even to miss the democracy itself and to miss the ethics of all the officials and all the officials who belong to that legal body. That is to respect democracy, Mr Trenor, indeed, as you do! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u35	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u36	This listing... the list of article 35 is not closed. The distances, which you should also review, Mr. Trenor, the bills must be read, at least, when you come to debate. They speak of two kilometers, 2500 meters for population nuclei. [[Murmurs.]] I didn't speak for any industrial activity, it's not in the bill. It's a mile for housing. But housing is not the nucleus of population, nor the nucleus of population are the cores of housing. So there's the difference. Too bad you say no and we can't keep arguing. Speaking of alarms, we don't alarm anyone. You go to Paramos... well, it's not necessary, because in Tui they've already told them that they didn't agree with their way of ruling or with the motion of censure that you've been empowered, so it's not necessary for you to go to Paramos at all, to explain anything to them, because they didn't like their way of managing that issue. You're going to talk about whether there was an alarm or not... people died, Mr. Trenor. And you also tell the people who live in Miramontes whether or not there are, whether they live well or not with this law...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u37	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u38	...which is in force. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Voting of the legislative text
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. After we have finished the debate on this bill, we shall proceed to the vote on it, to take it into consideration. We voted to take this bill into consideration. We vote. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, amending Law 2/2016, of 10 February, of the ground of Galicia, to promote certain actions for environmental improvement. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. Consequently, the consideration of this bill is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u40	Finished voting. Open the doors, please. We continue with point 2 of the agenda, which corresponds to appearances. Opinion of the Councillor for Culture and Tourism, on his own request, to report on the strategic plan of Xacobeo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u41	Mr. Román Rodríguez González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u42	Good morning, president and gentlemen. Since the beginning of the Jacobean tradition, eleven centuries ago, people from all over the world have arrived in Galicia, people from all over the world who brought with them their culture, their trade, their languages... and who had taken some of us with them. This differential fact, not very common in the Western world, has to a large extent defined culture and the being of Greek; it has made them an open people, plural, hospitable, proud of itself but always respectful of the ally. The Way has transmitted and still conveys brotherhood, solidarity, effort, collaboration, capacity for sacrifice, respect for diversity; a Way for which more than 300 thousand pilgrims from about one hundred and eighty countries arrive today in Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen, the Way is not only values, culture, history, pride — that is, and much — but also a socio-economic resource of first magnitude, an agent for economic dynamization of the municipalities and territories through which it passes. Let me share some data with you. Pilgrims in Galicia have an economic impact similar to 2.3 tourists; every euro spent by pilgrims generates 11% more product and nearly 20% more employment than a conventional tourist. Besides, it's a rural development dynamization agent, consolidating population in our municipalities and attenuating the demographic decline, which, as you know, is one of the great challenges of our time. Ultimately, the Jacobean routes, starting from a strong Christian and humanist root, point to differentiation, sustainability, competitiveness, external projection and very proud. And, no doubt, they made Galicia a destination, a place, unique in the world. To this great courage that has historically brought us the Way to the Greeks, Galicia, we have added a new opportunity since 1993. Let's turn the tradition of the Holy Year into a great celebration of the best of our culture and of the whole of the country. We create an event of global transcendence, an opportunity to foster tourism and promote our culture, generate wealth and employment and project our image around the world. This is justly, ladies and gentlemen, the Jacob: an exceptional opportunity we must take advantage of. From the opposition you usually say that we think Jacobbeo is the philosophical stone that will serve to overcome all the problems in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that we have great challenges as society beyond Jacob, challenges in which, by the way, we work every day to be able to overcome them. But we're also very aware of the huge opportunity that the next Xacobeo cycle entails, that you deny and despise in your statements. For this reason, we have been preparing ourselves since the beginning of the legislation: planning and working with an unprecedented advance; making a great effort to coordinate with civil society and administrations, both locally, with other autonomys, national and international; working with the horizon not only in the year 2021, but also in the next Xacobeo cycle that accompanies; ultimately, in the next decade. Ladies and gentlemen, today I come to this House to present to you the Xacobeo 2021 Strategic Plan, a plan that will be the roadmap of all programming and activity for the coming years, which will determine where we want to go and, above all, the path we want to follow. This plan was presented in July before the organizing commission; a body which, of course, requested its drafting. And that same week we present it to society as well. As our commitment has been, I now come to this House to present it, with an objective, to answer four main questions: how has this strategic plan been based?, what are the values, principles and challenges it sets?, what are the transversal axes of the project?, and finally, how is programming structured? This strategic plan is the result of a long participatory process involving more than six hundred people, eight months of work and hundreds of personal surveys and interviews with young people under the age of thirty, professionals and specialists, experts and representatives of the different spheres of society, and, of course, pilgrims. Some pilgrims tell us, ladies and gentlemen, that 98.76% of the respondents recommend doing the Way, and point to the experience with a 9.58 note. It is difficult to find in the world, ladies and gentlemen, another experience with a similar level of approval. The result of this process of analysis and participation is the deep diagnosis that serves as the basis for the drafting of the plan. I would like to highlight the paragraph in which we are determining aspects to improve with respect to previous Jacobs, and the one who asks about the things that we must keep for the future. In both sections, four aspects are highlighted: the involvement of the population — the involvement of the population — the territorial decentralization of the event, the destabilization of programming and the management of the year 2021, with Xacobeo 2027 on the horizon, to prevent it from being a flower of a day. In short, society demands participation, decentralization and sustainability; something which, on the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, does not surprise us. As I shared with you in this House in my first appearance -- by the way, almost a year ago -- we looked at these principles, some of the priority axes to work on Jacobe programming. Based on this diagnosis, the document develops ten strategic values and ten management principles, and sets its goals through a series of challenges. Strategic values inspire the whole project, they are the essence of which is spoken so often and reflect the spirit of the Jacobean values: hospitality, sustainability, innovation, integration, multiculturality, etc. I believe that there is a great consensus on this point, so I will not suffice much more in these principles. The principles of management are the concepts that must inspire and direct our work, which tell us not so much what we should do, but how we should do it. Let me quote them, because they are the backbone of all our work: participation, decentralization, equality, cross-cutting, quality, sustainability, internationalization, local talent, accessibility and unseasonalization. Once the principles and values are ordered, the plan marks the targets through a series of challenges. It proposes to work for a Xacobeo 2021 focused on the participation of the Greeks; to project the image of Galicia abroad; to guarantee the sustainability of the Way, that is, to leave a better way in environmental, social and economic terms; to encourage it with respect to tradition and its historical and cultural essence; to make the pilgrims ambassadors of Galicia and establish a lasting link with them; to offer an experience based on the Jacobean culture and improve Galicia's perception as a destination; to highlight local talent and to increase the footprint in the territory, generating sustainable development opportunities, especially in the rural environment. I think, ladies, it's hard to get a better definition of what a Jacobo must be. Once you define vision and values, the plan develops the structure of public action and also the transversal axis that supports it. It's founded on two transversal axes and on a security program. Transverse axes are the received axis and the supported axis. She welcomes you. In this, the protagonist will be the Town Hall of Santiago, corresponds to the same leader of this project. By the way, we welcome a good line of collaboration and understanding in this case with the Town Hall of Santiago. This support is materialized through different programs, driven in this case by the Galician Union. As for the welcoming axis, as I said, which is led by the Town Hall of Santiago, it will count on the collaboration and support of the Galician Union. It will focus on the capacity of the city of Compostela to host the thousands, the hundreds of thousands, the millions who will undoubtedly reach Santiago this year, we also think that in the years before and after. And although no one doubts that one of the basic principles of Jacob is to decentralize its impact on the whole territory, no one else escapes from the fact that Santiago, as a goal of pilgrimages, has a capital importance, a strategic importance, throughout the project. Here we're talking about issues related to internal mobility, security, cleaning and other similar issues. The support axis seeks to reach a path that is more sustainable. Their goal is to end the year 2021; that the Way is, by the end of the year 2021, in better conditions than it is today. This axis includes several specific plans driven by the Galician Board: Road Maintenance Plan, Signalling Plan, Landmarking Plan and Landscape Integration, BIC Plan and Hostel Plan. The first of the plans collected on this axis is the Santiago Road Maintenance Plan, which has already been, by the way, auctioned and adjudicated and will begin to run immediately. This plan has the greatest investment in history for the conservation and maintenance of roads, understood in this case as infrastructure and physical equipment. We speak of 15.6 million euros that will reach 121 municipalities and extend over 1,500 kilometers, on all the Jacobean routes of Galicia. There are eight maintenance contracts, which include monitoring actions, attention to the incidences and regular maintenance of the trace, preserving the heritage values and the safety of the pilgrim. In addition to this plan, we are developing the Road Signing Plan, in this case according to the roadmap marked by the Road Director Plan. Last year he took his turn on the Portuguese Way and on the Portuguese coast. This same year we are investing 3 million euros in the packaging and signaling of the Silver Way. Precisely, ladies and gentlemen, I've just had a very successful meeting with the Andalusian Culture Councillor. We agreed to drive a battery of measures to make this path known to society, to enhance this path in society, to improve signaling and tracing and to carry out joint cultural actions. And next year we'll close this signaling plan with the last pending route, in this case the Winter Road. The total investment in this plan has surpassed 12 million euros, and will leave all traces of Route Xacobea signalled, ensuring a good experience for pilgrims and, above all, their security. All the traces, all the municipalities, all the places, except one in Galicia. Certainly, the mayor of Vigo — let me quote here — likes to assume — and usually does — that thanks to him and his political action Vigo is unique in the world. It turns out that it is true, it turns out that in this particular case it is true. Thanks to him, or because of him, Vigo is the only place in the world, the only county in the world, where the Way is not signaled; and it is not signaled because it blocks its signaling. I hope you don't mind the pilgrims and I also hope you don't want them lost in your beautiful city. But, in any case, if we have to say that Vigo, in this case, is unique in this matter. Within this cross-sectional axis we also want to develop the plan of beautification of the path itself, with an objective: that the Jacobean routes show the best face of Galicia, both for the Greeks themselves and for the hundreds of thousands of pilgrims from all over the world who will visit us in the coming years. In this sense, we have recently approved a project, in collaboration with the Juana de Vega Foundation, consisting of the elimination of elements that damage the landscape, the landscape of the roads, with the advice, in this case, of specialists of the Galician Landscape School. This initiative will enhance and enhance the landscape and heritage of the different routes. It will also serve as a pilot experience for the future beautification plan and set out intervention criteria and methodologies in this area. In the near future, ladies and gentlemen, we will have the results of this innovative action. We also included within this axis the BIC Plan of the Santiago Way. We are facing an ambitious project, a project to restore and rehabilitate cultural interest goods on the Way. This project has already been submitted to the State Government. We demand an investment of approximately EUR 100 million from it, and this is an example of the value of our unique resources and the protection of our cultural heritage as a living and accessible resource. This plan, of course, will continue to the great interventions already promoted by the Council of Galicia in monasteries such as that of Oseira, that of Sobrado; in the cathedrals of Mondoñedo or Lugo; in the wall of Lugo itself and also, of course, in dozens of small churches and monuments. And, of course, in the cathedral of Santiago, where the greatest reform of our recent history is taking place. We hope, ladies and gentlemen - and we ask you - that your comrades in Madrid put aside their personal and partisan interests, unravel the current situation and support this plan. Finally, the hostel plan. I want to take advantage of my presence in this House to present a new plan within this cross-sectional axis. I want to announce that in the next few months we will launch the hostel plan, a new hostel plan. This is an initiative that seeks to strengthen the network of public hostels in Galicia City; a network that has more than seventy establishments and 3,200 squares in all routes, covering 1,500 kilometres of the Way, which is essential in welcoming the pilgrim, based on hospitality and Jacobean values. The new plan has an budget of more than seven million euros and is born with a double objective. On the one hand, to improve the public network of hostels by performing small maintenance and conservation actions in a large number of establishments. And on the other hand, the expansion and creation of new shelters taking into account the needs of accommodation in certain areas. I would like to highlight the criteria for building new hostels in this plan. We prioritize the new routes, those with smaller infrastructures, providing housing to decentralise and promote decentralization of pilgrimages. We also pay special attention to cities to decentralize the positive impacts of Xacobeo. And we're trying to avoid the construction of new buildings, giving priority to the restoration of historic buildings of our cultural heritage. This very week, next Thursday, we will raise to the board of board the new hostel plan. In the same way, the locations of the new establishments will be established. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, a new plan that comes to give a definitive boost to the network of hostels, which is a very significant part of the essence of the hospitality of the Way of Santiago and which gives a very good picture to the pilgrims who come to Galicia. [[Applause]] On this line, I also want to put into your knowledge that almost immediately will begin the works of the Vigo hostel. We already have all the permissions. He's adjudicated. We're in front of a building in the historical heart of the city in Berbes. We'll invest more than a million euros and start the works immediately. In the city of Pontevedra we are expanding the existing hostel, with an investment of around 200,000 euros, which will allow to increase the offer of this hostel in 48 squares. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, of these two transversal axes, welcomed and supported, the Strategic Plan also presents a programme of actions for the assessment of risks and safety; a programme which will involve different sectors, organizations and administrations and will focus on specific areas as an action plan for the means of civil protection for the support of the pilgrim; coordination in large pilgrimages and concentrations; the safety plan for pilgrims etc. Once the strategic challenges and transversal axes are defined, the plan develops the heart of Xacobeo, the programming. So we started by building a three-axis structure and six action programs. The extensive programming will run on three central axes that mark the central motivation of the project: people. The whole project, as it couldn't be otherwise, starts and ends in people, with the spirit -- you'll have heard me say more — to build the best Galician to live, which is also the best Galician to visit. The second is the essence of the Way itself. Over the years, the Jacobean has crossed the Way and it is already a celebration that extends throughout Galicia, but we must never forget its original meaning. For this reason, much of the actions will focus on the physical realm of the Way and also on the empowerment of its essential traditional, historical and spiritual values. Finally, celebration itself is an opportunity to bring Galicia the best exhibitions of art, culture, spectacle, from all over the world, but also to show Galicia's best world. Always in a respectful manner with the historical meaning of the Way and the humanistic value of Jacobic culture. On these three axes six programmatic paragraphs will be developed which will be collected in each of the programming actions. Jacobeo's unique. In this paragraph, religious and institutional activities taking place within the framework of the Holy Year are multiplied. Xacobeo experiences. Activities focused on creating unique cultural and tourist experiences, taking advantage of our endogenous resources: landscape, heritage, gastronomy... Xacobeo citizenship. Actions driven by collaboration with the associative tissue, especially with the associations of the Way. James thought it over. Focused on activities related to knowledge, academia, research... Xacobeo innovation. It will promote innovative experiences and the use of technologies for potential. And Xacobeo community. Participation actions that cohesive the Galician society and directly respond to its interests, on the line set in programs like your Xacobeo. Within this great structure, the entire programming of Xacobeo 2021 will be developed, a programming I have already announced that we will present before the end of the year, but that it is not born here, but that we have been working on it for some time, ladies and gentlemen, we have been developing actions in order to prepare ourselves for the year 2021. Programs like your Xacobeo, the greatest open call for projects in our history, were undoubtedly an unprecedented success of participation. 650 projects have been introduced, driven by non-profit associations, collectives, companies, local entities, which show that Jacob is not only important to this government - which is, and much - but that the whole of Galician society understands it in a positive way and wants to participate in it. The reception was so big that we had to make an increase in credit and doubling -- more than double -- the initial funding to be able to approve more projects. Finally, we have reached funding of nearly 5 million euros that finance 352 projects, many of which are already starting to run. We are undoubtedly with your Jacob in the face of one of the best examples of citizen participation, of civil society, in the Jacobean programming. Finally, we're faced with an action that wants to build part of the programming from bottom to top. [[Applause]] They've also been a great success, a huge success, the two editions of The Sound of the Way. This is a festival that enjoyed an extraordinary welcome among the public, with more than 50 percent outside Galician attendees. They passed these two editions, through the Mountain of Joy, about 200,000 people at different shows. He had, as his lords know, a huge national and international impact, putting Galicia on the map of the big festivals. He also promoted local talent -- 25% of the participating groups were Germans -- and left a very important economic return, which made up for their investment. In the field of infrastructure we also started working. Within them, we can highlight the integral rehabilitation of the macrocomplex of Monte do Gozo, which will soon be completed. We're making an integral recovery in the Mountain of Joy with the aim of remodeling this space, adapting it to current needs and making it a reference, as well as cultural equipment as within the way. This project has been underway since 2016, and it has involved and is involving major changes in packaging, restoration and improvement in the area. During this year, during the last few years, there have been improvements in landscaping, lighting, driving leisure areas, as well as road conditioning and the reorganization of traffic. Very soon, ladies and gentlemen, the second enlargement of the auditorium will take place, from the 33,000 current squares to more than 40,000; at least a minimum of 40,000 squares. A reform that will allow to meet the requirements for the reinforcement of the greatest international artists. And finally, this year we will finish the Monte do Gozo project with the last two actions. First, the development of the agreement signed with Aspanaes for the creation of a new healthcare and tourism centre for people with TEA. An agreement supported with EUR 800,000 to provide the building with the necessary conditions and equipment for this collective. This will enable infrastructure for stays and camps as well as for a therapeutic center. [[Applause]] The second is the bidding of the creation project of a winter garden, populated with species all over the world and with a surface of about 100,000 square meters. We're in front of a new area of recreation which, in turn, will be a top-level tourist resource, with broad educational potential. Ladies and gentlemen, in all the programming we want to develop, the participation of civil society will be crucial; a targeted participation, in this case, through the sponsorship system. We are holding dozens of meetings with potential sponsors, of which we will soon be able to make important announcements. We must point out that we have already closed the first great agreement, in this case with Estrella Galicia, which has so far signed the greatest sponsorship of the history of Xacobeo: almost six million euros. And very soon - as I said - we will have the opportunity to present significant news on this matter. We also have other important projects in place for the promotion of Xacobeo and the Holy Year, in this case of an audiovisual character. They're going to start -- they've, in fact, started -- the work for the recording of the three-way audiovisual project. This is a proposal funded through a specific grant line, with a public contribution, for a total of 6 million, 1.5 million. It's led by a Catalan company composteslana, Fictions-Productions, which co-produces with different foreign companies. And, above all, that will be distributed around the world by the Amazon Prime platform, one of the world's major television platforms, and it also counts on Beta's participation in this case, which is one of the major European broadcasters, based in Germany. We are facing the first international series of Atresmedia on Santiago's Way, which, no doubt, is a unique opportunity to get to know the Way, Galicia, all over the world. We also contribute as a novelty, and under the help of Xacobeo, a call to encourage tourism meetings. We all know that meeting tourism has a very important return to local communities in which it takes place. For this reason, in the coming days, an order of €500,000 will be issued for organizing organizations of congresses, seminars, conventions or any other event that can be held in Galicia, with the plus added to the celebration of Xacobeo. Large companies, universities, associations, will have a tool that facilitates, supports, holding events, congresses and large meetings, in this case in Galicia. We also consider the promotion of quality as a priority, both in the routes itself and in all the shelters and infrastructures of the Way, so we have just signed a collaboration agreement with the Institute for Tourism Quality of Spain, to facilitate that the establishments and shelters of the Way can believe their quality in the attention of pilgrims, and to ensure that quality bets are also materialized in the singular public spaces and in the establishment of the Jacobean route, also extending this action to the spaces located in the wine fields. This initiative is financed by EUR 250,000 and is committed to the quality and professionalization of the Way's establishments. Of course, we will also carry out an intense cultural and exhibition programming that will begin with the opening of the Galician exhibition, a story in the world, which has already been presented, which will be inaugurated in November this year, and which is the first of a trio of exhibitions to be held with a conductor thread in 2019, 2020 and 2021. As we have already said, the main programming of Xacobeo 2021 will be presented to all of you and to the Galician society at the end of this year 2019, in an act in which we will present -- by the way, a year before the start of Xacobeo -- the great programming milestones for 2020, 2021 and so on. And all of this, of course, without prejudice to the hundreds - I would tell you, even thousands - of initiatives that will arise, many of them under the Xacobeo program, but many also driven by local administrations themselves, by other institutions, by social groups, foundations, associations, etc., that we are sure they will join this great collective and country project. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of the main figures we are handling within the framework of this strategic plan. During the past years 2017 and 2018 we have already made investments worth more than thirty-three million euros, which shows our commitment to the next Xacobeo. So, and even though Plan Xacobeo 2021 is a living document, subject to new contributions and changes, it is originally born supported by an autonomous budget of EUR 247 million, with an endowment reaching until 2022. We are talking about exclusive autonomous funding from all the councils of the Galician Union in this case; with a framework of action 2019-2022, according to the criteria of sustainability and sustainability in Xacobeo itself. By comparing this investment with the last Xacobeo, the 2010 increase is very remarkable, but the real difference, ladies and gentlemen, is that this plan is thought to be three years, with vision of the future and country vision, by which the investment triples, reaching up to EUR 247 million. It is important to highlight - as I have already said - that we are talking only about contributions from the Galician Union, but I am sure that commitments from other administrations will be incorporated, sooner or later. We expect the Government of the State to be consistent with the importance of Xacobeo and to make important investments, especially in infrastructure and road safety, in addition, of course, the BIC Plan. And we're also sure that municipalities, deputies and all the administrations involved will contribute and put their degree of sand into this great project of the future and of the country. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with an extensive and ambitious strategic plan, which stands in stark contrast to what was done in 2010 because of the inaction at that time of the Bipartisan Government, which forced the Galician Union to make practically an emergency Jacobean. All this planning and work, ladies and gentlemen, will allow us to take advantage of the great opportunity that Jacob means. The figures speak for themselves. According to economic impact estimates, Xacobeo 2021 will boost our economy by about 1% of our GDP, an increase of about 1% of GDP. Also in the job if you estimate a growth of around 11,500 jobs. We will exceed half a million pilgrims accredited to Compostela in the year 2021, and of them, the vast majority, 75%, will be foreign. This data reveals, beyond the intangible variables, the enormous opportunity they represent in strictly economic and employment terms, which means opening up an agenda of hope and development for the next decade. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with the most extensive and ambitious strategic plan that has ever developed for a Jacobean; an instrument that emerges from the participation of the whole society and poses, black on white, the main challenges we have to face. With this plan in hand, I would like to invite you together today to take advantage of the opportunity it entails for Galicia, with vision of the future and country vision; to which we work for a more sustainable, innovative and competitive Galicia; a Galicia hospital, committed to its people and its territory; a Galicia Jacob; a Galicia quality, from which we feel proud as a people and as a country; a Galicia with present and future, with ambition but with feet on the ground, who looks at the future with certainty, who does not give up anything, who feels more than anyone but no less, and who has in James's Xacobeo and the Way his main letter of presentation in the world. He is, ladies and gentlemen, in our hands and I hope so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u43	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. [[Pause.]] Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. Welcome to this new session. And a special welcome to Xoan Jupiter, the new Member. The government says this is a strategic plan. I don't know if the ladies had time to read this report that brought us to mid-August, but, in fact, I saw a lot of strategic plans in my life, and in this -- after reading those ninety-foot pages -- I wonder where the concrete and evaluable targets are, where are the plans of action and budgets broken down for each of the plans that make it possible to reach the targets. I, in truth, did not see them, do not appear in this propaganda booklet; a brochure full of good intentions, common places, obscurities, etc. Euphemistically speaking of strategic challenges, management principles, performance programs etc.; pure literature of good intentions without concretion none. In his intervention this morning, the adviser mentioned some specific gesture, the immediate and timely ones that appear in the referenced document of the past, without specifying deadlines or budgets; but these are milestones, they are not strategic targets. He then mentioned others who do not appear in the so-called Strategic Plan, the last ones he mentioned now; for example, the economic objective of achieving an increase in GDP of 1% — if it would be a strategic goal — does not appear in the whole document. The truth is that by making an account, if the Government says it will invest 247 million euros in this plan and it intends that with these 247 million public contributions, but all that would be the private contribution, the consumption of goods and services and all the impacts that should have on all kinds of tourism, cultural industry, etc. To evaluate all this impact in 600 million euros — which is about 650, 1% of Galicia's GDP — by investing 247 million euros public, because the truth — although I say it does not appear anywhere in the document, seems quite a small target. And what's the problem with not really having a strategic plan? So what you do is you start developing isolated tapes that you don't know what target they're framed in, which line of action, which part of the budget of that line of action has that particular milestone. And that's why all of this can end up in wasted performances, air shots and public money spills. Then it becomes semantic too. Now there are no threats and weaknesses, now they are called limitations; in Galicia there are no weaknesses, there are delimitations. And we continue — I say — with their euphemisms in this leaflet. Among the weaknesses — because we have to speak as we speak in strategic plans — is explicitly cited a very concrete one; the Jacobean generates high expectations. In the collective imagination there are aspects such as becoming an economic revolution for Galicia, its ability to correct historical deficiencies, the immensity of cultural programming, etc., which could have a counterproductive effect. In other words, the citizenship considers Xacobeo an opportunity to be an economic revolutionary in Galicia and to correct historical deficiencies is a weakness, according to the Government. But, in contrast, they then quote as an opportunity—they call it facilitating aspects in this booklet—textually: "In short, the next Xacobeo will be celebrated, but conceived also as an opportunity to trace the path of Galicia for the next decade"—if this is not ambition!—. And they also say, "Jacobeo and the Way are exceptional vehicles for the value of Galicia abroad. Well, get in the way. On the one hand, they say it's a weakness, it's not going to be that people think that Xacobeo is going to be a historic opportunity, and then they say it's a historic opportunity. And they say he's going to value Galicia abroad, but in what value? How are you gonna get it? By what means, broken up by games? What are the concrete goals? How will they be evaluated? Because if there are no concrete targets, it's impossible to evaluate their development, which is what the Government wants. If, as they say, 248 million euros of public investment are going to be invested — yes, they do put it on the half-page, without any kind of breakdown — as Greek citizenship will not think that Xacobeo has to be a social revolution? How can a weakness be an economic and cultural revolutionary? So, what is Jacob?, a party? A rather expensive party, almost as expensive as the defeat and the dilapidation of the City of Culture. Then they also say in the previous assessment: "The pilgrims and pilgrims are our best ambassadors. 98.76 per cent..." — as mentioned by the advisor— "of those who have been investigated claim that they would recommend making the Way of Santiago." Is this a goal? Just make Santiago's Way? Really, what a childish objective, having that huge volume of possible prescriptors! They include economic impact objectives — none — in the municipalities where the Road passes, in the export of cultural goods, in the export of agri-food products, in the quality and profitability of tourism, in the improvement of working conditions for workers in the tourism sector induced by the increase in business income. They generate opportunities in the cultural industry, potential to generate exchange and dialogue between Greek and foreign cultural companies. And how will it be done? With what economic volume? What target countries? In the tourism industry they mention an opportunity: "You can create tourist products that are not seasonal in nature through the way" — point. What products? How did they get promoted? With what concrete budgets? There is no reference to the digital world. We're not talking about mentions, notoriety on social networks... are we planning goals on this line? Would it not be logical to propose concrete objectives of Galician notoriety based on an event of these characteristics? And let's no longer say science or innovation goals, they don't appear in the whole document. Accessibility targets, too, what, how are they going to fund? We also find it very regrettable that there is not a line dedicated to animal welfare, after the initiative of the Protecting Association of Road Animals, presented in this Parliament by this Member, and supported by thousands of pilgrims and citizens of Galicia, who warned that hundreds of dogs follow pilgrims along the Way and when they arrive in Galicia are disoriented and lost, saturating the possibilities of this and other protectors. Do you plan on supporting them? They also say in the booklet: "The sustainability and survival of the values of the Way must be guaranteed" — point. How? Will the autochthonous forest strips be implemented along the banks of the Way, as has been approved in this Parliament? How many miles? Where? Which species? With what budget? This is what would be a strategic plan. Another opportunity they mention: "The Way of Santiago is an example of how rural population fixation actions can be implemented, generating new support activities for the people who live abroad." Perfect, but what activities? How did they get promoted? With what concrete budgets? And I'm sorry it's repetitive, but this is what a strategic plan should be.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u45	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u46	A minute and a half is left for me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u47	That's why I say "go."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u48	Sustainable energy and environmentally. Are you going to work on independence and energy efficiency in the Road Hostels? That would be a concrete goal. In how many, with what budget? And we're not talking anymore about participation, how to present the plan in mid-August here in Parliament, a day when the president had already presented it in the morning and the date was already set for his public presentation, already published, already edited, etc. Pilgrims — it is true — make a very positive assessment of this experience. But do we really take advantage of that assessment? Do we take advantage of those prescriptors? It's as if a company has an enormous valuation on the market and then it doesn't produce products to benefit from that valuation. Then they say how strong it has been since 1993 that it has worked to improve the signaling of the Way, with a more obvious result. But then, in the same brochure, surprisingly, they say that only 15% of the respondents positively value the road signage and only 8% positively value the road conservation state. This does not surprise us, considering the damage of wind farms in Mondoñedo, in Oribio, etc. In short, Mr. Counsellor, work on a real strategic plan that lays the groundwork for Galicia to really, socially, economically and culturally benefit from this event. I don't know if what happens -- because this booklet is really a joke, this booklet called strategic plan -- it's that this outcome is voluntary because they don't want to leave work done to the next government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u49	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u50	...from Unity of Galicia, where you will not be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u51	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u52	Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, Counselor. Well, you didn't, so I'll do it. I'm going to explain briefly how we got here, how we got to this debate, because you did one of those selective memory exercises that they usually do in the People's Party and you forgot to tell us a part of this story. And to me it seems relevant that it remains in the Journal of Sessions, that it is known to everyone who can be listening to us, because it is what really reflects, which anticipates that we are in front of a plan that is already born of itself as a wet paper and which shows that, once again, we are in an exercise of propaganda of their government, which has no project, has no model for the Jacobean, has no country project, and what is worse, has no desire for dialogue, with this opposition, with society, or with anyone who has an alternative or who thinks differently than you, Counselor. Today he came here to sell many fireworks, and I want to do something of memory. Last year, at the state debate of the nation, Mr. Nuñez Feijóo committed himself to this House to the revolution with Plan Xacobeo. First, it will be the great solution to the economic problems of this country, and secondly, you would start the participatory process, after the invention of democracy, the largest on planet Earth. But the truth is, in the end, by balancing, reality has surpassed fiction, because it has to be said that we are cautious, we have been suspicious of our role in opposition and from the experience of our relationship with the German Government, but you always surprise us for harm, Mr. Román Rodríguez, and ultimately the fact is that this participatory process, as everything seems to indicate, has become a fraud, a mere plot to make what they do. I want to remind you of that question because you have called us to parliamentary groups to have a series of meetings within the framework of this Xacobeo strategy. We, at the repeated meetings, made our disposition, the constructive will to add, although we also made it clear that the procedure did not seem the most appropriate to us. First, because we kept talking about generalities. It's quite difficult without the diagnosis, without the data that you expose and which the editorial company of this program allegedly collected, without all that information, right to contribute positively. We also mistrusted that this House has a regulation, it has some mechanisms to process plans on a regular basis. You rarely use them, but they exist, they are there, and they can be used, so we insisted that it didn't seem right. But, in any case, it's legitimate, you wanted to do it in one way or another, and we accept that you have the majority and that was the framework we could collaborate on. Now, that majority is no excuse for taking the hair to the groups of this opposition, which represent the Greeks and the Greeks who exaggerate and deserve responsibility. And it was that responsibility that led us, first, to bring us closer together in a positive way, and then, when you wanted to take our hair off, to demarcate us from that matter. I want to remember here, as Mr. Casal did earlier, that you called us to a working meeting when this plan was already drafted, it was already printed and we were already called for public presentation. So, man, this is like you're told that you've got a chance to go back to school on an exam and you've already got the note-book signed. It's a coat of hair, Mr. Rodríguez, and, of course, we wanted it to be recorded because we think it's a bad precedent and we deserve more respect, frankly. And then this was an important talk of what the plan would give you. You spoke here of ambitious strategic plan, the best in history, etc., just as you told us. Now, I'm the first question I wanted to ask you is where the plan is, because, of course, what happened to us, this is hanging on the specific website of Xacobeo -- by the way, only in Spanish, less bad than at least the Galician Tourism Agency if you hung it in Welsh -- of course, we think that this is not worth these EUR 66,000, because it's a set of desires, of unmet promises, other plans, and generalities. You've given some more, but of course I'm not a proper roadmap. And I'm going to stop pointing out some of those issues that we don't think are a good starting point. First -- this question has come out here -- you give data, economic data. It doesn't matter what advice we're talking about, what plan we're talking about, they never come up with an economic memory, a calendar of budgets. So we're in a political context where in the morning we're being told that the apotheaeosis comes, that we're not going to have budgets from the Galician Union, that we're not going to have 700 million in our public accounts, and then in the afternoon they tell us that they're going to spend 247 million euros on the matter of Xacobeo, regardless of other social priorities, without further explanation or realization. And that, of course, is quite unserious. The same little serious is that this plan literally cites three other plans that the Galician Union has, which of course you are quite prolific in paring word, PDF and power point, that you have to recognize it, but it's the evidence that they haven't done them. Plan director of the Santiago Road. We said, in fact, all the time: we will have to make a calendar and a balance of what issues have been developed and what questions are not, not a summaries of plans. The same applies to the 2020 Tourism Agency, where, by the way, Parliament's groups were not able to participate. And the same thing about that newborn, after years of delay, is the strategy of the Greek culture by 2021. So there's no timing, there's no priority, what there's a bank of unmet promises that you keep repeating, what shows you're coming up with your duties without doing about your own duties. An example. You have repeatedly insisted on the issue of the hostel network. Either I was ill-planned about everything I came from the Santiago Road Management Plan, or you're doing your homework late. The truth is, if in ten years we have been unable to move forward on this issue, we have little confidence in the future. As with other measures we have discussed in this Parliament on their need and which continue to be pending, such as everything related to the safety of the Portuguese Way, such as the delimitation of once every road, as issues which came here by 2020, by March, issues concerning the winter road, when the Association of the Winter Road, Valdeorras, has been claiming for years, claiming a number of improvements, which shows that you are late. And they come late, especially for a question. Because you, in this matter, have neither the will nor the will to agree with other agents, is constant, politically, with the local, underfunded entities in this country. You won't be able to say that you put 247 million and then the local entities who get to put more, as they are in our country. We are also aware of the continuing problems in the field of Members and in the field of local associations in key issues such as the primitive way or as other matters. In any case, what we're most concerned about is that there are aspects that appear gathered in brief, brief, diagnosed that move us in this plan, at least in what is public, but they don't seem to have the will to suppose a change. For example, here comes the question of massification as the limiting aspect of number 8, when you constantly denied that there was a risk and a problem of massification; but they don't tell us how they're going to solve it. There is also another insistence and another approach to the Galician Nationalist Block, a recurring theme in the tourist shows: that there is a need for a reinforcement of this country's inspection. Pick it up as a weakness, but then there's no alternative to what the roadmap is going to be for that inspection to exist in a powerful way. Similarly, questions are called, some of them interesting, like there was an economic constraint in the cultural industry of this country. You're the advisor in charge of Culture, and his advice doesn't compromise his government on a shock plan so that our culture will recover the decade of cuts he's had with you. And so a long et cetera. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u53	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u54	Basically, they just put words that look good. If you do a [...] word, it's going to be supercosmetic, it's going to look great. So, you put on "Girl Galiza" and you stay so wide; then, the youth policy of this country goes as it goes. Then they put "sustainability," but there's not a single alternative to how to follow this issue in the territory and how to deal with the problems of sustainability. The same with gender equality. You put on the plan that gender equality is very important, but then the plan isn't even written with a non-sexist language, nor is there just one proposal about it, but they're so wide. And we're also concerned about the ideological background on which this plan is built, because there are fundamental differences. For example, we insist that the Way of Santiago, the Jacobean, has to be a differential and own fact, Greek, that puts us in the world in a globalized context. Here comes the minister in the summer saying that this is going to be a fundamental element of the Spanish brand and the Galician Union says nothing. And what he says in the plan is, firstly, "Let's solve the crisis of the European Union and of the European institutions with the Way of Santiago. Home!, Mr. Rodríguez, the European institutions are in crisis because of the impact they have on the working class in Wales their neoliberal policies, and we're not going to fix it with the Xacobeo Way. We're not going to fix that great concern that you have because, even though about 40% of people do for spiritual and religious reasons the Santiago Way, you say that you have to take care of that, that they are extremely worried because that religious approach is at the expense of that. Hey! This will be an occupation of the Catholic Church of this country, which does not pay even the IBI, but not of the Galician Union! Of course, if they intend to promote religiousism with our taxes, we say no, just as we say not to a lot of... [[Applause]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u55	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u56	...inconcretions, vagueities and generalities of this plan, with which I will continue on the next shift. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u57	Thank you. Joint Left Group, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Mr. Counselor of the Great James, in supermegamaicapscules, and of the culture in flea, the smallest there is. The Greek cultural ecosystem lives in the weather, this to begin with. To continue, say -- if you want to hear me, please -- that your vision has serious errors in concept, very serious. Since the 1990s, cultural itineraries represent a very important qualitative change in the conservation and use of heritage. Little by little, this concept is expanding and then monuments are not regarded as isolated issues, but as heritage categories of issues such as, for example, historical populations, landscapes. Conceptual debate is important at the general level. It opened right after the statement by the Unesco of the Way of Santiago as a World Heritage Site in 1993. Already Icomos, as an international UN advisory body, wanted to establish a body of unique and well-defined concepts. This is the general framework, but you present a strategic plan, and I agree with the BNG partner in the group consultation process: it was a farce, really. The Mark of the Way of Santiago is consolidated, Counselor. A strategic plan must be based on policies to protect our cultural, landscape and environmental wealth. Push multifunctional strategies to the prol for an active storage that really guarantees sustainability. We're glad that you're working so hard on Xacobeo, we'd like you to work more for the signs of identity and for the Greek cultural ecosystem, but good. We are also pleased that you have incorporated some suggestions made, for example, by colleagues and colleagues of the Open Compostela, who have made a great deal of ends up on the issue of decentralization and deseasonation. And the important thing about all this is that it generates stable and quality jobs. Of course it's a lot of money, of course it can generate a lot of work! The question is, not all tourists come only in the Jacobean years. But there's a contradiction. You stop talking about 2021, 2026 and 2032. We want visitors to come in a decentralised way, in a truly rational and sustainable way. We must avoid the massive impact, and the Union is doing the opposite at times. We want to draw attention to essential measures to take forward this plan, one is the issue of the Touro mine. The Touro mine is seriously affecting the Way. The Touro mine, in addition to its considerations from the geophysical perspective, clearly tells us that the toxic reliefs achieved in the environment are a curse for the future and the present also because it would not withstand floods or earthquakes. In addition to this, important or relevant in the fight against megaminery, it is incredible that you are going to defend this megalominary project knowing that the French Way, for example, may be in danger of loss of recognition as the heritage of humanity. If we lose the appreciation of humanity's heritage, goodbye!, goodbye! all this important business that we believe can have a good impact, but the model is very important. You say what and how, you don't say what, which is the political background. The impacts are denounced by Icomos, by this UN international advisory body: visual impacts, sound impacts, loss of identity values, which were those who valued their inclusion as a good heritage of humanity. The destruction of the historical stretch is evident. Of course, it's not understood that you say this: saying yes or no to the Touro mine depends solely on the general address. What you're getting out of here, Counsellor, is that the Greek administration has no competence or power over the possible exclusion of the Way as a world heritage. Then recapitulate about it. Of course, from our point of view, seeing all the expert reports, both at the heritage level and at the geophysical level, if the Touro mine project goes forward, the danger, the threat, is real. Another thing is Jacob and roads. You constantly pretend on the religious plane. The religious plan is respectable, but the religious plan, which attracts between 25% and 40% of visitors, has another impulse. If we listen to Gallego Jorreto, who is a very prestigious architect, he says, "The Way is all, life, the way to be, to see the world." This is important, not just from a religious point of view. And there's a need to discriminate between Xacobeo and discrimination between the roads. The integrity of the roads must be preserved, the authenticity of the itineraries, in a strict way. They boast about the mercantillization and privatization of our property, and we must avoid the spole. Of course, the French Way, which is the most promoted, which covers 70% of the total, crosses eleven municipalities, six of them with less than 2,000 inhabitants. Nine months ago, the Road Forum reported that there are many roads: English, affected by the wind; French, affected by the Touro mine; the primitive, with attacks of true barbarians, not of consciousness of that sustainable path, of a path that has to take care of the heritage, which takes care of the cultural, historical and landscape identity of the route. You're doing a cementation, you're cementing for people to come with slippers, what? What? The Way is something else, but it's outrageous and petty, Counselor, that the reality is distorted and that euphemisms are used as conditioning, positive improvement, recovery of our heritage, and real damage. A millennia road, which was not invented in a napkin, the councillor of Fraga, though he did, started there, in a napkin. Okay, it's all right, written in restaurants, it's a polo. His politics are very similar to Fraga's, very well, but we're in the 21st century, and in the 21st century... I care a lot about this, I believe in the defense of wealth. There's another aberration, something else we think is clear. Any defense of the Xacobeo goes through the immediate repeal of the law of the three wrongs. The law of the three errors: rehabilitation, regeneration and urban reform. We've brought our posture here and it's very clear, it's powerful. This law is an attack against the Galician Heritage Act, against the Spanish Historical Heritage Act, against the Constitution itself in Article 46, against the European guidelines. They reject the special plan, which was made by point by all, and disregard their fundamental obligation, which is to care for the common heritage. Besides, you didn't show up when this matter was dealt with. You don't understand silence, you don't understand censorship, you don't understand why the people of Heritage weren't here. Because Tourism is important, but we cannot delegate to Tourism issues that are of defence of our cultural heritage, which is so important. With regard to the hostel network, I think it's very good that shelters are created and that work as a marvel, but tell us why Make it range and cover the Anonymous Society of Management of Xacobeo for recurrent problems, open and inspection, without prescribing until the year 2021, derived from the business model in which the public company specializes. Our vision is clear. Please pay attention to the suggestions of Icomos; please repeal the law of the three wrongs, which has faces of unconstitutionality and even of spolian. Of course, they really take into account the sustainability, as a question that has been very determined, since 2017, at the international level. We'll continue on the second shift, which has been a long time to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Good morning, Counselor. I want to start where Mrs. Presas started, giving her all the reason she was saying. I won't tell you again because she told you extremely well, but I want to tell you, Counselor, that we, of course, disagree on how things are doing with the participation of the opposition. In the Rules of Procedure of the House there is an article, Article 142, which offers the possibility of analysing any Government project before it is adopted by the Council of the European Union, and which allows parliamentary groups to make resolutions and debate those resolutions. That's how it was done in 1993, Mr. Counsellor. That Xacobeo who started the People's Party in the Government was a Xacobeo of all because they all participated. Because it turns out that the whole opposition at that time knew and had in its hands more than six tons of documentation that provided the basis for all the plan that was made at that time. That's what we have to do, and so we did. We've been registering several initiatives of this content for some time now. We have to go through Article 142 and bring you here to the House, to analyze all the groups, all the documentation used, and that we can make resolutions and debate these resolutions. Because, if not, all you say is that you want opposition groups and society to participate as a whole, Counselor, is advertising and propaganda. How truth is advertising and propaganda this plan. The truth is, he's right. What would we discuss about a draft if it didn't exist? There was no draft, no plan. What did you want us to discuss? What you have to bring here is all the documentation and a really in condition plan, because this is extremely disappointing, Counselor. [[Applause]] Besides, I want to tell you something too and start with her. We don't despise Jacob, at all! You're trying to introduce this idea that the opposition -- in the case I represent, the socialists -- we despise Jacob. That's absolutely a lie, and you know it perfectly. He knows it by the mayors and presidents of socialists who are working with you, or who are trying to work with you, because there is no coordination plan with the councils and Deputies and you seem to have no intention of doing it because, of course, this plan is not. From that point of view, we're very concerned about the fact that Jacobobeo, the plan of Jacobobeo. They worry about us every year. We're worried about the Way, and that product of the Way, every year, and we're worried about the Xacobeo Year. But what we have before us, Counselor, is advertising and propaganda. I could give you a lot of examples, but I'm just going to give you one that really surprised me and a lot. As Mrs. Presas said, we still have our ability to surprise you. I don't know if all of your lordships remember that in May, after the elections, President Feijóo met with all of his Government to prepare Galicia for the future that was to be Jacob. Preparing Galicia for the future... to start the electoral campaign was what you were doing! At that meeting, President Feijóo said that Galicia of the future would be familiar, young, innovative and green. What do you think, gentlemen, that's written on page 45 of the plan? How does it have to be the Xacobeo of the future? Look where, he's familiar, young, innovative and green. Exactly the same campaign slogans of the People's Party. You forget about this, you forget about it! [[Applause]] You don't know where he's familiar, you don't know where he's young, you don't know where he's innovative -- very worrisome, because social networks aren't here and new technologies aren't here either -- and green, because he wants to be sustainable. How? We don't know. You will illustrate us at another time because we don't know what any of this is going to be like, beyond beautiful words that repeat, repeat and repeat. It's a burly partisan strategy, Counselor, if it wasn't tragic, because you've kept yourself a little more discreet on this occasion, but you're using Jacob as the only plan that they have to govern. They're using Xacobeo and they're saying it's the great hope for the future. Before it was the great hope for the year twenty-first, now it is the great hope until 2032. We can go on, decades after decades... Then give the idea and reflect, Counselor, the exhaustion of this Government. The exhaustion of a government that bases all its strategy, which bases all its hope and policy of social growth, economic growth and innovation in Jacob, and has no more. He has no industrial policy, he has no commercial policy, and he's trying to cover up with Xacobeo the lack of real achievements of President Feijóo's government in ten years now! They are trying to cover the gaps in social policy, economic policy, employment policy, health policy. The Xacobeo works like a smoke curtain and nothing else, while we're talking about millions and then we'll talk about this, too, and there's more and more millions here. The plan, in itself -- I told you -- is extremely disappointing in its configuration, but illustrative in some things that you say but don't deal with. It is illustrative of marking the serious problems of the Way and the Xacobeo, which are the real problems, the basic problems; that is, the infrastructures are in bad condition. 15.6% of the pilgrims who responded to an inquiry say they do not consider the information and signaling of the Way to be good. Only 12.6% consider housing positive; 8% are security status; 5% are services such as medical care; all the rest consider that these Road services are not in condition, and this is absolutely worrying, Counsellor, because that's where you have to work and where you've been working for ten years. It's not welcome that you come here to present a Road Maintenance Plan. What have they done so far? Don't do the maintenance of the Way; or do it the way you are in this picture, Counselor — if you want to see it —. It used to be a rural road, a road in condition, and what made Tourism that way? On an asphalt track. That's what you're doing with the Way, without preserving the heritage values of that Way. What about the services — and I don't have time —? Because another of the basics is the services given to pilgrims. Only 6% of the respondents consider these services to be good, starting with accessibility — which is not mentioned — security — that we are now starting a safety plan on the Road, now!, but what have we been doing before? — and medical services. Look, it really seems to me to chulo chulo or the drones carrying defibrillators, as Mr. Count said the other day. The truth is, it seems to me to be a modern idea, that will come out in every newspaper in the world; and as such, because we are original and have drones with defibrillators. But what do we do with the twist?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u61	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u62	Because, of course, pilgrims basically have problems with twisting, banging... what do we do? Because it turns out that the services of the municipalities where the Road passes are not implemented and there is no medical service plan on the Road. But, Counselor, where are we going? The shelters. Now we're going to make a hostel plan. But you yourself said what they did: in ten years they built twelve public hostels, they almost went out to one hostel per year. Is this the preparation? You're late, but very late, on the base and on the road infrastructure! Not to mention the problem of massification, which you denied, but 50% of the pilgrims consulted say it's a serious problem. How do you intend to solve that problem that didn't exist and that now exists? Will they encourage the use of the other roads or won't they? And we still have to talk about tourism, culture, the cultural model of you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u63	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u64	...and many other things I don't have time for, but some of them, important, I'll comment on in the next intervention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u66	Thank you, President. Good morning. Counsellor, nothing seems more appropriate to me than opening this new session with your appearance on the Strategic Plan of Xacobeo 2020-2021. Therefore, I thank you for the extensive exhibition you just held on an event that will put Galicia in the international focus in just over fifteen months, when on December 31, 2020 we saw the opening of the Holy Door. And don't worry about the interventions we've just heard from the opposition representatives, the Government of the People's Party is still riding! [[Applause]] Since the People's Party we are accustomed to having to face the emplacement of the Way of Santiago and organizing the Jacobs under the persistent reprobation and criticism of the opposition, of all oppositions. And it's funny, because the two-party government Galicia has suffered had its chance. They had, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party and Signors of the Galician Nationalist Block, their opportunity — Mrs. Presas — an exceptional opportunity to put in place their idea of the Way of Santiago, their idea of the Xacobeo; that model that said they didn't have the Government of the People's Party, and they could have acted with responsibility, but the councillor had to remember today in this House that you did nothing to organize the Xacobeo 2010, and had to be the Government of the People's Party who, in nine months, had organized a Xacobeo of emergency. You're always more critical than in action, and that disillusionment that they have shown makes manifest the scarce or no interest in one of the signs of identity of Galicia of the 21st century. I don't know if they're aware of the opportunity — as the councillor said — that for our community means the Way of Santiago. I don't think they're aware of the extent of the benefits that an event like the Xacobeo provides to the Greek people, although it's notorious and visible. It's contrasted! If you took a look at the Report of Economic Studies Services, for example, of BBVA, The impact of Xacobeo 2010 on the Greek economy, its conclusions are clear: between 5% and 6% of additional GDP growth and an increase of two tenths in 2011 GDP and one tenth in 2012, which allowed better behaviour of Galicia exactly at the time of the crisis. That's why, among other things, we don't understand their rejection and repetition of an easy speech, scourged by fake news and myths about the reality of Santiago's Way. You had a chance to be useful to Galicia, socialist gentlemen and rulers of the Galician Nationalist Block, but you've preferred political revenue, as at this point. But the Government of the People's Party is still working. So he designed a whole strategy around Santiago's Way to develop during this long period of eleven years without a Holy Year, with the objective placed on his own Way and in the celebration of 2021. Of all the actions, let me name two: the communication campaign "Galicia, the Good Way" as the umbrella of all communications actions of the Galician Union, persisting in the memory of the Way and reinforcing the idea that it is an integral project, of country, part of all departments that configure the autonomous administration. Mrs. Burgo, I understand that for socialists to talk about participation, talk about whole projects, go a little bit of their concepts, but not for the People's Party. That's why all the projects that have been developed since Galician Union have an incardination. That's why you're going to find similar concepts in each of the plans, all under that Galicia 2020-2030 umbrella. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And another of the initiatives that I said it was developing the People's Party was the Plan Director and the Strategic Plan of the Santiago Way for the period 2015-2021, as an essential roadmap to continue with the value of all the paths of Santiago in Galicia. This Strategic Director Plan addresses aspects discussed in this House and which also appear in the approaches you have made to the PEX 2020-2021, such as the value of the roads in Galicia to allow the diversification of tourist flows and the maximization of the benefits that extend to all the municipalities along the roads. As the councillor remembered, more than a third of the Greek municipalities are Santiago's Way, thus contributing to territorial and social balance. But also the intervention in the cultural and landscape heritage, with the rehabilitation and recovery of built heritage, and not only of the historical heritage, but also of the civil and particular heritage through the initiatives of the ARI Way of Santiago; or other initiative of Natural Heritage. Yes, Mr Casal, there are works being done right now — and you know that we are discussing it in Commission 6a — such as the planting of native species on the paths of Santiago; or accessibility — which Mrs Burgo named, understanding that the Way must be as permeable as possible to the different personal capabilities. And governance, since the Way is not Galician, the Way must be shared responsibility for all public administrations and an element of public-private union. In this sense, the work tables of the various roads were created in Galicia. Mrs. Burgo, you call the Crown Deputy, the English Road Bureau is still unable to operate because your president doesn't update it. As I said, these tables seem to us an indispensable tool to help consolidate the Way through inter-administrative cooperation. If we talk about the way in national terms, we have the Jacobeo Council. And if we speak in European terms, we stress the creation of the European Federation of the Way of Santiago. Governance on the Way, but governance also for the celebration of the Xacobeo 2021, with the creation of the organizing commission that well-reported the adviser in his intervention. By the way, I'm going to remind you who this organizing commission is, because it seems like everything is Galician. No, ladies and gentlemen, apart from the departments of the Autonomic Administration, in this committee is the delegation of the Government of Galicia - even now displayed by the Socialist Party - the Archbishop of Santiago de Compostela, the Town Hall of Santiago de Compostela and the Fegamp, the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces. Mrs Burgo, the Councils of Galicia are involved in this organizing committee. And as the counselor recalled, among his functions is the approval of the Xacobeo 2021 Strategic Plan, a document that you present today, Counselor, as the culmination of a rigorous, serious and committed work with Santiago's Way to celebrate the 2021 Jacob. A document to celebrate Xacobeo 2021. Mr. Casal, the Strategic Plan and the Action Plan are complementary. Now we're talking about a strategic plan, surely the Council will be developing an action plan. You were very insistent in your intervention in the idea of Jacob's participation in just as a spectator, but rather as a proactive actor in the design of your own programming, and you set as an example your Jacob, where I'm not going to sink any more. Just tell him that for the People's Party this PEX has precisely a few very well-armed limbs. Some armed members in those ten strategic values, in line with the current perception of what society of the 21st century should be: a society that is cohesive, sustainable, innovative, multicultural and inclusive, while maintaining concepts of fundamental Jacobean roots such as hospitality or spirituality and religion. Yes, Mrs. Presas, we're not going to pin the root, the germ, of the tradition of the Way of Santiago. You have too much prejudice, and your prejudices are a disaster for the Way and for the Jacob. The ten management principles set out in the plan are also unquestionable, and rightly so, I wanted to make a brief reflection on the principle of equality. Stressing that 2018 was the first year in which pilgrimage became female. 50.35 % women versus 49.65 % men. This must serve to raise awareness, as the plan says, that we must encourage projects built from a gender perspective, but I would add that we must encourage projects in a woman's perspective. Finally, I don't want to finish this intervention -- I'm not going to repeat what the counselor has already said -- without having a bit of an impact on the words of the opposition groups. Today in this parliament, Counselor, we heard the opposition complaints, and, really, you know, as we all know, that they had no interest in being proactive, because their participation eliminated the possibility of criticism. I thank you for coming to the Galego Nationalist Block, although today in the debate you didn't really have much to say, but rather repeat what you've already left written, because somehow you forced the rest of the groups to present their suggestions. I deeply regret the out-of-place comments from the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, which, from my perspective, wanted to mess with other matters which we had to debate here now, because besides Mrs Cuña was based on her intervention on lies and falsehoods. I'd tell Mr. Casal that he knows the dynamics of Xacobeo perfectly. It is possibly the most likely Member who can talk about the benefits of Xacobeo to Galicia and for cultural fabric, with or without strategic plan. You were talking about that argument, as I said before, fake and repeated, a fake new, that Xacobeo is a party. Yes, the Jacobean is a feast: jubilation, Jubilee, Jacobean, is the feast of the Way of Santiago, it is the feast of Galicia. So, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that we must be able to assess precisely what it means to have an event of these characteristics, recurrent over time, during the 365 days of the year, which affects...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u67	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u68	...to a wide territory, despite having already set a goal. There's nothing like it in the world, and the world has to feel like it has a unique and unique date with Galicia every time it's holy year. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio Vilasánchez. Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez wanted to refer to the Joint Left Group. It was a normal confusion, we're still starting with this denomination of groups, you can pass it to a lot more people, but you can fix it, too. Replica from the Councillor for Culture and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth, ladies and gentlemen, opposition groups pose a vision in my tremendously limited view of what is a Jacob, of what is the celebration of a holy year. They plant their reading, almost everything, in negative, and they see a background of a tremendous ideological prejudice. I suppose to you that the Way of Santiago, the Jacobean, has a Christian basis, a humanist basis, implies some kind of problem, and there is a constant ideological prejudice in your claims that, obviously, it is yours, it is respectable, but that it contaminates your vision of transcendence, of the importance, that it has for the Galician set to set up an event as important as it is a Jacob, which has its basis and basis in the existence of a holy year. In order to answer your suggestions, repeated in some of the questions, I will respond to recurring general aspects by the four groups, and then I will try to give a specific answer to each of the intervening groups. You talk about the participation of political groups and you do it in a critical tone. I wanted to make it very clear what was the procedure, what happened and what is the moment we are. In this case, all your lordships know that in the debate of the state of autonomy the president has committed to collecting the approaches of the Greek society, so we did. In the elaboration of the Strategic Plan 600 people participated, and we also committed ourselves to the participation of the political groups in this House. We created a working group, and this working group had a series of meetings; some meetings were even welcomed at the request of opposition groups because we were on an election campaign. We had several meetings. At first, the ideas were presented. We were talking -- I insist -- about a strategic plan that defines the general lines, in this case, of the whole project. At a second meeting, we proposed the procedure for drawing up and collecting rounds for you. We gave a reasonable time, a month, so you could make your contributions. And already in a third place, our intention was to pose to you and teach you that you were coming to the Strategic Plan, but at that meeting you didn't come. Using the educational simile, they want to pass the exam without presenting themselves to the evaluation. If you want to approve, even present yourself. The truth is, you guys made a pre-emptive break and didn't want to participate, they didn't want to know what aspects of their contributions were incorporated into the plan. The truth is, the balance of their strategic approaches had a good acceptance, it's a shame they did a non-preventive one. I'm saying that because the group that participated in the Galician People's Party had been incorporated into it 100 percent, they were reasonable. And it's a surprise. As it's also a surprise that we've incorporated 100 percent of PSOE's arrivals, it's also a surprise. The hundred percent of the PSOE's approaches, made with wisdom — you have to say — have been incorporated, because we were talking about the big axes: we were talking about decentralization, sustainability, local talent, our own culture... all these issues have been incorporated. Sometimes it seems that the other side of the PSOE doesn't like it, he doesn't like it being collaborated and that he's working with a more sensible PSOE. From the block, curiously, we differ in many questions, the truth is that you have an ideological vision that contaminates all of your political action in an absolutely radical way. I think we share the beneficial impact Xacobeo has in Galicia. Obviously, those issues of a very marked ideological profile, very clear, even very destructive, we don't incorporate them, but, however, we practically incorporate 70% of their approach. And you did, you talked to us about diversifying, and it's collected in the Strategic Plan. They're trying to deseasonate, internationalize, give specific funding tools to the Way's pemmes. We have recently signed a line of soft loans, preferential funding, with a financial entity, with a huge amount of money made available to the entrepreneurs of the Way. You were talking about the pride of the Greeks, the territory, the cultural heritage... and all those principles are gathered into the Strategic Plan. I'm sorry about that nonpreventive. As far as the tide was concerned, it was more difficult, it was much harder. I don't know if it's now from the Joint Left Group or the Joint Group, formerly called the En Marea Group, like that Indianapolis singer. We don't know which group it corresponds to, but, in any case, their contributions, gentlemen, were quite unsound, because they spoke to us, and repeated it, of rehabilitation, of the Touro mine and things like that, they really didn't have any fit. With which, I have to conclude that the People's Party and the Socialist Party have fulfilled their duties, they have done us good. One showed up for the exam, another didn't show up for the exam. The Block studied, but only studied, forgot to study the last day, on the eve of the exam, and didn't go to the exam, lost it. And in Marea I think they were totally concerned about everything and they raised those issues that at that time to this group, to the Joint Group or to the Joint Left Group, to one of the two, seemed to be of interest. Another issue that also raises and what the groups are talking about, most of the parliamentary groups, is the importance we give to Jacob. In fact, from this government we give the Jacobeo a lot of importance, we always give it to him. The People's Party has always given great importance to Xacobeo because it is aware, as is the vast majority of Galicia, of the impact and positive impact it has on the economy, on employment, on the projection, on the dynamization of rural territories, which, if not for the effect of the Way, would be in an absolutely worrying situation. You go to many municipalities in the country, from within, out of the country, to those of you who go very little, and ask about the importance and impact of the Way of Santiago. You say they don't underestimate or don't have pejorative connotations on the Way, but if you see the media statements by some of your leaders, we actually see that they speak of monoculture, magic wand, or they hardly value it, and they're wrong, because the Xacobeo isn't from the People's Party, the Xacobeo is from Galicia, it's from the Greeks. And talking about the work being done, Mrs. Burgo, with all due respect, you say we're late. The current leader of the Socialist Party one day told us that we were still, that we didn't do anything, it's not going to be ruled. Home! I understand that the wishes of Mr. Gonzalo Caballero are not to govern the People's Party, just like ours are not to govern, in this case, the Socialist Party. But here's a obvious contradiction. Mr. Caballero said in statements to the media that we were still, that we didn't do anything, it wasn't just that we worked in free. Well, look, we're going to try to work the best we know and the best we can, planning, executing, ordering and organizing the celebration of Xacobeo. We're doing it. [[Applause]] Because in this matter, if there's any important matter where it's necessary to be with the long lights, it's in this. Imagine what happened some years ago, which I know you don't like to be repeated. In 2009, the current government, with President Feijóo, and at that time counsellor Roberto Varela, arrive at Galicia in the summer, after the elections and the formation of the Government, and find that there is absolutely nothing programmed, nothing organized. We have responsibility and we will work until the last day to plan, order and coordinate an event that we understand is transcendental to Galicia. And that's where the different policies are seen: those who think only about short-term politics, elections, winning elections proudly saying "you don't do anything, you're not going to do anything" and those who think in the country. And we think about the country and we think about the people of Galicia. We count to win the elections, no doubt, for that we are, but in the hypothetical case that they will be lost, the government that will come in above the table, in an office, all the programming, all the sponsors managed, the management of all the events, plans of all kinds, of signaling, of promotion, lines of financing for entrepreneurs... all of this will have it on the table, and there will have two options: throw it out, don't listen to it and start with zero, or be consistent and do it. And I'm sure it'll be the second part. I don't think we're going to get to that stage, but it's probably going to be the second part, with which we have to have long lights on this subject and not use an indicator saying: you're still doing nothing because there's going to be elections. Hey! If that's why, if management times were only associated with election times, we'd actually all make a very small policy, a short-term policy. And for a country to move forward, for a country to have development, there has to be a long view as the People's Party and the Government of Galicia concerning the Xacobeo. And already entering concrete matters, in the Mixed Group, Mr. Casal, in a candidly disparaging tone, has always used the word leaflet, constantly, and, of course, it is a little frustrating to have to explain the obvious and, above all, to have to explain what is written. You say there are no targets, there is no budget, there is no impact, there is no methodology... Man, you said there was no data. On page 93 is GDP, employment and economic impact. I don't know what document you could read, because on that particular page are the objectives, the economic capacity that is expected to be mobilized by the Galician Union, and all that is somehow linked to the impact, the objectives and the desired results. You confuse goals, diagnosis, survey data... that ninety-nine and a little bit of a per cent of pilgrims say it's an absolutely recommendable and satisfactory experience is not an objective, it's a data that was extracted from the diagnosis of a survey. But, of course, if you say that's an objective and invent it, we mix everything up and we don't go ahead. Because one thing is a strategic plan, which has a methodology, which has some approaches, which has some functions, and another thing is an operational plan, another thing is a specific action program. One thing is the Strategic Plan, and another thing is the Stylish Plan of the Way of Santiago or the Road Signing Plan. They're absolutely different things and we can't mix them. There are issues that need to be clear, for example, and I've already said so here, the Winter Road. The Winter Road, which was certainly driven by this government in 2016 with the adoption of the new Cultural Heritage Law, will have a signage plan according to the Santiago Road's Master Plan, that plan that you say is propaganda, that is smoke etc. Because this plan made it possible to invest 12 million in signaling, it allowed this year on the silver road to invest 3 million euros, and it will allow next year, in the year 2020, on the Winter Road, in the fourteen municipalities of the provinces of Ourense, Lugo and Pontevedra, to take on a signal to improve this route, which is, by the way, a fantastic route. As for the BNG, I think the spokeswoman was very gentle in all her exposure. It's true that the BNG has generally held back, in front of the Xacobeo fact, because of the religious connotation that pollutes all action for you. To say that we have no model in this field is a simple sarcasm, especially seeing its precedents and, above all, seeing its comments, its statements and the qualifications that bring to Jacob. Look, promises are not true. Of the issues that have been raised, there is only one promise that is the promise of the Government of the State to support and finance the BIC Plan. The signage plan, the hostel plan, the packaging plan, the beautification plan, is all in progress. The only thing that's not going on is the BIC Plan, which is a promise from the Government of Madrid that we have not known so far. And you say the Plan Director of the Way doesn't exist, and I just show you what the Plan Director is for, to gradually generalize the execution. Certainly, at the end of his exhibition, though gentle in his beginnings, the ideological vein came out, the deep ideological vein, and began talking about that the Spanish government minister did not speak to us. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's just that he came without warning. I think you haven't been warned, we haven't been warned either, as you well know. So we can't talk to anyone who doesn't warn us. Certainly, as I told you at first, you cannot isolate the Jacob of a fact based on Christian tradition, Christian humanism. I think the only thing that doesn't like the James Bloc and the Way of Santiago is this issue, but that's our story, it's Galician history, it's the history of our people, we like it or we don't like it, and, of course, I don't think that nothing like the effect of James and the Way of Santiago in the places where it happens is to have a deep ignorance of the country. [[Applause]] I invite you to go to any of the places where the Way passes, mainly those where the most consolidated Way is. It's obvious that the French Way has more power than other roads because it's the most traditional, it's the most important. But go to Sarria, to Portomarín, to Pino, to the municipalities, wherever you like, and ask if the Way has an impact on everyday life, economics, employment, etc. With regard to the Joint Left Group, before in Marea, there is a dissociation between Xacobeo and culture, as if one thing were cultural action or culture and another was Jacobbeo. They are absolutely intertwined issues. The Xacobeo, the Way, is a cultural fact, and it's an element that promotes, that power, that projects our cultural action, a huge platform or presentation screen in the world, and we're doing it, it's being done. We anticipate in the Strategic Plan that there is a very important job creation around 11,500 jobs, which is nothing less, and a very significant increase in GDP in this cycle, near a point. As the honourable Member of the People's Party said, part of this increase has been consolidated in the following years, as has been done, and it is said that such a solvency institution as the BBVA study centre, which is a very powerful, very important opportunity for the Galician group and we have the responsibility to take advantage of it. You're talking about the Touro mine, you're talking about a series of issues and you're looking at physical interventions. All physical interventions on the Road have two filters. One, a series of criteria that are in a good practice guide on materials, on the type of urban furniture, on forms of intervention, etc., that projectists and executives, be municipal, be municipalities, autonomous communities or Members, should follow and follow. Above all, there is a report from the Directorate-General for Heritage, a technical report, which is being made - I can assure you - with very strict criteria and approved in a commission in which not only the Administration is integrated, but also different private agents and relevant and prestigious people. With which, to question whether it is done out of channels, it's possible, I don't know if the photo that you did made it a council or not, or whether it was made out of channels or with permission or not, but in what you do and in what we have control of the Galician Union, I assure you that the treatment and physical infrastructure is absolutely respectful of the contour and tradition of the Way, and could not be otherwise. And finally, ask why. I think it's obvious. Why do we do what we're doing? For a simple reason, Jacob is not only a source of pride -- which he is -- from the country, not only a part of Galicia's cultural essence -- that he is, without any doubt -- but also an element of wealth for Galicia, for the Greeks and for the whole territory, and mainly for the rural municipalities, for many rural municipalities, where, unfortunately, one of the few elements of economic dynamization is the existence of the Way itself, with which we are faced with an element that decentralizes development stimulus in the country as a whole, which projects us as a country outside of Galicia and outside of Spain. There are few elements that have the communication capacity that the Way of Santiago has; you think there are pilgrims in about 180 countries. There's a huge international knowledge of the Way. And, above all, something that we must be proud of as a country is the empowerment, care, mine and respect that Galicia and the Greeks have for the Way of Santiago and we have for the Jacobean, because it is a fundamental element for our identity. We can't understand Galicia without understanding Santiago's Way. Historically, culturally, socially, economically it is very difficult to understand. And finally, the Socialist Party. As I have already said, there are two ways of understanding politics: that of the short term, that of the short lights, and that of the long lights and with a vision of the future, which, obviously, is on this bench, seen the sight. The honourable Member is surprised that there is coherence in the action of the Government. This strategic plan is not an exclusive strategic plan of the Council of Culture, here we are reflected and represented all the councils of the Council of Galicia. It's a government plan for Galician Union. Of course, the Council of Culture has to coordinate and has an important part, but Infrastructure has a fundamental role, Health has a fundamental role, the Presidency has a fundamental role. It's strange -- it's surprising -- that there is coherence in government action. By the way, we present, President Feijóo presented, what you call slogan, campaign, in an act in the Autonomic Administration, before the managers - among whom I meet - to promote the action of government. That's what you call electoralism, partisanism. As you are the PSOE, Mrs Burgo, what can you call the current action of the Government of Spain and President Sánchez? How can you call it that? It's really surprising and daring to be able to make comparisons and conclusions that you said tragic, you used the tragic word. If there is one tragic thing in this country, in Spain, in Galicia and in all autonomous communities, it is the action of the Socialist Party's Government in the Spanish Government. That is absolutely tragic, for the enormous connotations you have! [[Applause]] You're starting to say we bet everything on Jacob. No, look, no, you didn't listen to me. I have already said that for us, Xacobeo has a very important role, but we are aware and we have projects and policies in different fields, in social policy, in economic policy, in educational policy, which are working absolutely on the edge of Xacobeo, could not be otherwise. We don't want to create a smoke curtain. In contrast, we want to enhance and that Jacob is not a culture of smoke, but that it is a light that enlightens Galicia inside and outside, and that is something that, certainly, with its vision, with the vision that the Socialist Party has in this case, is very difficult to contradict. In the end, you think it's a vision of almost abandonment. It's all wrong, you said. But of course, this approach, this speech, falls onto the table with one data, and the only fact that makes all its argument fall is what the pilgrims tell us. And what do the pilgrims tell us? Practically 100 percent, 98.7% of pilgrims recommend making the Way and say it's a unique experience. If it had been as you say, it was practically like Vietnam, really the pilgrims -- I insist, the vast majority of them international, 65% -- would tell us something else. With which, really, evidence and empirical data, in the end, they easily disassemble some speeches. Now to finish, and regardless of the saying, I want to thank the opposition groups. First, by participating in the project that started through the working groups, although they did not then appear on the test. And in the end, too, to some extent, because at this meeting they have been portrayed as they see, as they interpret, the importance that they give to the Way, that they give to the Jacobeo, and fortunately — as it often happens — the Greeks will take note. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u71	Thank you, Counselor. Special round of clarifications. [[Pause.]] Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u72	Counselor, the truth is, I'd rather think you didn't listen to me, because it would be very insulting to say that I confuse data with goals. This Member has his limitations, but to confuse a data with an objective, for now... No, I didn't say that. [[Mr. Rodríguez González utters words that are not perceived.]] I said we had to use the data to set up the targets, which is a little different. Obviously, to configure a target you need to know the starting data, that's what I said. Maybe you don't know what it's like. And I don't want to change more than it deserves that insult that threw me. I didn't say that, I said if 97.86 percent of the pilgrims came out with a very positive idea of the Way, you had to take advantage of that data to achieve the goal that these gentlemen were prescriptors of Galicia; and that's quite different, apparently, from what you interpreted. After hearing it, now if I'm clear, you don't know what a strategic plan is. We can look at the RAE. What's a strategic plan?"A basic tool of improvement for any initiative, business, institution or government. Through this document, the goals that are intended to be achieved in the medium or long term are expressed and details are given the way in which they will be achieved." Well, there are no targets in this document, because you told me that on page 93 there were the targets, but the document you sent us has 92 pages! Because I don't know where the rest of the document is, that's what we all have in Parliament sent by the House. [[Mr. Rodríguez González utters words that are not perceived.]] I just checked it out because you missed me, because I hadn't seen anything about GDP or anything... It's 92 pages, maybe 93 fell down the road. And I repeat, there are no concrete goals, there is no way of reaching those goals, there is no breakdown. Budget splits are simply half-page, fully inclusive; 247 million both in 2020, 2021 and 2022. For what? What line of action? How much are you going to invest in everything? How are we going to follow up and control this theoretical strategic plan? How can we assess whether 2020 is 20% of target 1 achieved? What is goal 1? What is target 34? In the document at no time is reflected, all are declarations of intentions, talk about how beautiful the Xacobeo should be, what important it will be. But important, why, why? How will it affect the tourism industry? How will the agri-food industry, for example, be affected in a very important way? In what way? How much is it going to increase the sale of Arzua cheese thanks to Xacobeo? And don't tell me that this can't be done. That would be an objective of a strategic plan: to talk to people in the areas that are going to pass hundreds of thousands of prescribers and what expectations they have that will benefit their economy. That should be a strategic plan, but it seems you don't know what a strategic plan is, or even they didn't want to propose concrete objectives in this document so that the opposition could make a follow-up and a control of whether they really are moving forward in the goals or not. It seems that's the idea, just take out a booklet; because it's true, it's a very well-published booklet but it doesn't make any concrete! And then you say we have ideological prevention. Here, too, it confuses religious feelings with ideological positions. We have no prevention of religious feelings in any way, and we respect them completely, but if we have ideological positions and forms of government that, indeed, do not coincide with their own. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Casal. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u74	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, at last, it didn't make any sense to me if I had gone soft, radical, destructive... it didn't seem very clear to me. In any case, we since the BNG have always insisted: you can be very powerful and polite. We lose our nerves sometimes, like everybody else, but we like education and respect, as well as seriousness. So the first thing I'm going to do is leave Mr President with two questions. First, the satanic and destructive approaches that have left the Galego Nationalist Block, where things are asked to be as triggered as calendar and so on, so you can see that at no time there is a gulag or any question like that. And also the document that the groups record by the official channels of this Parliament when, in your opinion, we did what is not going to the exam. [[Applause]] In the end, we will leave it, perhaps, that we should not have such a good will and not be enrolled in that adventure you invited us to, but rather insist that the official mechanisms were respected. So it would all be recorded, with lights and tachographs, and at least it could stay for history; as it is for history, for those who want to verify it, that it is a falsity that this story they built with respect to the Bipartite. But you guys work like this, you're obsessed. It's okay. When they want to, they create an investigation commission on Xacobeo and the Bipartite, and we discuss here what was oriented and what wasn't. Because we already know that you are very often when you see that you can lose a government, leave — as Fraga did — these contracts with the concerted and private ones. But others have another way of going through institutions. In any case, whenever they want, we open that wire. Especially for Mrs. Antonio, who I see has a special obsession. It is also responsible for conscience because you, who had occupations in Jacob and the internal tourism organization of this country, did not remain with the quiet consciousness of what you did there — I don't know. But if you don't think you've done the right job, it's time to fix it. [[Applause]] In any case, they also have official bodies. Now that at the ESC they have a colleague from the People's Party of Santiago, to see if they're reading a little about the challenges he proposes and that we also pick up on our proposals regarding the Way of Santiago and stop looking so much at BBVA. In any case, for fake news there is the Government of the People's Party and its advertising and propaganda. Mr. Rodríguez, already coming back to you, man!, that you speak to us of limited vision concerning Jacob, when you are the ones who object solely to religious vision, it is almost a guard trial. [[Applause]] Mr. Román Rodríguez, we have no problem with studying, spreading, investigating, seeing the religious aspect of the origins of the Way of Santiago, of course not! What we have is that public budgets are destined exclusively for the monoculture of the exclusively Catholic vision of the Way of Santiago, of course yes! If the Catholic Church loses its followers and if the Way of Santiago has an increasingly secular vision, it will be the problem of the Catholic Church if it wants to allocate the money it saves from not paying the IBI for it; but, of course, not the public administrations. And you are also aware of your own ideological inconsistencies, because it was you who catapulted the Way of Santiago as a product exclusively touristic, and now they complain and are afraid that, in fact, you can only be seen as something touristic. [[Applause]] Those are the inconsistencies of their ideology, not ours. In any case, we insist, of course, that we disagree with that monocolored view of Catholicism and also disagree with that vision that it is now the Way of Santiago that will solve the problems of fidelity of Europeanism. And what I was referring to was the question of the minister—which you have dealt with—is that it does not seem acceptable for us to come here to a central government lord, who could be perfectly from the People's Party, to tell us that the Way of Santiago will be a key in the Spanish brand, and that the Government of the People's Party, as it is trapped in its centralism, does not happen to say, "Hey, here we have a different product!", here we have a sign of our identity! That's what we mean, not imposing any other readings.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u75	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u76	And I end up denying the eldest, Mr. Román. Despite the mess that you did there with if we were destructive, constructive, if they were fatal, but incorporated a part etc., most of us did not feel represented by this plan, for example very concrete. I was commenting on it in the previous intervention. Inspection. We have shown that there is a weakness of the inspection, but it hasn't yet explained to us how other issues will be reinforced. Of course, we're all talking about the need to unseasonate, but it's you who have to define a roadmap that doesn't appear to be defined here. And so there are many more issues, such as cultural protection. You really can come to this Parliament satisfied because they bring a pseudo-plan that says they're going to intervene in thirty cultural interests, in thirty...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u77	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u78	...with all the duties they have to do in that matter? Of course it's not assumed. In any case, be sure we won't make that mistake again of going to these absurd groups of work without light and tachygraphs, but I'm sorry to inform you that he will continue to make proposals there, making opposition, making controls, because it's our work and we...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u79	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u80	...we're not going to give up. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Joint Left Group, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u82	Here things were said out of place. If someone says that a Member or a Member of Parliament, the logic is that he argues, because if not, what he shows is a lot of ignorance and a lot of aggressiveness, and there is no point in it. We reaffirm that the problem is not tourism, it is the model. We have different models. Counsellor, that's what I'm saying about insults is referring to Mrs. Maria Antón Vilasánchez. I don't say half a minute more because insult without justification I don't get it, I don't get it. What is important is to keep our arguments, they're absolutely relevant. We are being proactive when we say that we support a sustainable, truly sustainable tourism. And there are a lot of guidelines that are not collected there and that should be followed. Measures to meet targets. Protection of heritage is an absolute priority. Overcoming the law of the three wrongs has everything to do with preserving the heritage. It's not understood how there was censorship. And that you're in danger we don't say it, experts, we're perfectly documented. The policies of protecting our landscaped, cultural, heritage wealth are the responsibility of this government. Believe the thief that everyone is of his own condition. The attack... we are asking for is the defense of the integrity, authenticity, of all itineraries. You not only despise the reports of Icomos on the barbarities of the Way that you seem unknown: that concrete is used on the pavement, that the model is changed, that forest clues are made on millennia roads. Tourists from Taiwan, or wherever they come from, of course more than 60% are foreign, they don't come to tread cement, and this distorts the spirit and essence of the Way. So we say, De la Serna says, "The tumult is a mass that comes out of the masses sometimes." Massification is a problem, and it can generate tourism phobia. More isn't always the best. Dosage. We are convinced that tourism can be good for this country, both for rural and for many economic sectors, but we disagree that the main thing is commercial, economic and business profitability. When we ask them for explanations, which happens with IVE on the subject of the shelters, they don't answer. And when we tell them that windmills also attack the roads, it's a reality. And we can mention a lot of questions. When you say there's a synergy between tourism and culture, the sound of the Way, which you referred to earlier, here we came the three opposition groups to question opaque management. The sound of the Road is almost five million euros in two years. Five million euros a festival that, compared to the rest of all state festivals in the same category, is the most funded and has the least return. There's a report, it's public and you can read it. And what's he paying attention to? That amount is equivalent to 20 years of all the sound festivals and performing arts of Galicia. Come here and tell me that there's a synergy and that culture's at the same time. The Xacobeo is here at large, and both language and culture are unprotected and its involvement is minimal. You're talking...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u83	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u84	...of us gordians whenever we ask him for cultural demands. Look, call Carlomagno to see if he unties the churidian knot, but he doesn't sell us any motorcycles that there's a match. We believe that the well-managed Xacobeo is very favourable for our economy, for rural and for all citizenship, but well-managed!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counselor, I'm sorry to tell you the bad news that your consideration that the Government of Pedro Sánchez is a tragedy is not shared by the rest of the Spaniards, eh! Because, look, it turns out that PSOE has seven and a half million votes and 123 seats and PP four billion three hundred thousand votes and 66 seats. [[Applause]] Therefore, this consideration of the PSOE government does not seem to be what you say. That's right, it's clear from 66 seats that the Spaniards thought the PP government was a tragedy, the same thing that's happening in this country. [[Applause]] I'm glad you've approved me, I tell you the truth; I hope you value it with a superstar at least, right? Because we're not going to stay here with an approval of anything, since you and I have known each other for a long time, I hope it's a superstar. But I have to tell you that it's not true that you included our considerations, that I thank you for what value. Where is the special tourism plan for the development of Xacobeo but in Xacobeo itself, not a normal tourist plan? He's not! Where's a plan we proposed? Where is a cultural plan, in agreement with the sector, but with the whole sector, with the cultural sectors and with the creators, with the university, with the programmers, with the cultural companies? Where is he? He's not there either! Like that, I could tell you a lot of things. Look, the problem is not what you write. What you bring here is written, I mean, you and your collaborators. He's not in what he writes. What he writes is very good because paper supports everything. The problem is in the facts, Mr. Counselor, and as soon as they prove. What is the cultural model of this Xacobeo? The sound of the Way, with 3 million per concert? Is that it? You can defend him, eh! I think he's good to defend him, but tell him which one. [[Murmurs.]] Whether it's always going to be big events, whether they're important or not, or we're going to go for something that really drives our cultural companies. Another example of bad practice, from my point of view. See if he doesn't distort my words and he understands me. Research and disclosure, I fully agree, I would only be missing!, I fully agree. What I disagree with is the bad practice of the fact that you are engaged in, the Galician Tourism Agency, EUR 210,000 for a study on the cathedral that will give to the cathedral itself to do and publish this study. I disagree, Counselor. Because look, you know perfectly well, just like me, that EUR 210,000 is ten years of public aid to a research group of humanity that gives Junta. Ten years of research from an elite group supports him equal to Joina as a book that will make the cathedral. [[Applause]] No revisions, by the way, of quality on this. Does it seem normal to you as a university professor, as a university professor, that there could be a book that costs EUR 210,000? Ten years of research! Please, Counselor, I think you must be a little more serious about this! I want to tell you too, so that I don't accuse only Mrs. Presas of ideologicalization, that we also defend a lay Jacobus, a Jacobus, not Holy Year. The Holy Year is a religious fact. Jacob was born with a lay motivation, which doesn't mean he has no ethical values. Because you know perfectly well, when you talk about humanism, that if there is anything that determines the humanist movement of rebirth is to ensure that ethical values exist outside of religion, and they still exist, Counsellor. So you can make a value Jacobus, I think it's very good, but...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u87	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u88	...have to be of lay value. By the way, you don't have to care why they come here, you just have to care about one thing — and finally, Mr. President — you just have to make it clear that you do have to stop pilgrims from thinking that this is a cheap, fun tourism, and that this becomes a theme park. That's what you have to avoid. Then, if he comes to meet himself, to live with his family, to walk, that doesn't matter. You can't defend with public money the religious vision of Xacobeo, because it wasn't born that way.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u90	That corresponds to the church. And we could talk a lot more, but unfortunately I can't do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u91	Thank you. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u92	Thank you, President. My first words are to excuse myself with Mrs. Cuña, who put her back in the Marea Group. I wanted you to know. Counsellor, you were saying that the PEX collected 100 percent of the population's arrivals, and I appreciate this inclusion because we underlined the need to design activities with a future vocation for Jacobs who are coming, because Jacob 2021 cannot be ephemeral, it has to leave, in our opinion, material and immaterial placement. And with this PEX we see precisely that this idea is fulfilled that you also highlighted in your intervention, because Xacobeo 2021 opens a period of three eleven-year-old Jacobos, so this PEX represents the basis, the master lines and guidelines for the organization of a Jacobo. And that's why it's also so important for us to make Xacobeo as individuals, as Greeks, that we know how to create that feeling of pride and belonging, and to get out of the political debate the Way of Santiago. But we see that opposition groups are not interested. The opposition likes to deny the evidence. The success of the Way of Santiago is evidence, and it is also evident that the driving force and principal force of this recognized millennium journey around the world is the People's Party, not only because it was the architect of the idea, but because the policies implemented by the different popular governments since 1993 have contributed to this success. And believe me, Mrs. Presas, I'm super proud of my work in favor of Galicia. My work is visible and evident, yours is still to be seen. [[Applause]] Mrs. Presas, the councillor invited her to meet some points on the French Way. I don't, I tell you to go to Olveiroa, to the Town Hall of Dumbria, a council in which the Socialist Party has ruled for a long time; a council with which the Galician Union, for a long time, knew and was able to create the necessary channels to collaborate in favour of the Way of Santiago, and then told Mrs. Burgo, because it seems that Mrs. Burgo doesn't know that the Town Councils and Boards have been working on the Santiago Road since 1993, as demonstrated by the French Way's Commonwealth. Mrs. Burgo's ignorance sometimes becomes bold, because Mrs. Burgo asks, "Where is participation? Where's the central government's participation? Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Party, you despise the Way of Santiago, the Jacobean. Mr. Zapatero has already done this by refusing to bring together the City of Santiago Consortium Patronate and away from all the planning and development of Xacobeo 2010. And now he's doing Mr. Sánchez's Government again. For you, Jacob is a picture in the square of the Oberdoiro, like that of Minister Maroto and Mr. Gonzalo Caballero in early August. Mrs. Maroto was in Galicia to insult the intelligence of the Greeks and the Greeks, because if she really wanted Mr. Sánchez's central government and his ministry to provide greater presence and greater participation in Xacobeo 2021 they could have already done so. The councillor has already said this, on the table of the Minister of Culture, since October 2018, there has been an investment plan in the BIC of the Way, programmed and presented by the Council of Galicia, which is waiting for an answer. In the 2018 Budget Act of the Government of the People's Party of Mr. Rajoy, Vice-President, which is not an extension to Mr. Sánchez's inability to approve new budgets, there is an additional provision to support the activities of the Santiago Consortium linked to the Holy Year and Santiago Cathedral. It's simple: fewer photos and more actions. I'm not going to comment again on Mr. Knight's statements asking for a brake. The brake will tell the Galicians and the Greeks in the polls, not you. We do not comply with short-sightedness - as Mr. Sánchez said - and you, if you have any weight in Madrid, talk to your colleagues, tell them that we expect funding proposals for Jacob, regardless of who rules here, because the People's Party is interested in Galicia, you don't. Ladies and gentlemen, you have the opportunity to change your attitude and collaborate with this vast and wide range of actions towards Jacob 2021. We don't give everything to Jacob, as the counselor has already explained, but we're not as foolish as to deny and not see the opportunities it offers us. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio Vilasánchez. Close to attendance, Councillor for Culture and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is, if the Way had been as bad as you say, if the management of the Way or the Jacobean had been as bad as you say, and considering that since the year 1999 the Management of the Way is a competition of the People's Party, of the People's Party governments, the truth, I wonder why year after year increases the number of pilgrims; I wonder why every time pilgrims from more countries of the world come to Galicia; and I wonder why every time it is a brand of greater prestige. If everything were as you say, these questions would have no answer, what happens is that they make them wrong and they're wrong. Certainly, the Way is, it needs to be improved. Much progress has been made and further progress has to be made. But it's really a basic element of pride. I think that in general for all the Greeks it is something that we must be absolutely proud of. [[Applause]] With regard to its second round of intervention, there are practically no new issues to say, both in the Joint Group and in the BNG, and in the Joint Left Group called in Marea. Certainly, perhaps, the different issues that were raised in this second turn were made by the Socialist Party, and I, Mrs. Burgo, with all the respect and affection I know I have, will also give you and your group another bad news. The vision and consideration they have for the Government of Galicia is not the one that the Greeks have, and that's why we win the election, the election after the election, with which you now take refuge in the Government of Sánchez, but apply the story, apply the story of the vision and consideration that Galicia has to this Government and the political action of the People's Party in Galicia. [[Applause]] Cultural model. I've had it said on many occasions, we have to combine great events that give us visibility outside and that serve to throw a message out, very important. For example, in the Way Sound, around half the people who come are from outside Galicia. This is tremendously important for a city, for a country and for a cultural movement, and we have to combine that, which is not in any way exclusive, with enhancing the social initiative and participation of cultural agents, administrations, associations, federations, and I believe we demonstrate it. There's your Xacobeo, 5 million euros invested this year in more than 350 projects. That's our model: participation, involvement of Galicia, of the Greek cultural and social agents, but also great events that project Galicia's image abroad. Obviously, it's very difficult to dissociate, I even think it's absurd to try to dissociate the Holy Year's Xacobee, it doesn't make sense to dissociate it. Now, it's true that the fact of Jacob and the fact of pilgrimages are not exclusively religious, but deny the cultural basis, the Christian humanism behind this whole project, is simple and flatly absurd. Look, at no time can you qualify, because to me it seems to me a lack of consideration, the pilgrims of cheap tourism or fun tourism, in no case. Above all, given that behind each pilgrim there is a tremendously emotional, tremendously emotional human history. In no case can pilgrims be associated with cheap tourism or fun tourism, because it would be to miss out on the hundreds of thousands of people involved in such a hard and respectful action as the Way is. [[Applause]] And look, to finish, today we're presenting a strategic plan that was introduced before the summer. We do so with a lot of foresight, a year before the Holy Door opens, with a lot of foresight. Before the end of the year we will present the programming that develops this strategic plan. You sometimes confuse the strategic vision with the concrete vision, which will be presented - as I say - at the end of the year. This was a participatory plan, absolutely participatory, involving 600 people and institutions, I believe it is a substantial fact, and it opened them up - as you know perfectly and have just discussed - the door to parliamentary groups to bring their strategic visions. It gives the feeling that they don't like some of them being assumed, but the truth and truth is they've missed the opportunity -- as I've already said -- to put a good note on their file. They didn't. It's too bad. The truth is it's a plan that is obviously still alive. It will be established at the end of the year, but the efforts to try to explain at the end almost fall into a broken bag. You launch a non-preventive plan, you launch criticisms that are not new either, in this case the left-wing groups, the Xacobeo and the Holy Year, are criticisms that have been heard since 1993. If one looks at the hemosphere statements of the leaders of the PSOE, the Bloc, then there was neither the Marea nor the Joint Group, nor the Joint Group, nor any other groups, it's always the same, there's no innovation at all. What's the good one? That in front of these statements, which are constant, the monoculture one has been saying since 1993, that is the reality of the facts and, above all, I think the most important thing is the love that we have for the Greeks on the Way and the Jacobean. I think the immense, the immense, the vast majority of the Greeks are tremendously proud of being the point and the final destiny of Santiago's roads, and I think that's something that we win at every gales every day. I think it's something that we should consider and that would deserve a little less frivolity. There's also a contradiction. We presented the Strategic Plan, we're presenting the programming, we've been doing all kinds of interventions on the roads, in promotion, in conditioning, in projection, but it gives you the feeling that it seems to them that we're doing too much, and they almost tell us we're still. We were told we were still waiting for the election process in 2020. If we did little, if we were still, to see what you would say, they would be saying that we are not planning or executing anything, with which there is certainly a significant contradiction. But as I said in my previous intervention, we have a commitment: we want to leave a well-planned, well-structured Jacobean, well-ordered at the end of the legislation, and we are sure that this roadmap will continue to run the People's Party, and, if not, I am sure that you, in your vast majority, will also do so. But, I insist, I understand that the democratic will of the Greeks will continue to support the People's Party in this case. I'm done. I ask you to have country ambition, not just think about your short-term election results, think about the well-being of the Greeks, progress, pride that means a Jacob and a Holy Year, and especially think that Galicia is not understood without the Way; we cannot understand a significant part of our history, what we are and what we will be, without the Way. For us, I believe that for all the Greeks, it is a huge challenge, it is an enormous opportunity and, to some extent, it is a fundamental element for our present, but also fundamental for our future and also for our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Developmental modification of the plenary session
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u95	Thank you, Counselor. We make an amendment to the development of the plenary session and we move on to point 3, which is motions. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantiños, on the policy of the Government of Galicia in relation to the protection of people from Greek financial products
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u96	Amendments to the Joint Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Parliamentary Group have been tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u97	To formulate the motion you have the word to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u98	Thank you, Mr. President. Even if the pilgrimages eventually invented them by the People's Party, or they were four centuries old, or if Fraga invented them four centuries ago, they change their subject. At the end of the previous session, at the end of July, we had an interpellation to the German Government about the state of our country's financial system, and more specifically about how that affected the Greeks and the Greeks in the orbit of consumption. This, to us, is a fundamental matter, it is something that determines our economy and which very deeply affects domestic economies and also businessmen, therefore, it is a matter that is important to us, even though we will only receive, from the Greek Government, more balloons outside. We insist, because in addition, at this particular moment in which we are living a slowdown in the economy and in what has already been ten years since that financial bubble exploded in 2008 and 2009, we think it's time to look back and see how it went and where it led us to the management of the People's Party, especially that of Mr. Núñez Feijóo, in front of the Galician Union. But also looking forward, not only where the trend is going, but where we want it to go and how we can intervene, every time this financial self-regulation strategy has been seen to be completely unsuccessful. It's totally failed because this decade's balance is really demolition. We could see how control agencies like the Banco de España were more of a problem than a solution. We could also see how since the Central Government revenue was less control after a crack that originated precisely because of lack of control and that it left us nothing more and nothing less than a public investment of more than 65,000 million euros than we are not going to recover even 10,000 million. And we have also seen that from the European point of view, mainly because of social pressure, there has been some minor progress as in the preferences, but it also left a long way for unfinished tasks, as we have also seen recently on the issue of ground clauses. Even today, Acuga, an association of consumers in the Greek field, denounced how in Vigo's trials years ago he waited for a way that ended up being practically the only one that had consumers and consumers, which is the judiciary. And we have also seen at this time, with regard to the Galician Union, because basically the policy followed by Mr Núñez Feijóo was to agree to the entire financial policy imposed from the state and from the European institutions and the active participation and collaboration with the disappearance of the financial muscle of this country. That's Mr. Feijóo's balance sheet: first, align yourself with that failed bank restructuring; and then be an active part of banking and selling at the balance price of our savings boxes. Here, once again, for the last time — and I am already bored of doing so — we must remember that the People's Party continues to have this case investigation commission hijacked in this Parliament, and there is still a lot left to know about this operation today. But we already know that, of these 9,000 million euros of public rescue and of that subsequent sale for just 1 billion, there are still a lot of shadows left. Meanwhile, even in the first year of Abanca — which this past year also had a record of economic benefits — had already recovered much of the benefits. We also saw at this time Mr. Feijóo as the definitive step forward so that our financial system had lost its remaining galeguity. And today, not even one of the financial institutions operating in Galicia -- not even the two most important -- have their focus on decision-making here in our country. And so these muds -- today Galicia has a bank concentration higher than the Spanish average and higher than the European average. This is the balance of financial weakness, lack of access to credit for individuals and businesses, and also a growing financial exclusion. This results in multiple and diverse consequences. But today we wanted to focus, in particular, on the consequences on and on consumers — which basically have two causes: the failure of the legal framework for protection and also the inaction of the Galician Union — and, on the other hand, on the consequences of the closures of offices and the loss of employment in the sector, which ultimately favour that financial exclusion. And I was talking, first of all, about the failure of the legal framework for the protection of users and users, a legal framework that only had minor changes to the social mobilization force, but that, today, the permanence of litigiousness and also what the affected platforms tell us is that they are failed measures. On the one hand, recipes such as that code of good voluntary practices — which the Bank of Spain itself has sanctioned for non-compliance — or that transposition of MiFID II legislation, which we see is still inconclusive in much of the territory because it is not preventing toxic products from happening, because they are failed. And in front of that, what do you say? Well, he doesn't say anything. Say: Ah!, this is competition from others, we can't say anything. That's not the role a German government should have worthy of such a name. That is why we are proposing today, on the one hand, that this framework be studied and that the necessary changes and reinforcement mechanisms be remedied which can be activated — for example through financial education — by means of which a reinforcement of the Galego Institute of Consumption and Competition is also carried out, which is undoubtedly an important and valuable instrument, which works well but which needs more means and resources; and specific programmes that we propose are committed to these 2020 budgets, which we do not know yet will exist, but in any case have your extraordinary mechanisms in order to do so. Because reality is there, and this situation of consumers and consumers is aggravated by a reality that is that of closure of offices — which we have talked about — and that of loss of employment, which favors more vulnerability and more financial exclusion. This same Friday we had a headline saying to us, "The Santander Bank closes on Friday seven offices in Galicia." One more drip, one sum and follow a process that comes from a distance, which leaves, in the specific case of the ERE of Santander, more than 300 jobs destroyed in Galicia. But we still see how in general more than five thousand jobs have been lost in the banking sector in the last decade, how precarious the working conditions have been, how that figure of the employee or employee has been promoted instead of a worker more directly linked to the banking institutions, and a long et cetera that has worsened attention, which has reduced the possibilities for attention and has negatively contributed to the financial exclusion and vulnerability of these people. Because entities have also been lost to whom they can go. Today we have 40 percent less than a decade ago — 40 percent less — and nothing more and nothing less than 41 municipalities — according to the latest data from the Banco de España — that have no entities. The People's Party first said that this was normal — electronic banking, scanning, etc. — but we know that this is a screen, because it represents a problem, especially in terms of cash access, when more than 53% of the population prefers to use cash instead of other operations, when we are away from that disappearance of the cash and when, in addition, it is important a bank office from the point of view of attention, counseling and other kinds of issues — rather than going into factors such as the poor Internet network that this country has—. And the People's Party has been rectifying a little. It no longer seemed so wonderful to him and he began to recognize that there is a problem with the loss of entities in our country. Now, we don't share it is the last occurrence of the Government of Greece, which must have seemed little to rescue this state's banking system with 65,000 million euros that now what you want to do is to copy the bad ideas of the Valencian Generalitat and take out a public contest, financed with public money, so that some private entity...—oh, surprise!, we can do here a fucking thing about which will finally win that bid, if it happens; I bet by a banking entity, then we can write it up in an envelope and that Mr. President with it saved.— But in any case — aside from scratches — it doesn't seem normal for us that banking institutions that have growing profits have to receive public money to put a cashier in a council. Without going to deeper debates about the fact that only a cashier doesn't solve the problems of financial exclusion. So today we propose a question that is important to us, which is that it is studied, evaluated, that legal changes, that routes of political negotiation, etc., can be done with banking entities or with the regulatory framework at the state level to achieve...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u99	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u100	...that there is a sufficient network without it cost us a single euro of the public era. And finally, we also propose, as a result of the reflection that the vulnerability situation we live has also structural causes, in the system itself, that we have to generate alternatives. That is why the Government of Greece needs to promote the necessary studies to ensure that there are alternatives to funding, that there are other mechanisms, and that there is finally a public bank in this country with new forms of participation that promote a stronger financial system, a financial system that can be released and that can serve the economic fabric of this country, both for individuals and for small and medium-sized enterprises. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u102	Thank you, Mr. President. We basically coincided with everything that was put forward in the motion. So I'm going to focus on what our amendment is, which is a very important and unfortunately totally unknown subject for citizenship. Financial institutions are not collaborating, and governments are not demanding it, either, to publish what we mention in the amendment, which is the basic accounts of financial services. And, well, this is an issue that is important to me because I had the honour that it was the first non-legislative proposal that passed me in this Parliament. And nothing happened, initially nothing happened, Parliament unanimously voted to urge financial institutions to create this basic financial services account. But the truth is that something has affected, at least because, two months later at the Congress of Deputies and most of them, the Spanish legislation on this matter has been passed. The financial institutions continued to boycott the application of the legislation. It was a transposition of a European directive of the year 2014 — i.e. that Mr Rajoy had plenty of time to be able to cross Spain but it seems that there was no interest, there was more interest in benefiting financial institutions. The law was passed, I say, in November 2017, and it was not applied at any time. The financial institutions continued to suggest that there were implementation problems, which were unclear about implementation. Well, in March this year there is already a concrete and transparent ministerial order that makes it easier for all citizens — all citizens, because this is a matter that needs to be made clear, it is not for vulnerable people, it is for all citizens — there are basic accounts of financial services in all entities obliged to offer to all their customers. It is an account — in short — that has a maximum commission of EUR 3 per month for all basic services — receipts payment, account availability, cash provision, transfers, motion consultation and some more — with a limitation of 120 operations per year, which are now being 10 operations per month. For many people, they are sufficient to develop financially — I assure you, for a very important part of Galician citizenship — And, I mean, it's a maximum of 36 euros. Well, for the consultations I'm making, taking into account, for example, that those who perceive the risk are obliged to have a bank account, Abanca, for example, is charging 60 euros of commission per year to people who are the only ones who do it is to enter the perception and withdraw the money — because in many cases they don't normally have home receipts or have one per month — when they could be using this regulation with important savings. But then, on 22 March of this year, the Royal Decree 164/2019 was passed, where it already entered that which we presented in 2017 in this Parliament, which is called the "free basic account of financial services". Well, now that's a royal decree and it's very clear of application. Anyone with certain conditions — for example, the most basic thing is having income under twice the IPREM, about EUR 1,060 — has the right to have an account with the same conditions as the general but free basic account. Well, this does not know 100 percent of the beneficiaries, who in Galicia are hundreds of thousands. There are hundreds of thousands of people and households entering less than 1,062 a month, who have the right to have a free account for the conditions I said before: 120 operations a month, transfers, etc. Well, with the financial institutions, what we are proposing in the amendment is that the Galician Board develops a code of good practice through the Galician Institute of Consumers — which is already good practice to comply with the law — so that customers who know what they are in these circumstances, because they know their incomes, offer them directly the possibility of subscribing this free basic account of financial services.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u103	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u104	I mean, it doesn't seem important, but I remember that, when I told you that I had approved this to a lady at a neighboring meeting that we had in the Coruña, and that it was 60 euros of annual savings, she told me that with 60 euros she would feed the family ten days. That's why I think it's very important that we approve this amendment. Apart from everything else, we are in favour of the proposal by the BNG, because, indeed, for all these people not to pay for financial services, in addition to financial exclusion, it is a very important issue. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u105	Thank you, Mr. Casal. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Porritt Lueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Madam President, today you are bringing the debate with this motion to a point which has already been dealt with in certain respects in Commission 3a. So we agreed, and today we also agree on most of the points. It's a motion that tries to correct the injustices caused by bank abuse and prevent them from repeating in the future. On the specific contents of the same we coincided with the first. The bad banking practice is due, among other things, to the negotiation of two economic agents with very different capacities in economic, legal and knowledgeable resources. It is a negotiation between unequals: on the one hand, a highly concentrated banking sector, with a clear domain position — the five largest entities in Galicia concentrate 90% of the market, 50% in Spain and 60% in other European Union countries — and on the other hand, citizens are very affected by the economic crisis, in situations of difficulty and vulnerability and without financial training in most cases. So leading up to financial training programs would enable citizens to acquire knowledge that helps them when they have to hire a bank entity and make better decisions, training that would reduce that inequality. As Nelson Mandela would say, "Education is the most powerful weapon you can use to change the world." With regard to professionals, MiFID II itself requires financial and management advisers of financial product trading entities to have a certain level of training. We therefore agreed on the need to promote advisory mechanisms and also to evaluate compliance, which would allow for planning actions to correct such breaches. Unfortunately, the follow-up committee reports confirm what we already knew: that banking entities have adhered to the code of good practice but fail to comply with it, from there those sanctions that have already been referred to. Certainly the code of good practice did not yield good results. Those financial institutions that have and have very important benefits would have to put on their side to achieve a better escape from the crisis, as well as better treatment for consumers. But financial institutions are still opaque and abusive. And we're still awaiting further judgments in this matter. We are pending the European Union Court of Justice judgment on the mortgages on the IRPH. Regarding this issue, yesterday the Advocate General of that Court concluded that the IRPH is not transparent and can be abusive. This sentence may affect more than one million people. We're talking about the return of 50,000 million euros. With regard to point 3, financial exclusion is a social problem, so public action is important. The four Greek provinces lead the ranking in terms of increasing market concentration. The result, as has already been said, is that more than forty Greek municipalities have no bank offices or an automatic cashier. And financial exclusion in many cases is reinforced by the difficulty of accessing the Internet. If so, we have differences with regard to the fourth point — the Greek public bank — and that is why we are presenting the amendment of substitution that you already know. We therefore agree at most of the points of the motion, which focuses on the protection of consumers and also on their access to financial services, on all measures aimed at correcting inequalities, banking abuse and also preventing them from repeating themselves in the future. Of course, the Galician Union must take all the active steps that enable it to exercise its powers, and one of the ways in which it can act is consumer protection by defending its rights. With regard to the amendment tabled by the Joint Group, we agree on the merits, but the State has exclusive powers. Thank you very much, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Porritt. For the Joint Left Group, Mrs. Torregrosa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, this initiative seems to us, as a whole, that it is dealing with very different issues that they would give us in order to make different initiatives. Together we are going to support it, although the first point — which talks about the formation of citizenship, of users and users, to avoid being swindled — seems to us to believe that it is not a very good solution to the complexity of the parameters that are dealt with in each of the different managements that affect the banking theme. We believe, rather, that the administrations, both the Union and the Government of the State, should be required to use the resources they have to prevent fraud. If they acted when they were to act, we would not always find ourselves in the shameful situation that has been reported today, that European justice has to intervene, that it should correct and demonstrate the abuse of the bank's deception to consumers in our country. The Advocate General of the European Union has just diluted, in his report on the use, as has already been said, of the benchmark for mortgage loans, the necessary judicial control, since he estimates, among other things, the following: "It is complex and not transparent, and does not comply with the directives of the European unfair clauses. Of course, consumers are not sufficiently informed, there is abuse in every rule and it is up to the national judge to check the transparency of the contested clause and to verify all the circumstances surrounding the conclusion of the contract, and, on the one hand, if the contract transparently exposes the method of calculating the interest rate, so that the consumer is able to assess on the basis of precise and intelligible criteria the economic consequences." This is part of the extract of definitive valuation, which shows the situation so unjust that consumers in the bank are suffering from in Spain. IRPH fraud is just one more of the bank's long list of fraud. Greek citizenship, like that of the state as a whole, has also been misled by the fraudulent marketing of preferential shares, subordinated obligations, fraudulent outflows to the stock exchange, the manipulation of the eurobor, the abusive ground clauses, the collection of excessive commissions, the compulsory imposition of payment of all costs for the formalization of mortgages, the marketing in years of complex structured products which are no more than financial waste, the banking and real estate oligopolio which has sold mortgages for life and to pay an overvalued housing, the rejections, the embezzlement of having to pay with public resources the bailout of the financial system, the abusive remuneration of financial sector directors, both of rescued entities and others. It's an infinite line of accumulated scams that would rather require a citizen master to avoid being cheated in the banking jungle. This huge scam has a good deal of responsibility for the great recession that we have suffered since 2008 and which has caused a huge setback in the living and working conditions of the majority of society. The 60,000, or more than 60,000, million bailouts from the bank, according to Mr. Rajoy, would have no cost, and eventually we paid the citizens. Of course, we think it's aberrant that a public administration pays with the resources of the citizenry the services it refuses to offer to the bank because they are no longer profitable to it. The restructuring of the financial sector has left 41 Greek municipalities without bank or cashier, forcing their neighbours, about 52,000 people, to move. And Junta solved it again by making a deal of favor to the bank and paying those cashiers with public money. So, on the other subject, which is the topic of the public bank, of course, yes, of course, we think there has to be a public bank that regulates the oligopolie of the bank in our country. That public bank already exists. To establish it we must use all available instruments, including the banking entity that is already public itself: Bankia. Bankia must be maintained as a public bank, using this institution as a valuable tool to combat financial oligopolie, providing banking services to the population, acting on the financial market with ethical principles, recovering the identity signs of the banking business...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u109	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u110	...and the traditional role of intermediary between saving and investment projects for small and medium-sized enterprises, leaving aside speculation and financial engineering. And, in order to finish, we think that public administrations should act before the judges and, of course, long before they come from European justice to point out how they are robbing and abusing people on their feet to further privileged.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u111	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u112	We are for an ethical bank — it is over — that drives the economy of the country as a whole without scams, thefts or abuse. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Torregrosa. For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Romero Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u114	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. Well, Mrs. Presas, you finished your interrogation at the last plenary session saying that the BNG would bring this motion an alternative to all those municipalities that lack a bank office — yes, yes, read the Session Diary, he said — and to offer this service at no cost. And you didn't, Mrs. Presas, what you're asking is that this service be guaranteed to citizens but without placing money. Well, the Galician Union, in collaboration with Fegamp, is the one that will ensure that the entire population of Galicia has financial services in its county. In the 41 municipalities that do not have a financial institution, they will not only have an automatic cashier to carry out their regular management — such as withdrawal and income from money, card updates or receipt payments — but will also have two other services provided by the staff of the entity to whom the contract is to be helped: one is the citizen's custom financial assistance service, to resolve in a face-to-face manner the customer's doubts, and another is an e-bank training service for interested citizens to acquire basic notions to use banking services that are already available through new technologies. To spend to ensure a service that facilitates people's lives, not ladies and gentlemen, but to spend on studies and evaluation of recently implemented regulations, yes; as the evaluation required by the European Markets and Financial Instruments Directive, a regulation which, as you have just said, Mrs Presas, is only completed a few months ago. I did not intend to remind your lords that the regulation, control and supervision of financial institutions is a state and European, and not an autonomous one, but in view of the interventions, and even of the amendment of the Joint Group, it is necessary to do so again. Mr. Casal — and please do not take offense — what you are asking for is things the Ministry has to do. With regard to the basic accounts of financial services, we have already urged this Parliament to do so. The government of the PP, in Madrid, complied with them. And now it's up to Mr Sánchez's government to develop this regulation. Therefore, Mrs. Porrit, your speech is deeply shocked by the reality of Sánchez. The Galego Institute of Consumption and Competition will continue to carry out its task of advisory and information to all Greek consumers, as it has done to those affected by the preferences in the past, as it is doing today, to those affected by the ground clauses and as it will be done by those affected by the IRPH, of what has been said here, since it has just said the Advocate General of the European Court that it is not a transparent index and that it must be subject to judicial custody to know whether it is abusive or not, in contravention of the Spanish Supreme Court. And here is the parallel reality of the Socialist Group — Europe Press —: "Calvino is asking not to prejudice the opinion of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the IRPH and putting emphasis on the Spanish courts". He is disallowing the lawyer of the European Union. So, once the sentence is given, the Institute, as it has done in other cases, will transfer and advise all affected persons on how to enforce the rights recognized by the court. Ladies and gentlemen, you have no doubt that the PP and this parliamentary group will be next to those affected, whether one, fifty or one thousand. Whoever they are, they'll always be next to them. And to finish, Mr President, with regard to the alternative of financing, Mrs Presas, it is not necessary to convert Igape into a public bank to facilitate the momentum of investment, and much less Bankia. Government financial support for the German business fabric has, since 2014, led to the mobilization of 1,180 million euros, to the impulse of more than 1,500 projects and facilitated access to funding to 10,876 autonomous companies; aid that has reached all kinds of companies, but mostly to self-government and pemes. In particular, nine out of every 10 euros of funding were for this type of small businesses and entrepreneurs. And there is a funding plan for this year, to support 800 projects that will invest EUR 290 million in Galicia, paying special attention to entrepreneurs, micro-enterprises and pemes, with a fundamental objective of facilitating access to credit and achieving a multiplier effect of public funds. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. For the motion's own group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u116	First of all, I appreciate the constructive will of the opposition groups and, making mention of the central government, we have no drawback in incorporating the amendment of the Joint Group as an addition. In the case of the amendment of the Socialist Party, we will not accept it, because for us a central issue is to demand a Greek public bank. We respect the position of Podemos with respect to Bankia. I wish you luck in this day's negotiations because maybe they'll give us a surprise on that way. But in any case, that would not solve the problem we have in Galicia, which is that savings are emigration precisely to other power centres, as is the case with Madrid. And really, the entities that don't have a loyalty to our territory aren't having an accompanying role with the productive sectors as we would need. In any case, that is also true of other debates. And we also want the European lawyer's conclusions, although they are not binding, to open a new way for consumers. Focusing more on the matter of cash registers, Mrs. Romero, if the broader wording we included in the motion seems too wide for you, we make a change in you immediately. There are two alternatives: either you negotiate with Mr. Escotet to, instead of favouring him, demand that he have a proper network in our country or negotiate with the Central Government, for example, a modification of the Law 16/2009 of payment services, as was done in 2015, precisely to end or, rather, to put a top of commissions through the withdrawal of cash — although there is still a major problem with the commissions — or to launch an amendment as did the Central Government under Decree Law 19/2018, when there was late, ill and trace, to make that transposition of MiFID II. It's very simple, it's a matter of studying a ratio measurement for the territory and making a legal amendment that requires a minimum network. Because, behind the decision to eliminate cashiers and eliminate offices, what is a business decision, private enterprise, private bank with multimillionaire profits — I insist, 430, the bank record in the last public data — to keep saving costs. It's not that they're closing and breaking these bailouts with multimillionaire money from all the contributors. No, it's just a business decision and so we have to do a negotiation, not pay us the installation of those boxes. It seems like a lie that the Government itself, which does not have the slightest scruple in closing units because they are not economically profitable, in disloding rural health services, in making other issues by market rules, now wanting to give more public money to banking institutions. [[Applause]] That is entrepreneurship, and it is also entrepreneurship to the position of the president of the Fegamp, who does not represent the current leadership throughout the Fegamp or many people in this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u117	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u118	So we'll be watching with which is the creation of that text that will surprise us any day in the Official Journal of Galicia the Greek Government. But, of course, it's something that seems to us to be a mistake from every angle. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. G.P. motion. de In Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo, on the management of subsidies received by the Youth Farmers union
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u120	This motion was amended by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u121	To formulate the motion, Mrs. Quinteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u122	Thank you, President. Good morning. We are debating again for the third time in this Parliament on an issue which does not seem important to the People's Party, because it always avoids focusing on the issue. We believe it is important to clarify the possible favourable treatment that the Galician Union could have had with the Youth Farmers Union for a long time, and especially with former president Juan Pérez Miramontes. We bring it here because, as I have repeated many times, there are many indications that there were irregularities in the granting of these grants and in the actions that led the People's Party's Government forward with this union, and of course we believe that an exercise of transparency will always be positive. Because the reality is that, today, either for distaste or for bad performances, knowing that they were doing wrong, it was allowed that a heritage that had to be destined for activities of agricultural interest had been used for private use interests by Juan Pérez Miramontes. There was a signed agreement which stipulated that this subsidy should be used and that these premises should be used. The Youth Farmers union has repeatedly violated this agreement, and the Union has a direct responsibility because it has done absolutely nothing when they received the notifications. They consciously allowed a person to swallow a private credit, private interests, with the heritage he was of all, of all the Greeks and all the Greeks. I suppose today they're going to use the same falsical arguments as the rural councillor used in the other interventions. I'm just going to ask you to talk about the union that occupies the motion, which is the Youth Farmers Union, that does not try to divert your attention by talking about all the agricultural trade unions. Because the motion rightly deals with this union because it is the union of what there are signs of irregularities. In the rest of the cases the agreement has been met and that's why I ask you, at least, to adhere to this question. We didn't say that there were irregularities, that there were over-costs in buying these places and that there was notification to the Council of Galicia. Tell him the Board of Auditors. I suppose you're also going to tell me that you've applied for the reinstatement of more than two million euros, but the question is why you did it later, why you didn't ask for the reinstatement of these amounts of money, which you used this person for private interests, when you received the notification as Government. They applied for reintegration when the union was competing with creditors, and when they knew perfectly... well, then the rural councillor gave the wrong dates. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm glad. If you have other dates different from those of the Middle Rural Counsellor, then we can talk. But when they received the notice, when the Board of Auditors notes that they received the notice that they were going to change the title of these places, they did absolutely nothing. We are debating a motion today, it's not an interpellation or questions, but I have to take advantage of this intervention to ask the spokesperson of the People's Party some questions, because, as I tried to ask the Middle Rural Counsellor, he didn't want to answer me, I want to ask him whether you can explain to me what relations they have maintained and what relations they currently have with Juan Pérez Miramontes. And I'm asking you because the Rural Middle Councilman himself told us we had to ask the People's Party spokesman about this. Well, as you're here today talking about the People's Party spokesman, see if you can clarify this question. I think the argument the counselor used is pretty ridiculous. He says it's a relationship between a party and a private one. It's ridiculous because it's no party at all, it's the government party in Galicia, it's the councillor's own party, it's the People's Party. And besides this person is not a particular person but he is a person who received a lot of public money for a long time. And the Galician Union has to explain how these aids were managed. The bindings they had at the time are clear. I'd like to know what ties they have right now. And I say we have them clear because there are many images, there are pictures of the walks by boat, there are a lot of graphic documentation about the myths that this lord's Fraga has assembled. But what we want to make clear is the relationship they now have with this man and also if these ties — which are obvious and public — are not a matter of assuming, but they are, as I say, graphically collected in many photographs and news — were those who favored that it had been used, that it had been allowed to be used, public money in an improper way. Because it's not just the subject of the locals, it's also that, while there were labor complaints, there were workers' defaults, the People's Party's Party's board did absolutely nothing, they looked all the time at the other side. On the other hand, recently this man was arrested for allegedly financing a network of sexual exploitation of women and President Feijóo wished him luck and said he was not concerned at all about the subject. We also have to ask you, because the Rural Councilman has consistently refused to talk to us about this. For us these statements are intolerable, they are an insult to all women, and we believe that today they also have the opportunity to demarcate themselves and correct statements which, as I say, seem completely unacceptable to us; we cannot thus insult all women who suffer from sexual exploitation. And finally -- I've said it before -- I hope today they focus on talking about the Youth Farmers union, and I hope they don't use lies and evasives with numbers, as did the councillor. Because the truth is, it seems to us a disrespect that comes to this House to manipulate numbers without giving any real data. Lack of transparency is absolute. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, then you have a word turn and you can answer me. President Feijóo himself, when all this news came out, said that if there were any signs of irregularities in granting these subsidies, he was willing to open an investigation. For as the signs with many, as there are facts that show that there is a problem in the area, that this heritage was used for private use by Juan Pérez Miramontes and not for agricultural use, we understand that the People's Party must agree to open this investigation, because the president himself said "if there were any clues." I think the clues are more than proven. Open an investigation and then we can talk. If they have nothing to hide, we understand that they have no reason to vote against the motion that we bring today, which we understand to be minimal, so that there is finally transparency on all these grants that have been granted and on when the reintegration was requested — with papers found —. I honestly don't appreciate what you're going to say here because they lie shamelessly on many occasions. Yeah, yeah, I tell him because they always lie. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And what's worth to me is evidence that's real, not what they're going to say. The Rural Middle Councilman himself spoke of Bipartite grants when he knew he was talking about a property and real estate agreement, and he talked about grants. That lie that's so obvious, that's so obvious, they systematically make it, and they lie with a lot of things. Obviously what we ask for is an investigation that has evidence, not valuations, because they come here and most of the time they don't answer virtually anything. I'll leave it for now and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Pérez Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u124	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I'd like to begin my speech by saying something that Mrs. Quinteiro had now finished: the adviser in her speech in the plenary of July 10th mixed what subsidies are to agricultural organizations with returns from trade union heritage. And during my intervention, I'll try to talk about the difference between these two things. It was in the government chaired by Mr Pérez Touriño — that government of progress that you so criticise — when the agricultural organizations themselves gave to the Council of Galicia the union heritage they had at that time — about thirty million euros, since these organizations could not maintain all these real estates and that they did not use as a whole — even though some of these real estates were being used by the Council of Galicia itself. The said heritage consisted of buildings and land of the agricultural chambers, which was bought with money from the neighbors and neighbors who were engaged in agricultural activity. All this heritage was handed over to the Galician Union in exchange for an agreement by means of which agricultural organizations received a budget share of about two million euros. The different agricultural organisations have allocated this budgetary item to the purchase of premises to provide a service to the agricultural sector, but they are still of public ownership. It was from that moment on that when Youth Farmers used public ownership sites to grant private credits from their president, Mr Miramontes. That is to say, the Galician Council will allow Mr Miramontes to grant a private loan using a public ownership property — I insist on this concept. But once Youth Farmers come into competition, the bank stays with the premises that were under guarantee, so the Galician Union looked to the other side and let the bank stay with the locals. And we are not the socialists who blame Junta de Galicia for the situation of this organization, but rather the organization itself says, with date 12-05-2016: "The agribusiness union organization which grew under the aid of the fragusism comes into competition of creditors after admitting 1.5 million euros of debts to which it blames the Board of Feijóo". From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we tabled an amendment to the second point, since this agricultural organisation will be in competition with the contestant administrator on the establishment of the credit ratio and the distribution of goods. From the Galician Parliament we must urge and ensure that the Galician Union fulfils its obligations. That's why our amendment says, "To ensure that the union heritage, according to the cooperation agreement between the Rural Environment Council and the agricultural professional organizations, is used by the agricultural service." In the event that our amendment is not accepted, we shall request the vote on points. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u125	Thank you, Mr. Pérez Seco. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u126	Thank you, President. The former president of the agricultural union Youth Farmers, Mr. Pérez Miramontes, was arrested for being part of a women's network. This delinquent financed the plot that caught victims in Paraguay through a travel agency. I think we can sum up everything there. It's a little annoying. In 2016 he used public money subsidised by the Board for the purchase of premises. I didn't do agricultural trade unionism, but I prevarinated it with the money of all of us. What did he do to Junta then? He said they had no knowledge of the unionist's linkage with the real estate, something that the Board of Auditors later denied, since it had been communicated to him by his own audit team. He asked the Left Joint Group, in the appeal to the Counsellor, what relationship Mr. Pérez Miramontes had with the People's Party, and the current group of the Government of Galicia. Well, I think this picture summarizes everything. [[Mr. Rodríguez Estévez shows a picture to the House.]] The agricultural union Youth Farmers — an ancient and powerful agricultural branch of the German People's Party — was finally dissolved by a Lugo trial there in mid-2016. And he made him drowned in debt to the staff, debts to the bank, debts to the Fairy, debts to the Social Security, and to his president, Mr. Miramontes, accusing the People's Party's Party itself of not paying him everything he was promised. This former agricultural trade unionist — if you can call it that — and also an entrepreneur — who for years went out in photos spending his summers in Sanxenxo on his own yacht along with the major plan of the People's Party, led by the former president of the Government of Spain, Mr. Mariano Rajoy — was arrested in the framework of an international operation against trafficking in women, which linked this progeny to financing this network. True, Mr. Pérez Miramontes had been off the front line for a while, probably already separated by the People's Party itself when he saw where he was sailing. It didn't happen that way during the years that he was in front of Youth Farmers, a structure that began to resent the beginning of the economic crisis, when the June grants began to stop running with so much intensity. However, that closure of the bill was not an impediment for the union and the Miramontes themselves to continue to benefit from the Board of Auditors, according to the Council of Auditors, which oversees the Greek public accounts. In this scenario, union staff — who came to use more than 150 people — began protesting about payroll defaults. As Miramontes was riding in luxury cars and walking on yacht with Mr. Rajoy, people were not paid for the work he was doing. Their relationship with the People's Party already recognized it: "If we've had something to do with political issues before, the new design goes on a different path. You will not have any political connotation in any way." That's what Mr. Miramontes said in the official magazine of Youth Farmers, in the missing union, when they were beginning to not be very close to the president. He stated, therefore, that "the times in which acts were organized as on the eve of the Galician elections of that 2005 had ended," when Mr. Miramontes joined more than twenty-five thousand people in Silleda to former President Mr. Manuel Fraga. And he literally said, "We had to stop Galicia from falling into the madmen's hands." In short, Juan Pérez Miramontes is a friend of Rajoy and Feijóo, among others. The friend is elected president of the Agrarian Union, next to the People's Party, Youth Farmers. The friend buys a yacht. Rajoy, Ana Pastor and other Popular Party officials sail the sea on the friend's yacht. The friend charges Youth Farmers drowned in debt to staff, to Fatanda, to Social Security, to banking entities, with a puppie of more than one and a half million euros. The friend is arrested by a pimp and Feijó wishes good luck to the pimp friend. Friends of the friend don't remember whether they ever went with him on the yacht, whether they went to the peaks of Europe, or whether they went to Andorra for yards. They only remember that there was snow. You have memory. Let's see what they vote for now. We're going to vote that. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u127	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u128	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. It was absolutely essential that, in the face of the fair demands of farmers, farmers and an agricultural sector that woke up from the sleep of franchiseism, in the face of that grasp of class consciousness and historical justice, someone calmed the spirits and turned the waters to the Frankist channels of whom, of course, they should never have left. And here appears Youth Farmers, an organization, let's say, agrarian union service to the interests of the Frankish right represented at that time by People's Alliance. In reality, a mafia cut-off organization that got all sorts of subsidies, dwindled consciences, looked for jobs, and that, with training courses and shopping places, he derived generous public money from his dome's accounts and personal assets — and who knows if the AP-covered funding, which was then PP-. The courses really gave at least what they were meant to be: to train farmers and farmers, to modernize. That's it, that's it! The yacht The Peregrina and its visitors measured this agricultural union and the concept and estimated that the People's Party has for rural Galicia, because it was the union of the PP, the organization created to neutralize the demanding movements that arose in the field and for that task needed, like no!, a good financing. These maneuvers and these ways of acting, this way of dilapidating public money, that survival of caciquil management, are an approximation to the causes of rural abandonment and the deplorable state of agricultural activity today. It's not yesterday, it's always, because the reality of the rural world has to do with that picture that we tell them and is alive in the enough photographs that can be found in the newspapers. Don Ramón del Valle Inclán would have a theme for his spooks. Too bad of the death of his bravery, because there, in the air, we could see the greatest plane of the PP, from Ana Pastor to Mr. Louzán. This organization, which had been born and grown—and had grown up!—with that minister of natural Franc of Vilalba, finally admitted to having EUR 1.5 million in debt and his dome — now yes— throwing pestilences upon those who had given them everything. On top of it, ungrateful. As is commonly said, raise crows and your eyes will eat. But the work was done: to help sow the confusion and division in Galicia's agricultural and livestock trolley. That free fall, that bloody closure of family farms, had been encouraged by the new model that advocated the new rich and the old cacians, that only the great farms save in this Europe from global trade. There was Youth Farmers justifying and encouraging this outcome, worthy of the agrarian reality of frankism and populism of the right race. His sacred mission was to preserve the "you will do", the bites in subsidies, the growth of friends and co-religionaries, go away!, which you all know, in addition to preaching with the example, because they didn't pay the banks either to the Public Fair or to the Social Security or, as we've already said, to the workers. The law wasn't with them. And we'll have to ask for the public goods expropriated to the peasants and peasants of this country and demand their return to their legitimate owners. And, of course, you'll have to follow the money footprints and clean up responsibilities. And so — a little while ago — one of the dark business of this respectable Mr. Owner of a luxury yacht and influential friends — or no more — comes out in public. And his friends would end up well-placed. We're going to see him secondly open up to justice. It's not a current charge, it's a serious charge: trafficking in women. The more justice we open, the more we will know about the severity of metastasis shown in the judgment of computers. For now we have been announced the survival of these friends with the President's "lucky wish". And would it be for his accountability with justice or...? Of course you made it clear that "like any other rooster," it's not gonna be that... Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u129	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. White Paradelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u130	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as Mr. Rivas Cruz was concerned, I was thinking of that picture on Mr. Quintana's boat with the flag of Spain in the back of the river. It's just that there's photos sometimes... but, well, it's best not to comment on it. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Quinteiro, look at one thing, I don't know if you wanted me to go out and talk, because you already said, "I'm going to say," "but don't tell me, because I'm lying," "because the data isn't worth..." Actually, I can take the counsellor's intervention and do it for granted. Because you don't know what you expect me to tell you. Am I gonna lie? Am I going to say things that aren't true? The counsellor was very clear and very forceful in both his interventions and informed in detail of the aid. I'll repeat it again. Look, Mrs. Quinteiro, I think this initiative is late, but very late. Or, rather, it comes to other matters that have nothing to do with them. And they do it to take advantage of the opportunity to try to pull out some party income for a group that needs it very much — yes, theirs — after the failure and rupture of the internal struggles and personal ambitions that you've had. You accuse the current U.S. government of favor treatment of this union, and you tell me to give data. I'll give you data. Look, the current Government of Galician Union has treated all trade unions equally. And you were talking about clues. I'll tell you reality and try to disassemble your fallacy. First of all, if there were to be such a treatise on behalf of the People's Party, it would have had to have given him the greatest amount of money in a year. False. The year Youth Farmers received more help from the Board was 2008, with the Bipartite (EUR 850,000). I see you're upset. [[Murmurs.]] Secondly, it is supposed that during the whole stage of the People's Party Government it would have to be the most benefited union. False. It turns out that during the four years of the Bipartite this entity received more than 2.5 million. In six years, until 2014, the Government of the People's Party receives 2.3, close to 200,000 euros less in six years. Third, in a favor deal, you benefit each other and intentionally you harm others. False. If we compare — as we're not going to compare! — the subsidies with the rest of the unions, I remind you that the Bipartite gives Youth Farmers 2.5 million — Mr Rivas, you, the BNG, to cut down mobsters 2.5 million — and the Government of the People's Party, 2.3 in six — you in four —. The Labour Union, with the Bipartite, was 2.4 million, with the Government of the People's Party, 2.7 million. The Agrarian Unions, with the Bipartite, were 2.5 million and during the People's Party Government a total of 2.6 million. Where's the favor deal? Fourthly, following the supposed favourable treatment, this union welcomes the competition law in May 2016 and it turns out that the Government of the People's Party has not only granted it no further assistance since 2014, but that since the end of that same year it has begun opening different reintegration files for non-compliance with the destination of the sites acquired for the maintenance of activities of agricultural interest, which in total amounts to EUR 2,100,912. Another falsehood. Fifthly, it's a welcome treatise that in which the union leader — as you and Mr. Pérez Seco have said — turns out that, once the organization comes into a creditor contest in 2016, it blames the Feijóo Board for its own disaster. But wasn't he our friend? How can it be? He gets a favor deal and it turns out he said it was our fault, and he talks about a 2008 deal! Maybe you should clarify those agreements. Ladies and gentlemen, a curious favour. I wanted to ask you, Mrs. Quinteiro, if what people do who have a relationship with a party has to extend to the activities or the life of a party. Home!, maybe other groups, like yours, if they know what it's like to ask for a favor deal. Because, for example, some Members or Members on one night of those fun with fellow militiamen have been immersed in incidents caused by car damage, urban furniture, insults and so on. And when the police try to identify them by requiring documentation, the agents have to listen: I'm a Member, you have to know that I have a special regime, I'm going to file a parliamentary inquiry for police action. That's a favor deal, Mrs. Quinteiro! By the way, by the way, that interpellation I don't think has ever come to this House, and without a doubt it would be much more productive than it has brought today. [[Applause]] I'm done. They don't confuse desires with reality. You know that the whole matter of Youth Farmers is in judicial headquarters and through various avenues. So right now, the best thing we can do is let justice do its work. Whatever happens to him or not to what was the president of the union is an individual subject, of which only he is responsible, and which will be dealt with in the trials. And on the other hand, I would like to express on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group our round condemnation and total rejection of those people who are engaged in something as bad and hateful as illegal trade and treatment with human beings, and all our solidarity especially with all the women who, surely in the idea of improving their living conditions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u131	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u132	...are deceived and exploited by mobs of totally hateful people. And, of course, whoever they are, who falls upon them all the weight of the law. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u133	Thank you, Mr. Blanco. For the motion's own group, Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u134	First I want to thank the Galician Nationalist Block and the Joint Group for their support. We accept the amendment of the Socialist Party because we understand that it does not alter the central issue of our point 2. And then, the truth is, I thought it was more indecent than the Middle Rural Counsellor on this subject could not be. But you always have to get someone to prove that you're still less ashamed. Because if you condemn all these people who engage in sexual exploitation of women, because you condemn the words of your president, Mr Feijóo, who wished you luck. That doesn't condemn him, that has absolutely nothing to say, from a person who wished him luck. Well, speak and see if those inappropriate words are rectified. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because he also said it was a problem that didn't interest him at all. Well, as you can't worry a friend of yours, a person who received a lot of public money from the People's Party, a person who was treated with favor! And I'm going to tell you what kind of favor I'm dealing with. I'm not trying to give you more money than the other trade unions -- they are sometimes neglected, but in this case because they were a little more hidden -- I'm trying to help you to allow the money that had to be used for agricultural interest activities, Mr. Pérez Miramontes had bought places for himself, had bought a yacht, had gone for a walk, he had not paid the workers, he had a lot of job complaints... that's the deal of favor: to allow this man to do with the money he had given the real want and do as he didn't have anything to do. That's a favor deal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u135	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u136	They lie again. They lie without any kind of shame, they lie systematically. It's nothing new. But it remixes the Bipartite collaboration agreement with the grants. They have nothing to do with it. How are we going to think that you have any respect for this House and that you have any respect for the truth when you're lying in such a clear, obvious way? It's a signed agreement. It's a pity I don't have the copy here. Then I'll give you a copy, though I'm convinced you know it but it's much better to say that the Bipartite was the government that most grants gave to Youth Farmers. It's much better, but it's a lie, it's a lie! It's a lie, it's a collaboration agreement with locals who know perfectly well that they belonged to agricultural chambers. [[Strong murmurers.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u137	Silence, Mr. Pazos!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u138	It has absolutely nothing to do with each other. To try to mix it up is to treat the Members of this House and also the whole citizenship of idiots, in my opinion, because it is to mix everything completely. There were overcosts on the real estate, I knew it; there were changes in ownership on the real estate, I knew it; and there were payrolls. What did they do? It's a favour not to do anything when this person was using the heritage of all of them, the heritage of the Galician Union, for their private interests and private interests. And he says that the personal relationship doesn't have to do with friends. Man, the pictures in the walks, the rally that organized them -- because it put a lot of people in a rally -- so they were friends, what happens is that they should see that they weren't so interested in being such friends. But a person who is not a friend is not expected to be lucky, neither is he nor any person who is arrested for alleged sexual exploitation of women. And you haven't corrected those words. They can condemn trafficking in women. Why don't you condemn those words? Why aren't they clear on such a simple subject? The president was wrong, he had a completely unfortunate word because obviously I guess he wouldn't want to get hurt with this man...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u139	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u140	...who knows a lot about the People's Party because it's its agricultural branch. And about the favor deals, next time, if we ever talk about this subject, I'd ask them not to lie with such skepticism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u142	We are voting on the motions, after the debate on them. Close the doors, please. We begin by voting on the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, on the initiative of Donna Noa Presas on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to the protection of people from Greek financial products. The amendment of the Joint Parliamentary Group is accepted as an addition and the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not accepted. [[Let me give the floor to Mrs. Pierres López.]] Yeah? Give a voice to Mrs. Pierres's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u143	Mr President, we call for a point of order. On the one hand, points 1, 2 and 3 and, on the other hand, points 4, 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u144	Do you accept, Mrs. Presas? [[Mrs. Presas Bergantiños answered yes.]] Thank you. We begin by voting points 1, 2 and 3 of the motion. Vote for points 1, 2 and 3 of the transactional text of the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantiños, on the policy of the Government of Galicia in relation to the protection of people from Greek financial products. The vote was taken and resulted in the following: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These points are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u145	We now vote points 4, 5 and 6 of the motion. Vote for points 4, 5 and 6 of the transactional text of the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantiños, on the policy of the Government of Galicia in relation to the protection of people from Greek financial products. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 17 votes against, 38; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. These points of the motion are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u146	We are now voting on the motion from the Left Joint Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mrs Paula Quinteiro, on the management of subsidies received by the Youth Farmers union. He has already commented that he accepted the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Vote of the compromised text of the motion of the G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo, on the management of subsidies received by the Youth Farmers union. The vote was taken and resulted in the following: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u147	We suspended the session until 4.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u148	Good afternoon. We resume the session with point 2, of accumulated appearances, at the request of the Counsellor and of the parliamentary groups of the Joint Left Group, the Galician Nationalist Block and the Joint Group. Cumulative debate The opinion of Mrs. Environmental, Territory and Housing Advisor, on his own request, to report on the current situation of the Ons Island access system by neighbours and neighbours The opinion of Mrs. Environmental Adviser, Territory and Housing, at the request of the GGs. PP. in Marea, the Galego Nationalist Block and the Mixto, to account for the criteria established for the access of visitors to the island of Ons, in the National Park of the Atlantic Islands, and the restrictions on the access of Ons people and others to those who have a relationship of kinship or friendship
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u149	Mrs. Vázquez Mejuto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u150	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, neighbors and neighbors of Ons, I come today, on my own request, before this chamber with the objective of clarifying what is the current situation of access to the National Park Atlantic Islands by visitors, but also by residents, to explain the steps taken up to this time and the criteria used in the preparation of the National Park's Master Plan for Uses and Management of the Atlantic Islands, and more specifically to shed light on the whole of the Ons Islands, which since this year and after the entry into force of the PRUX have had a limited share of access. A necessary coupon, a necessary coupon, to order access to this protected space in a sustainable and responsible way, avoiding possible massifications and damage to the natural heritage. My only goal with this appearance, which was also requested by almost all opposition groups, except the PSOE, is to be able to resolve any doubts about it. So, given everyone's logical concern about the management and protection of a unique natural space in the world, I think it's important to clarify all aspects of which there may be any kind of doubt, because in recent weeks there has been a confusion and an alarm that — I believe — is totally unnecessary between the neighborhood of the area. I would also like to take this opportunity to call on all the political groups and municipal representatives, institutional responsibility and respect; especially for the neighbors and the neighbors of Ons, which is respect for the neighbors and neighbors of Bueu. And I would like us all to show today in this chamber a clear and explicit stance on the need to protect with all the tools that we have at our disposal the only national natural park with which Galicia has been counting since 2002. A protection that must bring together the guarantee, and at the same time in a balanced way, between conservation, public use and activity generated by the neighbours. Finally, the most important thing for all the Greeks and the Greeks that represent the Galician Union is the duty to ensure the protection of our natural heritage, but also the duty to ensure the well-being of the neighbors and neighbors of Ons, always respecting the rights of those neighbours, men and women, boys and girls, children, who lived and inhabited this island. A question on which I believe that all parliamentary groups should agree, beyond political criteria or beyond local criteria. I'm talking about ensuring the conservation and protection of the Galician Isles Atlantic National Park, the only national park with which our community has been operating since 2002 and which, no doubt, is the jewel of the crown of the protected natural spaces with which Galicia counts. It has an area of 8,480 hectares, of which 1,194 are terrestrial and the rest are marine, and which stands out for its enormous environmental, landscaped value and also for its biodiversity, being, in addition, an element of great importance and symbolism in the Galician geography. Not in vain is one of the fifteen protected spaces in all of Spain that deserves the designation of national park; something that reflects the enormous environmental, natural, landscape and biodiversity value of this space. As you know, the National Park is composed of four archipelagos, which are Cíes, Ons, Salvora and Cortegada, unique park: Cíes, Ons, Salvora and Cortegada. Cites, surface area: 2,658 hectares of sea, 433 hectares of land; Ons islands: 2,171 sea, 470 land; Salvora island: area 2,309 hectares of sea and 248 hectares of land, and Cortectada — no less important — with an extension of 43 hectares of land and 147 hectares of sea. Four archipelagos that make up a unique set in the world and which, in my judgment, cannot be understood separately, and neither was this understood in 2002. In addition, the National Park has numerous protection figures: it is a special area of protection of natural values, it is a special conservation area of the Cyes Islands, it is ZEC complex Cyes-Ons, it is ZEPA Cyes Islands, it is ZEPA Rías Baixas, special bird protection area of the island of Ons. With regard to biodiversity, it stands out that there are thirty-eight habitats of community interest, have registered one hundred and fifty-eight species protected from flora and fauna and treasure unique seabeds that host ecosystems of high ecological value. A protected space that has knowledge that transcends our borders and that already enjoys numerous distinctive features that give evidence of its singularity: it is the Starlight certification, sponsored by UNESCO; it is the Observer stamp, of scientific tourism; it is the OSPAR certification, of protection of the marine environment; or the fact that one of its islands, specifically that of Salvora, has the declaration of good cultural interest, in the natural landscape mode. A national park where the Galician Union invests annually about a million euros, ensuring water, light, garbage collection and proper maintenance of existing facilities on the island, which I don't mean is that they are not improved, and that they need to be improved, and that we're working for that. This protected space needed a management tool — and you know it, because it has often been claimed in this parliament, but it has also been claimed many times locally — in which all the aspects needed to ensure maximum conservation of protected natural space were determined. A PRUX which is a planning instrument and also a protection instrument, which all national parks have, and which in case they do not have, would lead to the withdrawal of the environmental protection figure that requires a national park; especially, to regulate visits they receive year by year, using strictly technical criteria, which take into account the burden capacity of the islands, their biodiversity and their natural values. So after many months of work, Junta developed the first Master Plan for Uses and Management of the National Park; a document that was the result of consensus and coordinated work with many agents that, in one way or another, are related to this space. In fact, in the process of public information, we received eighty-five allegations, and we accepted sixty-two: two of the state administration, three of the autonomous administration, two of the local administration, eleven of the ecologists, seventeen of the fishermen and seafarers, nine of the public-use entities, five of the shipowners, seven of the researchers, five of the entrepreneurs and eighteen of the citizens, who in particular were able to make their claims. In particular, the allegations made by the Association of Neighbors San Xaquín had an impact on the quota in which a wider one was possible in the consideration of neighbors; the extreme that was accepted, since the aforementioned consideration goes from Tataranos to tataranets of the concession holders, which was still extended to brothers and also spouses. We broadened the concept of neighbours, when, in fact, neighbours would be unique and exclusively the bottlenecks. This was the only claim with regard to the neighbours, since the rest of the allegations either focused on tourist criteria, or on more protectionist and conservation criteria. We are undoubtedly faced with an indispensable tool, which will generate and reject this protected space for the next ten years. And it was submitted to the Preceptive Report — because it says so — by the Ministry of Ecological Transition, who has issued a favourable report, and also by the Cogama, which is the Galeco Environment Council. It was done at the end of 2018, coming into force in February of the same year after its adoption by the Board of Trustees, which is the last step. In short, we are facing a real roadmap, detailing the goals and management criteria of the National Park. The rules for the protection and regulation of use are laid down, the zoning of the park is defined and the proposed actions are signed for the next decade in the field of conservation of public use, research and monitoring of works, and it also includes an economic estimate for that decade of investment vigil which is worth 27 million euros. No doubt, one of the main developments in this plan is the determination of the new access coupons to the islands that make up the park, to each of the islands that make up the park. So all of the islands that compose it have access limits both in the high season and in the low season. All with the main and primary objective of ensuring the conservation of the park and combining it with the development of sustainable tourism and the everyday life of its neighbours. Thus, in high season, one thousand eight hundred visitors for the general summit, six hundred for the camp and two hundred for groups. And for the first time for the island of Ons, there's a coupon of visitors located in one thousand three hundred people for general access, three hundred for the camping — although for now only Tourism has weighed two hundred nine — and two hundred for guided groups in high season. The high season ends on September 15. What we want is to avoid tourist massifications and put the landscape and environmental values of this national park at risk. And we also want to protect the neighbours and neighbours of the island; hence it includes a specific safety plan and also emergencies that they have not so far had. These access coupons, which are working properly during this summer, are not a whim — I believe, ladies and gentlemen — but at all they are a whim of the Galician Union, it is an obligation of the Galician Union. Since they come determined by technical reports that assess human pressure in each of the four archipelagos that make up the park and that these can withstand. These quotas were defined on the basis of criteria of international use: land surface, type of infrastructure, beaches, roads, public-use area, ecosystems and the services of each area, which are also being applied in the rest of the national parks — a total of fifteen in Spain. In this way, you can remember in this chamber that national parks such as the Doñana park or what the Teide National Park can be like have restricted access, how it can't be otherwise; or the Cabrera National Park, which also sets quotas through the foundations. And so I'm a protective measure for the national park all over it. And, in addition, this is an essential tool for continuing to preserve what, undoubtedly, is the main exponent of our natural heritage. That in no case endangers, never endangers the recognised rights of the owners of the dwellings existing on the island of Ons. That is why I believe that access coupons to the national park are an indisputable and irrevocable issue for proper management of protected space, because there has to be a system of access with defined criteria, and these are technical criteria, which allow the management and conservation of the national park, now and forever, for us and for the next generations. And this is something we've already had in the National Park since your approval, since the PRUX's approval, and that's working properly. From the Board, I believe that we are open to polishing some aspects, but I want to make it clear that the access system is something that is irrevocable. If you consult the PRUX itself of the National Park, which has been informed -- and I have said it before and I continue to say it -- by the Ministry of Ecological Transition -- because if not, we could not approve the PRUSS -- this collects in its text that the neighbors who believe their condition if they respect their free access to the island; understanding by neighbors, not the crippled ones, but also the fourth generation; understanding by neighbors the brothers, understanding by neighbors their spouses. So the Ons neighbors and neighbors can freely access the island any day of the year, as long as they believe their condition. And this is what we transferred to the representatives of neighbors in numerous contacts and on numerous occasions, in which, on occasion, the mayor of Bueu and other representatives was the mayor; and on other occasions they came in particular. Once we had a line of constant dialogue with those Ons neighbors, because it's true that at first the brothers and their spouses weren't there, and we were moving forward. A line which, as it cannot be otherwise, remains open, since we are always willing to sit with them and listen to their requests, the people who pass or live or go to the island. But always having as a framework the protection and conservation of the national park and, of course, agree to make the application unique or at least similar. Since June we are aware of the special situation of Ons' neighbours and we are acting accordingly, for we know that they are neighbors of an island which is a natural good and that this has benefits, but we also have to meet certain obligations. I insist, and as explained to them from the very first moment: Ons' neighbours have freedom to enter and leave all year round, aside from the general coupon, and even those days where the limit of authorization is covered. And so they were guaranteed from the beginning, and it's being fulfilled, and different mechanisms were put together so that this could be done. However, it is clear that some verification system has to be applied since June to ensure that in this free access space to Ons for neighbours there is control over it. That's why, and to facilitate their access to people who permanently or sporadicly reside there throughout the year, a free meat has been made available from the Board. A meat which, in addition, is shipped in a few hours, in which the neighbor's condition is collected. That guarantees their exclusion from the general coupon. A meat which is at the disposal of the holders of the seventy-nine concessions on the island, of their sisters and their relatives to the fourth degree, i.e., Tataravos — who wish they had — and Tataranets included. And of what today was issued about 300 such credentials. In addition, Ons concession holders can reserve six overnight squares linked to their homes, a place for friends or family members who are not entitled to the sheepmeat. Of course, those six squares are removed from the general coupon, because there is a burden that is indisputable, with technical criteria and with approval by the Ministry. And you can also access neighbors and neighbors who believe their condition through the presentation of a census certification issued by the Bueu Town Hall, or that in the DNI it appears that their residence is in Ons, and if not through the meat that we issue to you that you believe to be neighbor. They will therefore agree with me that there are multiple ways to gain free access to the island, for all those who have a link to the island: dealers, neighbors and people bottled up in Ons, and also to their relatives and friends. If there is no way the neighbors believe their condition in any way the described could not be assured that the people who access the island are neighbors of the island of Ons. These rights of the neighbours are fully protected for this reason, and so it is believed by Auto 94/2019 of the High Court of Justice, in which it is said that "It is uncertain that the daily burden limits on the island may affect residents, considering that the PRUX itself excludes them, so they can access and abandon the island without the right of freedom of residence includes the right to be visited by relatives and friends. When you live in a privileged environment with restricted access, this privilege undoubtedly involves the burden of managing authorization to access the island." This is a car, 94/2019 from the High Court of Justice. That's why it can't be said that the Galician Union discriminates against Ons' neighbours and neighbors, neighbors and neighbors of Bueu, or that you don't listen, because that's not true. In fact, we're still open to listening to the neighborhood representatives, but please agree. We're still open to listening to the Bueu Town Hall and the representatives of the neighbors, but please agree. And we'll sit with them whenever we need them. But what we can't give up — and I say again — is in no way to have a system of access through coupons, but in addition to that it was something that all parliamentary groups were asking for, it was something that was also asked from the municipalities that affect this national park. I'm willing to listen to all possibilities and value them. And if there's a thousand people linked to the island, that is, if you think there's a thousand Ons neighbors, I'm told. We can't suddenly skip the load, but what we do is get out of the general coupon and put them as neighbors. Neighbors, you're the first. So, if there's a thousand neighbors, I think we're going to get the corresponding certification from those thousand neighbors. [[Applause]] The situation would be totally balanced. So far we have a thousand three hundred people in general, we have three hundred people for the camp, we have two hundred people for organized groups and, apart from us, we have neighbors; we estimate of neighbors that up to now are three hundred fifty meats. Do you think there are a thousand neighbors? What we're doing is we're keeping it from the general coupon and passing it to the neighbors. What we can never skip is the technical criteria approved by the Environmental Council technicians, approved by the Ministry of Ecological Transition and approved by the Board of Trustees. We are undoubtedly in front of a system that is working or should work properly and fulfill its function, as demonstrated by this same summer you will be about to finish. A few months in which 240,944 people visited the Cyes and Ons islands through the access coupons established by the PRUX. Of them, 156,502 were in Cyos and 84,442 were in Ons. As for the dome on the island of Ons, it was completed four days in July. As for the coupon, I can also tell you that when it takes less than a week to close the high season, which closes on the 15th, there are no thousands of people who have reserved their corresponding authorization. Ladies and gentlemen, although it is obvious, but given the success and talk in recent weeks, I think it is necessary to make clear that these access coupons to the national park exist, we can change them from place to place, exist and they will continue to exist. And this will be so regardless of what happens to the candidacy of the UNESCO declaration of the heritage of humanity, of which much has been spoken in the last few days. It has nothing to do with the candidacy. Even if there's no application, there's a coupon because there's a Plan of Uses and Management. And it's good not to cheat. It's good not to cheat, because in the end, it will pass the time and give us the remorse. What happens is that the neighbors will live and the politicians will leave, but we'll do them a weak favor. That's why I want to take this opportunity to reiterate once again that this candidacy has nothing to do with the access limitations introduced to visit the national park, neither at the Cydes, nor at the Ons, nor at Salvora, nor at Cortegada. And I also want to make it clear that this candidacy in case of prosperity would have no additional effect on access restrictions that are now in force. Another thing I think we have to clarify is that the Board is the only official candidacy that is presented to the competent bodies for its processing. A candidacy that integrates the four islands that make up the National Park. A candidacy that is real, because it was presented in time and form following legally established channels. A candidate that is collective, which brings benefits both to the municipalities where they are and to all of Galicia. It is a serious candidacy that we present to the Spanish ambassador before UNESCO and the Minister of Culture. In short: it is a candidacy of the National Park, it is a candidacy of four municipalities, it is a candidacy of Galicia, and it presents the National Park as a whole, without excluding any of the islands that make it up, because they all have a great value, guaranteeing the principle of the integrity of the good, which constitutes one of the elements that UNESCO takes into account for the declaration of the heritage of humanity. All the islands are different, but they integrate a unique set in the world, respecting in this way the environmental and administrative unit that represents the National Park. A candidacy that meets the criteria of selection established by the UNESCO World Heritage Committee and which from the very first moment was born with the desire to add up to all the territories involved, and thus to build from the consensus a strong candidacy of the country. This candidacy will assume, if achieved, benefits to the National Park and also benefits to the neighbours of the four municipalities, as well as benefits to the neighbors and neighbors of Ons. For example, to benefit from the aid that has been granted by the Ministry of Culture since 2007 for the management of goods declared by UNESCO. Aid that can be used for multiple purposes, such as conservation and restoration activities, the development of management plans, the conduct of studies, organizations and meetings, the production of publications; ultimately, any activity that contributes to the conservation, protection and dissemination of our heritage. And for twelve years now, they have been able to mobilise 17.7 million euros for the improvement and protection of the goods declared by UNESCO. I think the debate here should be clarified, but I think this is going further. And it goes further after we've made all the follow-up lately. And it's no longer UNESCO's or UNESCO's candidacy, it's presented. What is being questioned after fighting — and especially among politicians, because the neighbours are the sufferers of what we politicians do — is whether we want national park yes or no. Because that's what we put on the table seems to be that some people don't want national park. We would be making history, ladies and gentlemen; we would be the only ones at European level who would be saying no to a national park. The question is serious, and it is a question that we must answer, and besides that we must answer between ourselves and those who are listening to us. And is it that 17 years after your statement, do we want national park or not? Because if we want to fight for him, if we want to fight for his conservation, if we want to have a PRUSE, there's nothing else left, and we have to put the measures in place. But if we want it, who says the measures to be taken are the technicians, we are not the politicians. And the coupons are essential, and there's nothing else left. It's here and it's in the rest of Spain, and it's in the rest of Europe. But, of course, all of this has jumped through the air, they don't think anything else because Abel Caballero comes into play, who -- as one neighbor of Ons said in a statement to the media -- "doesn't have to pee on this subject." The only conclusion that you can get out of everything that has happened in the last few weeks is that the mayor of Vigo wants for his county, and I don't know if for his county — I have my doubts — what he doesn't want for Bueu. Because, then, we say: heritage yes to Vigo, the Cies, but Ons doesn't and Bueu neither. It's something that's unheard of. The mayor of Vigo wants to dynamize this candidacy by all means because he is fully aware that it is the only way he is being presented right now. But why do we have that mania to want to take this little thing for me just when it's a national park for everyone and the benefits are for everyone? And do you have to make sacrifices? Of course. And do you have to face it? Of course. But that can be achieved through dialogue and, at the same time, technical studies, of course. And in the meantime, the Bueu gardener has been watching how Abel Caballero wanted to organize his Town Hall and also the Ons. And the one of Vilagaría at first said, "Yes, yes, of course, to shoot forward, but then he spoke Abel Knight and kept silent, as to the candidacy he referred to. That's why I have nothing left but asking for seriousness. One thing is the political struggles and the other thing is that we're all in the lurch and, finally, there's a terrible confusion where, in fact, how won't the neighbors be worried if we leave every day with a different political holder? And, in the end, who do they believe? Well, I'm here to give my face, I'm here to say what's going on, and besides, there's an approved plan that's public, where we could also participate in all parliamentary groups, also all the municipalities. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, there is no kind of veto on the part of the Galician Union to the neighbors and the neighbors of Ons, for they can continue to enter and leave the island freely every day of the year; we have to believe it in some way. So, but you don't want a meat and you want a letter, let's put a letter on the table, but you have to believe it's a neighbor, because if you don't, someone will end up supplanting their identity, and there's no control over the coupon we've established. So they'll all have guaranteed access to this unique enclave in Galicia at the moment they want it. But what we can't forget about any kind of thing is that we're talking about a unique natural space. Therefore, the duty of the Galician Union is one, and it is to preserve it, by duly regulating access to it and by making it compatible with the disclosure of our heritage wealth with the protection of its surroundings and the coexistence of its neighbours. But in no case is it forbidden or will it be forbidden to enter the neighbours, in no case will there be any major changes made, because the PRUSE is there for you to see. What is established is a series of conditions for visitors, but that you want fewer visitors and more neighbors, for we will say fewer visitors and more neighbors; the neighbors are the first. Some access coupons that, as I said, are essential and non-negotiable in numbers. Let us cross, if we wish; in number they are essential and they are not negotiable. And in those coupons the neighbors don't come in, of course. If there's suddenly a thousand neighbors, we have to see where we put them, because we get them out of the general dome. Before we finish, I insist that we are willing to keep listening, we are willing to continue giving our face, but above all we are willing to do what the mandate of the Greeks and the Greeks has done. And that's preserving our natural goods, and in the case of the Atlantic islands, one of them, is a jewel. That's why, from this camera I mean: respect, please!, all the neighbors and neighbors of Ons, all the neighbors and neighbors of Bueu, but all the neighbors and neighbors of the National Park Atlantic Islands. Respect for the protection of our main protected space. And I would like to hear the serious and valued proposals of the parliamentary groups, of them, because I think there were no proposals in the PRUX. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u151	Thank you very much, Counselor. We start with the turn of parliamentary groups. Mr. Villares Naveira has the floor for the Mixed Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u152	Good afternoon, gentlemen. Counsellor, allow me to begin by greeting Ons' neighbouring us here today to follow this debate, to which we hear first of all before we come to make this appearance, and to their voice and their voice we owe ourselves in this intervention, in these words. Allow me, in addition, to wear this fair T-shirt when the Rules of Procedure come into force, which numbs, perhaps even more, this Welsh camera. [[Mr. Villares Naveira wears a T-shirt with the slogan "We in the Fight."]] Ladies and gentlemen, much despotism and little illustration of this appearance, as in the performance of the Council in general. The first question you have to ask yourself is to ask who the counselor spoke to before coming here to this audience, who first claimed that it was on his own request, and then had to nuance that the rest of the opposition groups, except the PSOE, will also ask for it. Indeed, therefore, she was also urged; she was urged mainly, which was what triggered her appearance at the request of opposition groups. And the question is, Who did you speak to?, did you speak to Mary, who is the president of the association of neighbors and neighbors that groups most of the neighborhood of the Ons?, did you speak to her before coming here today in this audience? Did you talk to Carme das Reboiras, who has his grandparents buried in the countryside of the island? Did you talk to the slippers? Who did you talk to before you came here? You can object, of course, that it is quite free to come here to realize a legal situation that is already Vigilant regulation, which, therefore, can do so, but the truth is that you come now — and I underline that right now — because it is evidence of a social conflict that goes beyond the Ons a great deal. And then the question is, since this conflict was highlighted, who did you talk to?, with all the people who stood up against a system that they considered unfair to hear to see, according to them, what was the injustice of the system? Did you talk to them after that conflict was demonstrated? No, no, no, no. As you have not spoken is why we say there is an act that says to speak and act in the name of people, but without people; in the name of the people, in the name of the neighborhood of the Ons, but not to the vicinity of the Ons. A lot of despotism, little illustration. In democracy we must not make decisions without hearing, and much less say that decisions are made, that we are exposed to something that affects our neighbourhood without speaking to our neighbours, once neighborhood exposes that there is a conflict. That's why the first thing I ask you here is to preach candles, to suspend the appearance. There's the representative of the neighborhood, talk to them, listen to them, and then I'll resume my appearance, and we're also willing to leave you as much time as it takes for you to do it. You mean you heard the neighborhood? There she is, look for an appointment with them at this moment or another moment, and in the next full, if it isn't now, we resume this appearance, without any problem on the part of En Marea. The important thing is that when you make decisions and when you explain whether you listen to the affected groups. We believe they have at least the right to that. I think they asked him to make an appointment, and we don't know why they don't receive them either. We think that's the least that must happen in a government of a democratic society: to listen to those affected. Even if then you have your reasons for not giving them the reason. Maybe, but at least listen to them. Although he avoided using the name, he did refer to a legal figure, which is that of the concession, which refers us to all that legislation, I say no longer late franchisor, but franchisor, the idea of the settlers, right? to treat the neighbors and the neighbors of Ons as if they were the ones who were there and not from there. And, therefore, it's an incorrect idea at the time of treatment that is given to them in relation to their own life and the relationship they have historically maintained with their own island. Colons are those of the Tea Land, which have been stripped of their lands, for example, in the valley of Negueira, in the bowl of Navia, to be transferred in the fifties to the Tea Land. But this is a completely different figure. And that's why we've always felt unfair about the treatment that has been given to them and that it's continued to be given to them and that it's been dragging itself precisely from ancient times into citizenship. Citizenship, a modern concept of neighbourhood, at the legal level, at the level of constitutional respect to all people who have a link with the Ons, and I tell people that they have a link beyond their own neighborhood or understanding the broad concept of neighborhood to which you were referring. What are you supposed to be crazy about today, in that broad concept you're handling? Well, to be a victim of abuse historically and with reduced rights in the present too. They saw unfairly — and I would like to remind you that, since the debate is taking place, since it is a good thing to remember it — reduced their rights as citizens and citizens, particularly in the 1960s and 1970s, suffocating them, making them unable to live, denying them basic services to live on the island. That's what some of us in this chamber are also trying to do, safeguarding the rural environment on the continent, not closing kindergartens, not closing schools, not closing medical services, so that people can continue living in rural areas. And that's been suffered by the islands and the islands about forty years ago. It's not that they want to go, we force them to leave the island already before this situation. They and their contours, and their contours, and I repeat that of their contours -- for then I will refer to that concrete situation -- have unjustly forbidden to do things that we, the ones we live and the ones we live on the continent, yes we can do. We have, of course, attached to the Constitution that right to residence, to freedom of movement, but we have many other rights restricted, and they have many rights restricted. And the question we're asking is whether that difference in treatment is fair, whether it's justified and what's the reason for the reduction. You were talking, simplifying, that one could bring six friends even if they had no connection with the island at home. And I think if you wanted to celebrate the anniversary at your house, which would seem to you if you limited access to your five or six friends, who would be the closest ones to having a celebration and spend a day with them, those things, so normal that we can do on the continent, there are a series of restrictions that it is good to listen to the neighborhood to see what they have to say to that. [[Murmurs.]] And the eye: this doesn't mean to be against the fact that there's a coupon. No one questions that there is a necessary regulation of the uses of the island for being part of the National Park, but rather in the internal distribution of these coupons, if in the internal distribution of how scarce this property, which is the presence on the island, can be divided by awarding or compensation in some way in relation to other injustices to which the neighbors submit themselves and the neighborhood for that reason. What values do these people have? What values does the Ons neighborhood bring to the history of the islands and the National Park of the Atlantic Islands? We think I'm the main treasure that has the history of the Atlantic islands, I'm one of the components. The human component is one of the main components, which has been evaluated or evaluated. And one of the things that's picked up on UNESCO's candidacy is that it's natural heritage and human heritage. It's the material values, it's the way of life. They are the depositaries and depositaries of that living memory, who keep the names of the places, who know how it was, how it is, and how it wants to remain the island. And also, therefore, those immaterial values that you only appreciate when you enjoy people's company. They are carriers and carriers, therefore, of values that UNESCO values for the protection figures you referred to. We live in a landscape, and that of the Atlantic islands is only modulated by man for thousands of years, in a way that respects the environment and should not disappear. As I have little time, I will not refer extensively to two examples that I think can be paradigmatic, and that I could take note of them by the Greek Government in relation to the uses of protected spaces, such as Ireland or Switzerland. In Ireland, many islands, for example, in the Galway region, where there exists, because of the role of the island's own inhabitants, in custody of the territory, a special attachment to them and all their surroundings so that they don't feel or somehow see the fact of insularity in a modern society, through a series of counter-predictions so that they can continue to occupy the territory in a sustainable way, as they do or as they traditionally did the inhabitants of the Ons Islands. Secondly, also the case of Switzerland, which, as you know, forms a landscape that we all have at the head of the mid-mountain and the high mountain, that for modulation and for its own existence there is a social pact throughout the Swiss country so that this population will remain fixed in the territory and therefore does not feel suffocated and expelled with each regulatory consequence. So we want to claim the islands and the islands as part of that treasure, which is not a problem, but they are the solution, and should be the first value of the candidacy. So we think that's the first value to promote. The islands are more valuable if you don't neglect your people, the islands are more valuable if you don't make life impossible for them. But let me make reference to a question that I also care about and we are concerned about In Marea even more than this, which has a more profound background: this has not only to do with the theme of the Ons, it has to do with the protection of all the natural heritage and all the cultural heritage of our country, and it is the promotion or not of the culture of compatibility between environmental values and rational occupation of the territory, which is traditional, modernized but sustainable. For the last time, you introduce with this debate the prejudice that human cohabitation with natural values is not possible, that it is not possible to listen to neighbouring and incardinating within natural values and heritage values. It happens just as it has happened in relation to the Ancares or in relation to the high mountain: they exacerbate the ban and do not count on the neighborhood to develop the territory. This leads to that after the population, of course, with this state of mind, I reject any form of environmental protection. And that's often what you want, to be an alibi more to unprotect natural and heritage values, to soon offend the earth, as they do in Touro, or set fire to the eucalyptus. And even passing over the protected areas like the Natura Network, or as they are doing in the Oribio right now, with an wind park that destroys nature and splits into two mountains and mammoths, like the Mother of the Faithful, who opened in the canal. This is the profound misfortune of the attitude of the Union: to raise prejudices against natural and heritage protection figures to facilitate the policy of resources. Finished with two basic ideas: no one is questioning the coupon, no one is questioning the existence of a regulation, you are questioning your internal division, and you are questioning that you do not take into account — once the conflict is evidenced — the neighborhood for the solution of that division.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u153	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u154	I'm done. We want quality of life, we want quality for our natural heritage, for our cultural heritage, and we want, above all, quality of life for our neighborhood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Villares. You have the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego Mr Bará Torres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u156	Good afternoon. First of all, I want to give you good afternoon and welcome the representation that is present here in the vicinity of Ons and also in its Municipal Corporation, and congratulate you on your exemplary struggle in defense of your island, of your life. I have here put this shirt that was banned and banned in that gallery. [[Mr. Bará Torres wears a T-shirt with the slogan "ONS in a fight."]] And I think this is a hitchhiking, because you ban these shirts and allow the suits and gloves of those who are around stealing, and that you protect. That's the difference. [[Applause]] Look, Counselor: the truth is, you have unlimited, truly unlimited capacity to create problems where there were no problems, because in Ons there was no problem until you just created it. Actually, did you tell us that there has to be a PRUSX when the national park was created? You said so, not in 2002. How many years have you been without PRUX? Until 2018. What happened all those years? You've been blatantly violating the legislation of national parks. Anyway, that's a good example! By the way, at all that time there was no quota for visitors. There it is shown that in the summer months, especially in August, three thousand or more people entered. What was going on? You've been allowing that. Of course, there was no problem, in theory there was no problem, because Ons people freely went to their island, and you just created a problem. But there were other problems that had been repeatedly denounced by Ons' neighbours and their collective representatives. For example, light-related problems, water-related problems, sanitation. See what fundamental things for a normal life of people! And you haven't solved those problems, they're still unresolved, if they care so much about Ons Island. So you didn't solve those problems and you created one where there wasn't, and that's because of the mismanagement of the Atlantic Islands, because you did an effect called on the Cytes, massive Cytes, and now you're suffering in Ons the result of the pressure derived from that effect called the Cytes. Still, and in spite of all that, there's only trouble in a few days of August, not even in the whole month of August. You just gave the data here. He said that in the months of July and August 84,434 people had access to Ons, a total capacity, according to the coupon, only 110,000 visitors, which is the result of multiplying 1,800 by 31. And you just said that in only four days in July there was this problem of quota limitation, that it reached maximum, and a few days in August. So what's the problem? The problem is in August. The problem is that if you have to limit some kind of coupon, you will have to limit -- you have also come to recognize it here -- the coupon of visitors, of people who go there by tourists, but do not limit the access of people who have connections with Ons, their family. Eye: of his extended family, of the whole family. They can't put a limit there and the brothers go or the spouses go. I'd miss more, of course! You just said here that they allowed the brothers and the spouses to go. And sell us that like what? Did they want to prohibit them from being brothers and husbands? [[Murmurs.]] But they can't go to their nephews and nephews. [[Murmurs.]] Does this sound normal to you? Or if you have a celebration or a master's party, what can't go to your friends, if that weekend coincides on a weekend in August, where the cup is full because you've already asked people three months before to visit the island on that weekend? You're creating a problem where there wasn't, you're restricting your rights and access to neighbouring. [[Murmurs.]] And you know why this is happening to them, Counselor? Because they act proudly, act with prepotence and act with authoritarianism, because they don't listen to people, they don't listen to people! [[Murmurs.]] You guys made a pair at the beginning of listening to some sharp people, but they never dared give their face in an assembly with people. And you didn't even face it because you sent the CEO there. But we want you to go there, talk to people; you have here too, you can talk to her at the end of this show. Or if you don't undertake to go there and talk to your neighbours. If you want so much dialogue, if you've been offered here to dialogue, if you've said that you've made proposals, there's the neighborhood and its representatives, and also the representatives of the Town Hall, who have made proposals to you. Yes, they made him proposals! You said, to make it clear, "let's agree." He said, "OK with you," didn't he? Look: according to the Municipal Corporation of Bueu on May 6, this year, unanimous!, unanimous declaration of the Corporation, and you know what they told you? The People's Party, which is represented here with its spokesperson. You know what they told him? Look, they said to him, "Requesting to the Council of Galicia the recognition of Ons' neighbours and neighbors and their circle and familiar surroundings as fundamental elements of Ons, committed to ensuring the exercise of their rights, among which there is free access to the island, as it has always been." The free access to the island as it has always been!, without any sheep. [[Applause]] Because they're telling you, they're talking straight. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] The other day they said it there—because we went there to talk to them—I have an identity document that allows me to go throughout the Spanish state, through France, through Germany, through China, where necessary, a passport; and they want me to have, apart from my ID card, a card to access... No, no, they're telling them no... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u157	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u158	... that there are other formulas for managing access. But he said clearly, he has already agreed to the Corporation with a unanimous agreement, also of the People's Party, on that. And you, of course, want a crowded society, you want a haunted, manipulated parliament, where people come here just to see, hear and shut up. And that's not a democratic society, Counselor. In all the plenary sessions of all kinds of institutions, people can talk. We're not even asking him to talk here anymore, but he can put on a T-shirt, he can applaud. Isn't that a central element of a democracy? We have to put our shirt on them because they've forbidden them to enter that booth with a T-shirt. There's no right! [[Applause]] This is not a democracy, this is a real shame. [[Applause]] And the time of feudalism is over, Counselor. The feudalism that the Ons people suffered when they were treated as subjects, when they were treated as settlers in the 19th century and in much of the 20th century. We are no longer at that stage, we are in a democratic society where people speak and demand their rights, and not shut up. And in the Ons people there you found another gala village... yes, of the Roman invaders. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They didn't shut up! [[Laughter]] They've been set face to face! And they're telling them the truth as fists. And since you don't hear, I'll talk to you about the neighborhood of Ons. Yes. [[Murmurs.]] And, of course, you asked for respect and laughed at the neighborhood of Ons... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u159	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u160	Mr. President, I would ask you to ask for some education from a representative of the People's Party who is there.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u161	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u162	Look, tell them Josefa — who belongs to the Curro — who grew up on the island with her sister Carmen: "Before we got to Ons before we got to Junta, our houses were there. Now that we have to have a VIP card to go to our homes, it's disrespectful." Look, the one who speaks disrespect is Mrs. Josefa: "We don't want a VIP card to go to Ons!"So of course! So of course he speaks to Ons people. Marcelino, seventy-five years old, at house 81: "When we go to the island we don't go on tour." Because you came here too... with falsehood, which is to equate visitors with the neighborhood of Ons. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because the people who live in the Doñana Park, which is from the Doñana Park and who has their home there, have no money to enter; those who have to ask permission to enter are the visitors, the tourists, but not the people who are already living in Doñana. And that's the same thing we asked Ons. And tell them Marcelino, who is a wise man and who represents this heritage wealth of Ons: "Let's work and take care of the island." - to see if they know: they're going to work and take care of the island - "They should give us a medal to stand and keep the island." [[Applause]] And instead of giving them prizes, what they do is penalize them and make their access difficult. "Even more than a year ago" -- another great truth -- "there was no problem, the problem created them, Together and Parks, when they began to bring ships full of people from Vigo, Cangas or Portonovo." "It's your fault and we pay for it." So of course he speaks to Ons people, to whom you don't let speak and who don't listen and that we speak for her here. [[Murmurs.]] Look: Ons's natural heritage is of incalculable value. The cultural, material, and immaterial heritage — among those traditions that have been creating and building Ons people — has an incalculable value as well. But the greatest heritage on Ons is the Ons people, the Ons people, who have made the culture of that island over the years. They have to take care of her.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u163	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u164	...they have to listen to her, they have to attend to her, and they have to make a monument to her, Counselor. [[Applause]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u165	Thank you very much, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u166	And so you have to take one thing into account: there's no one in the world...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u167	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u168	...that you want Ons more and that you want the best...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u169	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u170	...for Ons as the Ons people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u171	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. Then you have another round.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u172	Listen to her, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u173	Thank you very much. I wanted to make it clear to you, Mr Bará, that I have, like you, been in this chamber for a number of years. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You know, he was wearing flags and bringing other things. And I also tell you, in case you don't know, that at the top bench, in the rostrum, no T-shirts were allowed, not in the previous legislates, nor when the Bipartite ruled. [[Murmurs.]] And now what you do is you put black on white what you've already done. [[Murmurs.]] You can come here and interpret what you want, but logically you need clarification, because of course, you can't move things that aren't. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So we passed... You have the word... [[Murmurs.]] Silence! I've made it clear... silence! [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Vega Pérez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Vega, be quiet. It's already clear. The clarification is already in place. Quiet. Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. You have the floor on behalf of the Joint Left Group, Mr. Cal Ogang.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u174	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u175	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u176	Good afternoon, everyone. And, of course, a very special greeting to the neighbors and the neighbors of Ons. To that gala village that continues to defend its rights there. You are an example for all the people we fight for the rights of all of us. And, of course, encourage you to continue with your struggle and from here we will try to accompany you, but your struggle is the main and fundamental, and all our thanks. To apologize for not bringing Ons's shirt, I don't have it with me yet, but I promise to wear it. And in the next debate on Ons, I'll take Ons's shirt, as it can't be any other way. And to clarify, first of all — as some of the previous speakers have told you — that you come here because the opposition groups ask you to come here. And we register our initiative first, and you record it later, and it should be accumulated yours, but you come here as you appear. You didn't come in, you came in because we asked the opposition groups to appear on this issue. [[Murmurs.]] We thank them — I think they have quite confused the parliamentary decoration — that they are concerned now and that they now agree to protect the national park. [[Murmurs.]] Welcome to the natural protection of Galicia!, they have been for many years, the ten years of Feijóo, without having a PRUX, without having a plan to manage the park and without providing the necessary resources for the conservation of the park itself. So welcome to the Government of the People's Party for environmental conservation. But maybe you're not used to legislating in the sense of conservation, which when they do they put you to the bottom and cause trouble where there were none. We understand that a responsible government is a government that tries to solve those problems that have citizenship, and that's not what it means to generate those problems, which is what you're doing with this issue. We are faced with a measure that has put together the Board this year and has caused a problem that we do not understand what it answers. And you haven't given the data, because you have retreated in your intervention — welcome also and I hope that if you come to an agreement with your neighbours and you can come to an agreement — that you could reduce the burden of visitors, two thousand three hundred a day, to extend the burden of your neighbours and neighbors. Until when? Give us numbers. What studies do you manage? What figures do you know of the fluency of neighbors and neighbors, which indicate that you have to reduce it to those numbers that are reducing you and the regulation you're doing? What data do they count? What load of neighbors and neighbors were you putting up with Ons to make this measure necessary? Because you're starting home on the roof. The logical thing is to study what is the incidence of that neighborhood, and what is the incidence of that neighborhood to calculate how many visitors can come, and not on the other hand, as you did, without taking into account the neighborhood. The National Park of the Atlantic Islands is undoubtedly a jewel that we have to preserve for its enormous natural value, but we also have to have the broad look and know how important it is that the neighborhood of Ons is within the values that we have to preserve and that we have to preserve, and that makes this island special and has a distinguishing element that makes it much more special. As you should know, the people make us people, Counselor, and they are the most important part of this matter, and it's with them who we need to talk to to in order to find a solution instead of continuing to cause them problems and difficulties. Besides asking you what are the calculations you've made about the incidence of Ons neighbors and neighbors to take this kind of measure, because they do it around some studies, I want to ask you another question: what do you have, if you have anything, against the islands and the islands? And I justify this question... when you go out to the lecture talk, I was quiet in my seat while you spoke. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] A week ago, they attend a meeting called at the Bueu Council, as you will know, by the government group, who apologizes that I did not salute him, I also greet the government group, convened by the neighbors and neighbors of Ons, where the representatives of each of the groups of the Galician Parliament were, with the aim of looking for some kind of commitment that could solve this situation. [[Murmurs.]] There was a neighbor who was there — who I imagine will be there too — who asked Mr. Moreira directly, the representative of the People's Party, who had the People's Party against the islands and the islands for this abandonment, this disappointment all these years, who do not meet their demands and who now come to hinder their entry into their homes. Mr. Moreira, of course, told him that he had no problem with the islands and the islands. And I also understood that it was nothing they had against them, that it was the common practice of the People's Party: to make life difficult for people. I'm saying another case......other case where the People's Party makes life difficult for citizenship, another case where the People's Party is a problem. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing new, it didn't look like a special deal to the island of Ons. [[Protests.]] But, of course, then we find that you come in the middle of this controversy with the announcement of the incorporation of the National Park of the Atlantic Islands in the request that it be the heritage of humanity, without having spoken to the Town Hall, without having spoken to the neighbors and neighbors a matter of such importance, knowing the controversy that exists with neighbourliness, the mistrust that you have generated in the neighborhood. And without talking to anyone at all, they're still going ahead with this. So you may have something against them and against them. If you can answer that, we'll also thank you. We understand that we have to ensure that neighbors and neighbors can enjoy and live in their homes and have a life as easy as possible, they already have a number of inconveniences to live on an island with the lack of services they have while being included in a national park, with the limitations that this entails, and that we should try to avoid making their life even more difficult, and that we have to make an important effort to keep that population as a very important intangible value, which makes this island as wonderful a place as what it is. And that people who have the luck and the fortune to know the island, and to spend there moments on the island as is my case, we know well of that importance, we know well of that intangible value that this island has, and that is one of the most important attractions that we should keep. We believe, and believe the neighborhood, that there is no objective reason to limit its entry into the island to neighbour in this way, that if, of course, you will have to set quotas, but at best — as you say — there will be a reduction in the number of visitors. And for that, serious studies are needed. This summer -- he didn't give the figures -- how many neighbors and neighbors are regularly watching Ons in the months of more people's burden, how many neighbors and neighbors are attending? And what's the incidence they're having in the park? You did not give that data, so you do not have that data. And if you have them, go out here now in your reply and give them, that we'll be delighted to hear them. You guys did a general calculation without taking into account the usual life of the neighbors and neighbors on the island. They made it as if they didn't exist. They sort of did a general calculation of the load that they think they can bear -- give you the figures, give you the numbers of the neighbors and neighbors they're watching, and what's the incidence on the island of those neighbors and neighbors. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because there's a lot of other formulas to be able to put up coupons. You had a request this summer to make a moratorium on the meat from the polemic that had been generated, that they had made a calculation, that they had been careful to see what that real incidence of the neighbors and neighbors is, to see if this measure is really necessary. And you refused to do so, you didn't want to do that moratorium, you did a slow study to avoid controversy. And they decided to continue as if they were in the far west, generating confrontation and generating strife. When it didn't cost them anything to stop, make a moratorium and say, 'cause we're going to look at this case well, we're going to see the incidence and that's what we're going to work on. You are dedicated to confrontation and searching and generating problems where there are no problems. So we ask them to feel themselves with the neighbors and neighbors looking for solutions, which is one of the fundamental values of that island that we have to preserve and that we have to care for, that they abandon confrontation, that they feel looking for formulas, that they do serious and detailed studies on the incidence of neighborhood on Ons and how we can preserve and we can reconcile the experience of these people with natural values and the area; and that they also focus on meeting the values and problems that the national park has, which up to now is not generating them neighbourhood, they are generating a lot of aggression and unrest and the lack of investment and resources that the Galician Union is applying on the island of Ons. We came to Cortegada as it burned in 2015, and it was the neighbors and neighbors who had to go out to put that fire out, because the Galician Union was neither expected nor expected. We've seen it on the Cyes Islands, as for years they've been enduring a huge burden of visitors, which there are studies that themselves determine that there has indeed been a fall back on biodiversity on the Cyes Islands for the abandonment of the Unity of Galicia during all these years of its control. And we're seeing him on the island of Salvora, Counselor. If you want to keep the Atlantic islands from littering the sea, stop dumping waste into the pit of the island of Salvora. For my part, for the moment, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. Cal. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Pierres López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u178	Thank you, President. Good morning to all, too. And allow me also to begin by greeting, of course, the neighbors and the neighbors of Ons who are accompanying us today from the rostrum, as well as to mention to all the people who tell me that today is concentrating on these parliaments so that their voice is also taken into account today. People, in addition, who are especially close to me, with whom I empathize enormously for me raised in Seixo, in Marín, and therefore practically neighbouring the village of Bueu. And, therefore, also with a clear idea of what the story of Ons is, as well as what happened there in recent years and in recent times. And what happened over the years has always been a struggle, a constant struggle on the part of the neighbors and the neighbours of the island for the sake of their rights. And I want to underline this word, Counselor, "rights." And why do I do it? Because during these months everyone who isn't from Bueu, who isn't from Ons, who doesn't know this problem, when one refers to claims from his neighbouring, ends up talking about these people of privileges, prejudices the hidden interest of neighbouring; something which in my way of seeing is understood only because of a wrong campaign of promotion of the island, where it seemed that tourist promotion had to be reborn with the rights of the neighbours and neighbours, today concessionaires of those near eighty dwellings that are there. And the Socialist Party firmly believes that the protections can and should live with those people who previously reside in a place, and should not, under any concept, renounce either one or the other. And why should it be like that? Because there's no better ally for a territory than those who feel link and roots in the place. No one understands the value of an outline better than the one who feels it from his own. Does this mean that we do not understand the need to apply rules of action or conservation plans? Not at all. We — I insist — are fully in favour of the protections, but if we understand that we have to do so by listening to and by talking with the concessionaires of the dwellings. Because Ons people don't deserve to be treated like that annoying backpack from which the autonomic administration has to get rid of. And that's the majority feeling of the islanders over the past year, a feeling that, unfortunately, it's stuck with those year-old struggles, too, to defend their own. A feeling that every public intervention on the island has always been at the expense of its rights. And you know, Mrs Vázquez, that this is not a new situation. In other parks, although not nationally, such as those of the Eume and the Anchors, for two examples, similar situations were also given. Neighborhood expressed concern at the drafting phase of the plans for use and management, because they also understood and understood that their rights are not respected in such cases, some as owners and some of them as housing residents. And that generalized discontent led to paralysing and also slowing down the adoption of plans, until the Council itself came to terms with neighbouring agreement. Something that seems logical to our view, the search for agreements, but in the case of the Atlantic Islands Park, which is part of the island of Ons, has not been given. And I also understand that you have named earlier the case of the Cabrera Island Use Plan. And it is certainly done, because it allows us to remember all the abuses that in this case have been made with privileged use and with public resources by the advisers of the People's Party. You're right, Counselor, what's important is to curry these bad beaches. [[Applause]] And since this has already been done by the voices and voices to make a certain historical review of what was the long way of neighbors and neighbors until they are considered concessionaries of the dwellings, they will allow me to no longer enter that account and focus on the reason that brings us here today, our neighborhood of Ons, which is a reason that revolves around the conflict in the management of the accesses to the island and that is weakened in time. A conflict that, in addition, was far from calming down with the passing of days and months, and with that accelerated approval of the Rector Plan, which kept the neighbours apart from the decisions and the rules that affected them directly. I want to confess to you that from the first day I heard in the mouth of everyone connected to the island with whom I spoke two words, always the same words: on the one hand, dialogue, but on the other hand, they told me a lot about the feeling. And it seems to me that the first, the dialogue, was never able to bear fruit, because it was never taken into account the feeling. It's impossible to talk successfully with anyone when you don't understand who your interlocutor is. When it is not understood that after that feeling there is attachment to something that is much more than an island, something that is more than a housing or property, by the way, always humble, when it is much more than material. Because for Ons' neighborhood, the island is roots, it's history, it's family, it's friendship, it's finally the link and the belt of transmissions of its life and its origins. Ons people and their history are another value to preserve. And it would be very sad to preserve that ethnographic value if I preferred to museumize and not so much protect and value the presence of those people who are in themselves living history. I was told the other day by a mother how important the island is to the whole family, but especially to her three children. They haven't met Caesar, their father's grandfather, and their father orphan since he was nine years old couldn't pass on much information to them either. So for them, the island is exciting. And I say exciting because, in fact, for Marga — the middle daughter — when she was twelve years old during a stay on the island with her parents and her aunt received a comment from a neighbor who excited her. She said this neighbor, you're as beautiful as your grandfather. And that comment gave him emotion, counsellor, and need to know more, because it was of the few comments and information that he had received from his paternal grandfather and that they had called him. And that's what he's got there, he's got him on the island, like all the stories he's given to the three grandchildren his father's grandmother, Mary, and he's been living with them for a few years. That living story is the one that identifies the descendants of the residents in Ons. And that's why they demand their access rights, because their life is linked to the island. It's not people who claim, therefore, to connect to the island, but it's the island that's connected to them and to them. To understand this, to understand that feeling of attachment, that link is fundamental in order to be able to cope with that dialogue successfully. I mentioned earlier other cases of natural parks that face similar problems, but it is quite true that Ons is a particular case because of its special condition of access, which greatly hinders the management of protection. Therefore, the Socialist Group believes that not only the dialogue that starts from the Autonomous Administration has to be more fluid with the affected neighborhood, but also supporting the conduct of a detailed and serious study of the real impact — as has already been noted — and the incidence of access to the island of this neighborhood, its close friends or friends. It must be noted that the problem of massive access to the island occurred at the time it was strongly promoted as a tourist destination and not before. And that's what's called that effect, which has precisely caused the need for improved access control. But to penalize the neighborhood above the tourism we don't think it's the right thing to do. Of course, it would be a mistake to put here today a solution by our band or a recipe for the resolution of the conflict, because basically that solution has to go through listening to the neighborhood, all the neighborhood; not the Galician Nationalist Group, not even the Tides, not even the Socialist Party itself. We have to listen to the neighborhood and collect all the opinions and their casuistics. We do not deny that from the start of the approval of the Rector Plan if corrections are made by the Council, with the courage — we understand — to approach the neighbouring demands. But for the Socialist Group they were not only completely ineffective, but they clearly revealed the harmful strategy of imposing first to negotiate later. The urgency was nothing other than the rhythm of tourism in the summer season. And in the end, what happened was that tourists have reduced the possibilities for access by islanders and islanders. His presence today should open his way to hear more and try to reach accords with Ons' neighborhood, not so much as to focus his efforts on opinions, for example, of a socialist mayor. Because doing this is the only thing that shows us is that you feel more comfortable in provocation than in solution. You should be more concerned today about the provocation that you yourself originated in the neighbors and neighbors of Ons and that led us to this debate today. [[Applause]] We trust that having arrived here will help the Council to pay due attention to neighbouring claims and empathize with that motto they repeat, and it is that "We are not an island, it is a feeling." We hope that the loss of neighboring rights will not definitely lead you to tell them to accompany you in your feelings. Counsellor, it contributes to keeping her story alive and to the attachment she feels rooted...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u179	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u180	...with a past that's yours. But it is also the heritage of all of us and of all of us who visit and enjoy this extraordinary natural park. Nothing else for now and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u181	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pierres. Mr Trenor López has the floor by the Galician People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u182	Ladies and gentlemen, constables, neighbours. Counselor, thank you for coming here today. And I'm not going to go into the ridicule of whether you were the one who first filed the request to appear or was Mr. Cal. What I do know is that the Socialist Party has not submitted its request, perhaps because they prefer to think or bet on confusion What I do know is that the Socialist Party has not submitted its request, perhaps because they prefer to think or bet on confusion and that it can benefit them. Look, just to play the decoration again: Mrs. Villariño, president of the Socialist Party in this chamber, was obliged to put on the jackets. Members could not come here to talk if they didn't put on their jackets, and you know that because Mr. Bieito Lobeira was a victim of Mrs. Villariño. Of course, that's what it was to numb. Carai is numbing Mrs. Villariño! [[Murmurs.]] And just to clarify: that I know, the concierge gathered with the association of San Xaquín, which was the one that existed at the time. The one by Maria Xoese, who was an exconcileist of the Nationalist Block Galego, was made on August 21st. But even I have to do with what Mary Joseph says, because in her request for a meeting with the Council, what she asked is that, please, the politicians of the Boeu Municipal Corporation should stay out of the way. [[Murmurs.]] Maybe because she knows very well what is the ability that you have to intoxicate and turn everything around at all. And let us not be confused, ladies and gentlemen: today we are talking here about how to guarantee the conservation and protection of our natural spaces, and in particular of the national park, Mr. Villares. That's what we're talking about here. He didn't speak at any time, he didn't give him a second to talk about conservation policies and the protection figures of our natural heritage. He doesn't care about anything at all. You're much happier with your shirt; you've got the picture by tomorrow or today, to get on Twitter, and you've done the theater you wanted to do. And it was the only concern you have about this. [[Applause]] I was also surprised, Mrs Vilán, that you do not defend the national park and that you are another Member, perhaps with other interests of a more local or personal nature, but that they have nothing to do with conservation policies. The Galician Isles Maritime-Terrestrial National Park is the only national park with which our community counts. It was declared in July 2002 following a unanimous agreement, a unanimous agreement — please listen to me — in this Parliament. Debates me, too, I want to remember, because our party was accused of lack of ambition, because you wanted the park to be wider. And here's another example of his incoherence: before they wanted the park to extend to almost every island of Galicia, to the Corrubedo dunes, to the cantilevers, to the beaches and laughs, etc., everywhere they could see the islands. You wanted me to be protected by the national park; just the opposite of what you want now, which is to narrow it down, which is to divide the national park. But, ladies and gentlemen, what really was consensus on highlighting the environmental value, the landscape and biodiversity value of the park, and which, in addition to its symbiology, it goes further and helped to set up our identity as Greeks. The advisor said he would like us all to show in this chamber a clear and explicit stance on the need to protect with all the tools we have at our disposal the only national park with which Galicia counts. But I think today you lost a unique opportunity to close ranks and defend our national park and the validity of the protection figures that guarantee its preservation. We're talking about protection figures, but also about their management tools, tools that determine all the aspects necessary to ensure maximum conservation. And when we talk about the protection figures and the tools that come from them, it's where the discourse of the opposition begins to make water. On the one hand, in this Chamber we debate almost every plenary session to extend the protection over our heritage, over our territory, to make there ever more surface in our community under some of the protection figures we have. You asked to expand the Natura Network, expand the natural parks, declare protected spaces where there are not, to simplify the requirements to be able to declare them. Even in the recent Natural Heritage Act, if I ever listen to you, our whole community would be under a form of protection. Not to mention the repertoire plans of use and management, which you were urging us to approve them, with the greatest of the emergencies, without extending the deadlines for dialogue with those affected by them, without listening to those affected and taking out the Council's machete. We said no, we said we wanted to listen, we wanted to wear out those deadlines, and you criticized them for that. Dialogue that our group has always defended and dialogue that the Galician Board has carried out for, after many months of work, the first Master Plan for Use and Management of the National Park, a document bearing fruit from dialogue and consensus and coordinated work of all the agents involved, and — as the advisor recalled — eighty-five allegations were received and sixty-two accepted. It is a plan that, in addition, has received a good visa from the Ministry of Economic Transition of the Socialist Government, which has already entered into force and will serve to protect this space. Ladies and gentlemen, coupons are essential to ensure the conservation of the park. Coupons that have been requested by all groups of this camera, and with greater intensity in recent years, not only in the Cies but also in the Ons, as a result of greater control over the first ones. And I have here, for example, the initiatives of the Nationalist Block and the Tide, which go completely against what you just said today. I say of the Tide, but I also say, Mr. Villares, that you were the spokesperson of the Tide before they dropped it and you were in the Mixed Group, and you signed this, and you had completely subscribed to what you said now. That's hypocrisy; it can't be called any other way. You say something here when you don't have your neighbors, and then when you're going to speak to your neighbors you say the opposite, and forget your words, and forget what you signed and accepted as a spokesman, Your Honor. [[Applause]] The coupons, in case you haven't made it clear, Mr Villares, in case you haven't read what other Members of your organization were registering, are designed to avoid tourist massification, and to endanger the environmental values of the national park. That — as I say — was requested by all groups. And he blamed even the Government for having done so in dialogue; not as you asked for it to be unheard of by the affected. And now that they're defined and are being fulfilled, it seems that someone is not in agreement and is confusing and searching for conflicts with an instrument that is the best that can guarantee the conservation of these spaces. This shows the hypocrisy, ladies and gentlemen, of your groups: they are asking us to extend the protection of spaces, to extend conservation measures, to make regulations more restrictive, to be more demanding, to limit increasingly the use of our national parks, and at the same time, when exactly the measures you have requested are applied, they come here and feed you the conflict and poison, and they lie. They lie because even in the initiatives they registered they lied. You should review them again and at least ask for forgiveness for everything they said it doesn't fit into reality. But that's not new in the opposition. You have a speech here and then, according to the municipality where you are and according to the collective you're talking to, you change your speech completely. That's why you have to change your voices, so the environmental voices didn't speak today, because it would be embarrassing to tell you what you said. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is what we're saying is also about renewable energies. Here all the full ones come to you with the speech, you put your mouth in them with the speech of renewable energy. Now, there's no hydropower station, no mini power station, no wind power park, no biomass facility with opposition support. All the installation of the renewable energy you put in Galicia, everything, has a platform led and moved by you. It also happened — we talked about the subject of waste treatment plants in the morning. Ladies and gentlemen, this inconsistency also goes to the protection of spaces that have high environmental values: a lot of initiative, a lot of mouth conservationism, a lot of sustainable development, but when that goes into practice, you're always against it. Ladies and gentlemen, on the access quotas: these are working properly; they are not a whim of Galician Union, they are made, Mr. Cal, based on technical criteria and technical reports; they are the most effective tool for protecting the park. And besides, as the counsel explained to them, they do not endanger the rights granted to the owners of the dwellings. From the very first moment, the Galician Union defended the special situation of these neighbours, which could be affected precisely by the protection figures, by the protection figures that you were defending to apply, and acted accordingly.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u183	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u184	That's why, gentlemen, neighbours, you have all the freedom to enter and leave the island all year round, aside from the general coupon, even the days when the limit of authorizations is covered.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u186	And for that, of course, it articulates itself, to ensure that you can access without being affected by the money.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u187	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u188	That's why these mechanisms are established.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u189	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u190	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u191	Thank you very much. Mrs Vázquez Mejuto speaks for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u192	Thank you, President. I think I've tried to be very careful, and I've done it, but sometimes one is that you have to answer at the moment because you don't believe everything you hear here. And you don't believe everything that you hear here because, first, I was a Middle Rural Counsellor, and I listened to everything that they said to me that I wanted to rock everything and I didn't want to preserve the environment at all. And it was behind, behind, behind. Now I'm an environmental adviser, and I'm continually hearing that here the only ones who want to preserve are you, each of the groups, but that on the side of the Council, which I'm presiding over, there's absolutely nothing done either. And then we invited the neighbors — which I think is good and very commendable — and we changed the speech. It's just that this is amazing! But, above all, it's amazing when there are a number of people, who are the technicians -- who would work with you just as they are working with us -- who are officials, who are the reporters, and they wouldn't change the report by ruling with each other. But, in the end, we want to discredit them because someone comes here and says: But let's see: there were public exhibitions and there was a trial. It's just that we're all charging in the month to look after our neighbors. And, above all, if we're very close to those neighbors, we had to do a job that -- they believe me -- none of you did, because there wasn't a single claim to the Rector Plan of Use and Management. And look how long the procedure was! And it was as long as we had headlines and headlines, the press and the press, where we were completely held, where from the Vigo Pleno en bloc, a plan of rector to protect the Cyes islands is urgent. For example, Mr. Villares, do you know Jose L. Jacome, who I think will still be from En Marea — how are they changing each other? For this gentleman said or September 7, 2017: "The absence of PRUG is the origin of all the problems, the Union must do the duties." I mean, here we say one thing and we also say the opposite. Mr. Villares — I begin with you — I would like to know, since you are in politics, that you have so far done for the PRUSE National Park in the Atlantic Islands. Where was it when PRUSE was exposed? Now you -- I think it's all right, and you should do it, but when you do it with at least one serious job, say something: what should we do to achieve a better consensus? You're going to remove a bit of political revenue and, by the way, if you can scratch your shirts — which I think is good too — because we're also laughing at your shirts. Because we've seen that Marcos Cal said he didn't bring it because he didn't have it. Well, if the question goes on t-shirts, then this country goes very bad, Bueu goes fatal and Ons disappears. It's very clear. Regardless of all this, you told me about justice, and it's true that I can't argue with you because I'm not a judge, because I haven't done anything right. But if it's true that you should read Auto 94/2019 from the High Court of Justice, and if you don't say you're against it. And he says he doesn't question the coupon, because we can't question the coupon, because the coupon is technically made and because he's also endorsed by the Ministry of Ecological Transition. It's impossible for us to question the coupon. Can we question changing from one side to another? Well, let them pass data, Mr. Bará. But his mayor is the mayor who's been passing a census for months, and never got that census to the Environmental Council. And I say that the neighbors and neighbors of Bueu and Ons would vote for some representative. Mr Bará, another question...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u193	Excuse me, Counselor. I ask the people in the gallery to refrain from making any comment. It's not allowed. Thank you very much. Continue, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u194	Next, Mr Bará, you say: we don't do anything on the islands, and I suppose you mean the four islands. And my question is -- you're from the BNG, they also ruled -- what did you do? I can tell you what I'm doing right now. And what is being done right now is the investment of a million euros: in Cies, 300,000 euros; in Ons, 250,000 euros; in Salvora, 230,000 euros; and in Cortega, 200,000 euros. At all of this, I also have to say a very special recognition to a people, boys and girls, of friends and of the BATA association, who do an admirable and fantastic job on these islands. What do we still do for the Atlantic National Park? For there is a commitment to a work done, which is the project commissioned by the Council of Galicia in 2017, and in addition to the date of 2020, which is the Tutatis project, self-sufficiency on the Ciés and Ons islands, which is two million euros — that is to be pointed out. And what was done on the islands, too, Mr. Bará? Because the integral rehabilitation area of the National Maritime-Terrestrial Park of the Atlantic Islands was declared in January 2019. It's a supramunicipal ARI managed by the Galician Union, and it integrates all the islands of the national park. The planned investment, Mr Bará, is EUR 1.125,000. But what do many more things need to be done? Of course, by Ons and the rest of Galicia; and by Ons, and by Cyes, and by Salvora, and by Cortegada. And then you said one thing that I almost lost, and maybe I misunderstood, and if I misunderstood, I apologize. It's just that I was saying Ons' problem is because we suddenly took the people of the Ons' Dogs on ships. And what do you mean by this?, what was the Council?, what is the Councilmanship, what is the Councilmanship and what moved it from one side to another, or what interest does the Councilmanship have in what is done? Well, I guess we're just kidding if he meant that. I'm the one who lost myself there. And on the other hand, in receiving the neighbors, because there was indeed a constituted association — which was the Association of Neighbors of San Xoaquín — and he resigned his president. I'm meeting with your president. It's forming another association, and I'll meet with that association. And if I'm not present, it doesn't mean that I'm not a general director, who -- believe me -- what she says at the end of the day, I will, and vice versa, or if I have to clean up too. That's the reality. Joint Left Group with Marcos Cal. While there's no PRUX, Mr. Marcos Cal, it's criticized, and then it's also notes and press notes saying, "Incompetence on the part of the Galician Union." When there's PRUX, you don't take part, because work didn't work at all. It's just that it's so easy to take, get here and say: we're with these, with those over there, but no work; because it's also criticized. If you ask me how many neighbors there are in Ons, man! for the truth is that I have a number of competences; but who has to transfer me the Ons neighbors, besides that they are believing it and that we give three hundred fifty meats, and therefore I have to say now that there are three hundred fifty neighbors, because they are the meats that we have given. And there's a data that also gave the press, which says there's a thousand neighbors. Well, if there's a thousand neighbors who believe that they're neighbors or relatives of those neighbors. We can't get out of people's load, but what we can do is say there's a thousand neighbors. But someone will have to move it. And that's the municipal competition, which is not me. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And someone was listening to what the problem was to have a sheep. Well, sometimes it is that we actually remove a problem from where there is none, but it turns out that you don't want a meat. But it's just that in some way we have to believe it, because if we don't believe it, then what we're not doing is, apart from not preserving the national park, we're not preserving the neighbors and the neighbors of Ons, because, then, we would actually put thousands and thousands of people, and eventually they would almost have to get out of their homes or their gardens, because they would be almost literally invaded. Because it is not the first time that the problem in Ons is also emerging in the media: "The island of Ons is overwhelmed by visitors", which was August 22, 2017. As it didn't look very well here and they didn't give it wide coverage we've already expanded, and indeed there were a lot of people entering Ons. [[Mrs. Counsellor Vázquez Mejuto shows the House a photocopy of a newspaper page.]] [[Mrs. Counselor Vázquez Mejuto shows the House another photocopy of a photo in folio size.]] And that's a stress to the neighbors, but also a responsibility to everyone else, because before PRUSE we didn't have a safety plan or an emergency plan, which now if they have neighbors and neighbors, and now they can be quiet. So the problem is believing through a DNI? Then tell me if you want to do it through whatever you want, a bracelet, whatever you want, but somehow we have to believe it. Just like the people who live in a city and who are in a green zone, and therefore have to do a procedure to say, I'm a neighbor from there, but it's a green zone, and I want to park, no less. And in relation to PSOE, Mrs. Pierres, I understand that your role today is not easy here. And it's not easy because you know first-hand what PSOE did in all this procedure: there's not a single claim to PRUSE, and there was public exposure and therefore you were acquaintances. And you probably know a lot more people because you're in the area and you're probably worried about it, but that concern had to be moved when you first said, "Do you do the PRUX; we've done the PRUX, there's all the corresponding reports, there's a period of very broad allegations, and it turns out that everything seemed right to you." But then this report is transferred to the Ministry of Ecological Transition and National Parks. And without your good visa, without your favorable report, we couldn't approve it here. And who rules right now in Madrid? And who is the minister of the Ecological Transition? It's also PSOE. But, above all, you say I'm very pleased with this noise from the PSOE. [[Murmurs.]] Look, I didn't tell Abel Caballero that if he was going to mess with the people of Bueu or with the people of Ons, he was alone. [[Applause]] So it's true that sometimes it's not easy to have to get out here and defend. But regardless of this, what we're talking about here is whether we have to keep clarifying further, but not getting in the way. I think, in the end, the result is that everyone says: there has to be money. And that, in the end, all political groups say, because there has to be a master plan for uses and management. What about some misunderstanding? I don't think it was this counselor's intention, nor his team, nor the People's Party, that there was that misunderstanding. But maybe there are people who feel very good at hurting their neighbors. Because I can imagine that my grandmother suddenly goes to her age, even my parents, saying that if they're going to withhold their rights, it's normal to worry. And I have to tell the neighbors and the neighbors that their rights are not retained. Yes, Mr Bará. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And sometimes malmeter gives rise to all of this, and then when we want... of course, they're not fools. [[Mr. Bará Torres words not perceived.]] My grandmother isn't stupid, my father and my mother aren't stupid either. But you don't have to know what PRUX is, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u195	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u196	I don't treat the neighbors as fools, believe me, I'm next to the neighbors. I was mayor and therefore when you are mayor you have to hand them over every day to the neighbors. [[Applause]] But what if you're not going to argue with me is that when, in the end, someone tries to scare something always stays. So here we are to speak loud and clear and to undo that intuition that never had to be twisted. So we have a national park, and the question is, do we want it or not? I think so. And if we want a national park, we have to have a master plan for uses and management. And if we have a management and use plan that's approved, there's a few coupons. And if there are a few coupons, gentlemen, are there more neighbours? No problem, we'll take it from the general coupon. Indeed, there is no more problem, but to agree, and those who have to agree are the neighbors of Bueu and the neighbors of Ons. So now there's a new association, that association will represent, I imagine, all the neighbors, and if it doesn't represent all the neighbors, there are some political groups that, among all of them, represent all the neighbors and therefore move it. But this is the only way, there's no more way than this. I have heard from some parliamentary group that even if you qualified this plan of soft, that is, we had to be more restrictive. And we are the ones who say that we must protect, but that at the same time we must protect we must let live. And, therefore, we must let the people of Ons live. And there's also a need to dynamize the economy; it's fundamental to dynamising the economy. Just as it's essential that they have decent homes and help them as they have other areas. So this is a roadmap, and a roadmap that is charged for ten years; for ten years with regulation of the public park, with coupons of visitors where it is essential to have them for good management and conservation of public space. And it's also grounded, and it's grounded with strictly technical criteria and load capacity. Some coupons which, of course, are not invented by the Environmental Adviser, and which apply to the rest of the national parks, regardless of whether they are done in one way or another. And he heard Mrs. Pierres that if in a national park it was the PP that restricted it. Look: it's national parks, and really who controls them is the Ministry. It's just that here we're losing a link, that's why they're national parks. It's just that all of a sudden here, if you can do one thing and another can do the opposite. And we all wanted to put order, and when I say all the political representatives and also the neighbors, who — as I taught them earlier — assured them in the summer of 2017 that the island was saturated, and demanded control that allowed better conservation. So the way to do it is only through a management plan of uses and management, which places the coupon in one thousand three hundred people for general access, three hundred people for camping, two hundred people for guided groups in high season and the neighboring part. Strictly, what neighbors? Packed. What did you understand about Galician Neighborhood? Fourth generation up and down, brothers and wives. Should there be more neighbors? We've got more neighbors but within that general access cup. So we volunteered to listen, as it can't be any other way, and some way of control we should have. The easiest thing to do? Well, a sheep. Don't we have a DNI? That's it. Actually, of course we have the DNI, but does that DNI say that those 300 people who have a meat live in Ons? I'm afraid not. So we have to put on a DNI, which you call it because, I don't know, whatever you want. Of course, some people want to call it "pass VIP." Not me. I say, "I believe they're Ons," and therefore I don't keep tail and therefore I go and come when I want to. Okay, just by showing the DNI always and when it's said that that person lives in Ons, a parish of Bueu. [[Murmurs.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as far as I'm allowed by law, I'm going to put all kinds of facilities. What you can't give up, of course, is the coupon, and what you can't give up is a system of access. So we will continue to listen, we will continue to negotiate within what are the possibilities, because sometimes in negotiations it seems that I do what I want. No, this is established by law, no less or less; I don't do what I want to do either in this case or in the rest of the cases. I'd be good! And on the other hand, what I ask for is serious, is serious in municipal politics, which I think there will be, serious in mayors. And it's true that there's a mayor who went out to defend him by the virtue, who was the mayor of Ribeira, whom I have to thank for continuing to bet on the PRUX, but, above all -- the PRUX is already approved -- that he continues to bet on a candidacy, which is fundamental for the present of the islands and for the future of the islands, to which we cannot give up. And on the other hand, saying that the mayors must be pineapple, and what cannot be said is that the mayor of Vigo continues to ask for himself what he intends not to do for Bueu and his neighbours. I understand the attitude of the PSOE on this issue and — I said earlier — it is not easy, but it is not easy because Parliament must take the step forward and must say "If I want the national park" and "If I want candidacy", as I am sure that ultimately the representatives of the PSOE of the various municipalities will also want it, because that is the future of the island and then we would regret not having it. So we must all be clear and say: do we want national park? I say we do, for everyone's sake. Do we want to preserve it and protect it? Well, yes, but for that, we have to enable a few formulas. And the conclusion is, let's keep working, but that work that, in the end, is reflected in that we have areas of integral rehabilitation, where we're going to have energy and good energy, and also clean energy in 2020. So that kind of investments and projects that are already under way and of which they will enjoy the Cyes and Ons islands and, as it cannot be otherwise, also Salvora and Cortegada. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u197	Thank you very much, Counselor. We opened up the possibility of a special round of government double clarifications. First of all, you have the floor by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Villares Naveira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u198	She told the counselor vehemently that she didn't treat the neighbors with fools, she just didn't deal with them. So there's no problem there; you do what you want to do and walk. Where do these T-shirts come from? How much bother they? There's the neighbors and neighbors, they'll talk to them, they'll be delighted to receive it. [[Ms. Counsellor Vázquez Mejuto speaks words that are not perceived.]] Ask yourself what proposal we would make here. The first one we've already said in the first minute of intervention: listen to the whole neighborhood. Once the conflict manifests, once the PRUX enters into force and there are problems, listen to who is telling who has a problem. They don't do it for vice, they're wasting their time, they're losing money. They come here for something, for something that moves them, and what moves them is the defense, among other things, of an emotional bond and a real bond that they have with the island. It's not invented, nor is it to bother you, it's simply because they think they have the right to continue enjoying a bond they had so far with the island and we believe that we have no right to prevent it. Look: trying to confuse, he came back again with the story of whether we question or not question the coupon. I think it became clear in the first intervention that we did not question the coupon, but rather its internal distribution. If there's got to be a coupon, just split up. I mean, we're questioning the treatment received by the neighborhood in regulating access and use and enjoyment of the island by citizenship, in particular that it has a special link with the island of Ons. So what we're looking for is that neighborhood rights are respected according to a standard of quality of life, which is what the population set has on the continent as well. Second question, legal aspects. You speak of Auto 94/2019 of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. Yes, you read the car, indeed — and so do we, because you showed us the neighborhood when we were there with them, and you'll see that you recognize the right to residence. But, man!, the right to residence in solitude, because it establishes a limitation to that access and that residence and to that coexistence with sporadic people; that is, in the relation of neighbouring to third parties, that we do not have limits to the people of the continent. So if you're going to read the car, read it completely. As for the PRUX, you know perfectly well that you can — and so you just recognised it at the end of the intervention — reverse the load capacity and you can do it after listening to the neighborhood, and that there is no problem at all in listening to them again, if you already think that the listener once, because you see how it is implemented and the limitations that the system and the difficulties and unjustified restriction of rights, because it is done, without this total variation in the volume of authorisations. He also spoke of the wide consideration of neighbors. He has also explained others of the interveners, Mr Bará, who exclude certain relatives from the spouses, so that they do not enter, with which a special limitation is made for the effects of mobility to the island in relation to people who have ties with it. Because, indeed, the husband's nephew has a connection, although he is not resident in the so-called misdirection, well-called at this time by legal status concession, despite all his historical genesis. On the other hand, it doesn't count anything that denounces neighbouring, as if you want to progressively laminate the concept of neighboring at every step and with every death, because the rules of succession and the rules of the hereditary communities of the concession are not the same as those laid down in the Civil Code or our Civil Law Law of Galicia are much stricter. So that with the disappearance of each generation, the right of every strain to enjoy the island will also disappear. With which it's a loss of legal bond, even though the emotional bond doesn't disappear. It's a technical matter, but it's a very relevant issue, because that question also depends on the broader or less broad tree conception of the consideration of neighbors to which you referred. We therefore demand that the general rules of the hereditary communities, of the Civil Code and of Galician civil law, and not those which establish the limitation of the concession, which is being used to gradually reduce the consideration of neighbourliness. We think there's an unfair distribution of those enclosed numbers or those load limitation numbers, which you want to do differently. The technical and human pressure reports you refer to do not contradict the neighbor's requests, do not contradict them, simply set different priorities, within the total load volume. An internal distribution of that maximum capacity is required to make life more pleasant and in accordance with a standard equivalent to what the rest of the population has...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u199	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u200	...I'm going to end up, yes— to make possible such everyday events as being able to hold a family meeting or meeting with friends, with friends, or where you can invite an event, such as the celebration of a birthday, or any other type that exceeds the six people. So we ask Ons' neighborhood to make life more pleasant, to stop making it impossible and in that sense that they make history, that they break with the past, and that they contain the most valuable treasure on the island that their people are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. Villares. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego Mr Bará Torres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u202	Counselor, I know you can at the same time listen to Mr. Peace and more to me, but you can pay attention, to avoid entanglements, attempts of confusion. Indeed, it is mandatory that there is a PRUX, it is mandatory and necessary that there is a coupon. That's not discussed by anyone. And we demanded there was a PRUX, because you said it took eleven months, right? It took fifteen years to do so. And there was already a proposal in 2011. You might have been -- I don't know -- working as an adviser to some councillor, or as an advisor to the middle of the countryside, but there was already a proposal in 2011. See: in PRUSX there is indeed the maximum load limit, but there is no access system and restrictions for residents. That came later in a communication that you made -- I have here a copy -- to the people affected by that situation. [[Mr Bará Torres shows the House a document.]] By the way, it wasn't a technical issue, because if it were a technical issue, you would have adhered to technical reports. But you've changed those criteria over the months, haven't you? They changed the criteria, Counselor, they expanded the number of people who would benefit from access rights and their family circles. Yes, Counselor, don't say no. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They changed, and I have here the last communication that broadens the family circle and also those six people. That wasn't at first. So there are no technical criteria, there are political decisions, which are the result of a negotiation. And the people and the Boeu Town Hall — unanimously all the groups of the Corporation — are telling you that this system is not worth it. And the Bueu Town Hall did make allegations, that you didn't answer, and sent them this deal, asked him for interviews. [[Mr Bará Torres shows the House a document.]] The neighboring group also asked him for interviews, you also recognized him here. If they have to wait until they're legalized, they're a collective that represents a set of populations, affected by a situation -- I say -- very painful and very worrying, and I should receive them as soon as possible. And I've also told him that the accounts are clear. Indeed, the pressure, the called effect, the massification of the Cyes had a rebound effect on Ons. If you say the problem is that there are a thousand people who can be beneficiaries, the reality is that there are seventy houses; there are seventy houses — eighty-six but, according to me, seventy are habitable. If we multiply by the capacity that each house can have, which has no capacity for twenty or thirty people, it has capacity for eight or ten people — they are modest houses — from there comes out a figure that can be the maximum capacity of those houses: seven hundred. But not all of these people go at the same time, in the same days, it can be an average of three hundred, four hundred. So what's the problem? The problem is easy to fix. The problem is to adjust those amounts and if there's a problem with the maximum coupon, remove it -- part of it, you said so too, and you came to recognize it here. So sit down and talk, get the neighborhood and look for that deal to find a solution. Because, in addition, the problem only occurs on certain days of July and, above all, on certain weekends of August, there is no problem for the rest of the months. So we think there's a solution if there's any will. Look, you came here to talk about investments. But, of course, to say that they invest 250,000 euros in a genuine natural treasure like Ons seems to me very modest and very low. Because I've already told you that there is a need to improve the light, to improve the water surplus system, sanitation, roads, public spaces, health care -- much more means are needed. And the natural parks have to be built counting on the people who live in them, not making it hard to go, to be, to live, to work, as you do. Yes, Counselor, that's the reality. In addition, the BNG has made proposals throughout this process, we have proposed a Bureau for Ons. The Bureau by Ons was precisely the perfect framework for sitting around a table at Junta, National Parks, the neighborhood and the Ons Town Hall, to look in a consensual and dialogueal manner and participating solutions, and, above all, to do something that is very important in the natural parks and national parks: to make people part of the project, of the idea, of the concept of the natural park; not to view it as a problem, but to see it as an opportunity, as a wealth, what it is, a natural wealth, but, above all, a cultural wealth of traditions and a human wealth, of people who have feelings there, who have feelings, who have their pain, their love, who has their people buried there in the cemetery, and who love them more than anyone else in that territory. And we have to respect, take care and pee all those people. By the way, I'll give you a present from this book aboard the Ons. I hope you can read it, that you have time to read it, because you're sure to change your view on the meaning that this island has for the islands. [[Mr Bará Torres shows the House the book.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u203	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u204	So I hope you read it with affection and dedication, and let you understand what that feeling of belonging, identity and love on the island of Ons means that you feel all these people, and that they transmit so well, above all, the older people, that you say that we like you're going to cheat and manipulate them there. No, no, no, people are very lucid and very wise, they are people we have much to learn from. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u205	Thank you very much. Mr Cal Ogong has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on the Left.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u206	Thank you, President. Well, I'll take advantage of my reply so that I can clarify some issues that have emerged in the debate and make our proposal definitive as well. I was telling the lady counselor that you feel like we're telling her she wants to destroy everything. Don't take him to the staff, we're making political criticism of the Government of Galicia and how it deals with environmental issues, and you're an environmental advisor, because of course you have to listen to these criticisms. And when all environmental indicators, when all of them are absolutely all environmental indicators: water pollution, land pollution and air pollution, loss of biodiversity, loss of individual species in conservation or recovery situations; when we see CO2 emissions; when we see the evolution of erosion, the evolution of drought; when we see all environmental indicators that are all negative, of course, we alarm and urge them to take themselves seriously to combat the environmental crisis. And today it hasn't happened, and what we've seen is negative, and so we're going to continue to criticize, which is our work, trying to change that. On the Atlantic islands, what we've seen all these years was disgust, abandonment and all these situations that I've already named in my first intervention. And, of course, with a million euros for all the islands we are not going to solve all these problems. So that's what we criticize him for: the lack of environmental sensitivity that his government has. We complained when there's no PRUX, because you have to talk about it, because it's necessary, because the law indicates it, and for all these years they haven't done it. But we're also critical when they do the PRUX and we understand you're wrong. And that's what we're criticizing. You told me you don't know how many neighbors and neighbors there are, that's the mayor's and so on. So, on the basis that you did the calculation? That's why I was saying at first they started the house on the roof. And if you don't have a neighborhood control that's already in existence, they did a calculation of guided visitors more people who are in the field, and they did a more or less indicative calculation. That's why I told him that in the face of the request for a moratorium this summer made to him, the logic is that in the face of the lack of this data and the incidence that the neighborhood might have on the island, the most responsible we understand that it would be to make that moratorium, take that control, and see if there's any need to establish this measure that you've put in place. On the island of Ons, the problem is not the neighborhood, or we understand it's not the problem. And if you understand that neighborhood is causing some trouble, explain what it is and why you have to make these restrictions. The problem we have in Ons and the problem we have on the Atlantic islands is the dislocation and lack of investment and resources to preserve that national park, the dislocation that has been there all these years in which PRUX and partyism have not started, which we are now also seeing partisan interests in the struggles and in the fight between Galician Union and the Vigo Council. We understand that what has to prioritize is the conservation of the environment, of course, of the national park and the possible coexistence — and we believe that it is necessary, because it is part of that value — of the neighbourhood of Ons, as it has been doing up to now, if it did not cause any problems. If the neighborhood wasn't generating any problems, we don't understand why they have to limit their access. And as the vocabularies that preceded me have already said, because it is possible that there is an overload on the island, for the better part of which is to be reduced is in the other quotas, and not in the corner of the neighborhood, that, as I say, we understand that they are not generating any problems as they have to be in this situation. So, let us ask you -- and already to finish this song -- to feel neighbourly, to sit down with the Town Hall, to look for a solution, because I think it's quite obvious that the solution is very easy to achieve; a solution that can benefit everyone, that can leave the neighborhood satisfied and that there can at once be a few cups that environmentally preserve the island of Ons. And, Counselor, if you think you've done things well, I ask you why neighbourhood is on the verge of war. As the BNG spokesman said: Ons' neighborhood is not stupid, you know very well what interests you and what doesn't interest you, and if you're standing at war, it's because you've been doing the wrong thing. So what we ask of you — and this is the message that we believe is important to this whole debate — is that you feel neighbourly, that you feel with the Town Hall and look for a solution, because it's very close to reaching it. And so we avoid this confrontation and let this lea continue, because we are in front of a gala village that will continue to defend its rights. And the sooner they rectify, the sooner we finish this. Nothing else on our side.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u207	Thank you very much, Mr. Cal Ogong. I give the floor to Mrs Pierres López from the Galician Parliamentary Group of Socialists.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u208	Thank you, President. The truth is, Mr. Trenor, that I — I tell you frankly — was also surprised that you intervened on this subject and not Mr. Moreira, who came to the meeting in Bueu because of the problem of access. And you're so worried about national parks, the truth is, I haven't seen him there. [[Applause]] But since you're curious, I'm going to tell you the truth about why I am and not Mrs. Vilan who defended this initiative. And we were certain that the great measure they had proposed today to resolve the issue of access to the island of Ons was a gateway to the island, as they had already intended on their day in the case of the island of Cortega. And, of course, you'll understand who's better than an architect so you can value the originality of your proposals. [[Applause]] But now you're serious, Mr. Trenor, and you're also focused on the subject, which seems to have also been mistaken for your appearance, day and intervention. Listening to the advisor, it seemed that access to the island is always guaranteed for the concessionaires and for those authorizations to their name they could process. And I'm going to be amazed when the testimonies of many and of many of these concessionaires contradict that statement, because reality isn't always that. Let me give you an example: it's Manuel's case. He is an islander's son and during the year he works on board, his father is buried on the island and his mother is now one of the concessionaires. Every year, when Manuel is on the ground, he tries to approach to leave a branch in the cemetery; so once a year he tries to approach the cemetery. This year it was not possible for him because he arrived at the port on Thursday August and had to sail again on Tuesday. And despite his condition as a concessionaire, he found that the real difficulty -- and I've already said it before -- was to manage in this few weeks to get a seat on the regular service ship. Because there is no reserve of squares in ships authorized for islanders. That's the reality: access to the island, as it has manifested itself here, is not guaranteed at all for the islanders. Because access not only knows of meats or passes, nor of cheaper prices, but also of squares in boats that make it easier to get there. I invite you, for example, to review on the Atlantic Islands website the authorizations granted in August. All, except August 9, were exhausted; the 300 free authorizations were distributed. And this implies that high-seat ships wear out their squares in great advance, and they prevent not only getting close to houses, but also any maintenance intervention during the months of maximum influx, where, despite special authorizations, they don't have any coupons on ships either. And the diagnosis is clear: islanders and islanders have to literally open gap between tourists in order to access the island. And they have to do it with a tourist mentality, programming forty-five days in advance when they go so as not to find out what it's impossible to do in regular transport. You, Counselor, have commented before that if the problem is to give more squares for the islanders and less for tourists you can talk. It seemed like that conclusion, the truth, that I couldn't take it sooner. It doesn't seem serious that you say here that the neighbors should first agree on the claims, as if the original problem was the neighborhood. The problem is in the use of PRUX as a pressure measure for the neighborhood. Therefore, we ask him not to cause wounds to be wounded up and then put on the tirates. And it applies as a good habit to prevent anyone from bleeding from the actions of the board. We do not want my guilt, we want efficiency and institutional responsibility. And I remind you that the Socialist Party is one of the parliamentary groups of this chamber, and it does not argue, what you do here are initiatives — as you have already done — asking for the necessary drafting of the PRUX and making — as you have also done — suggestions to this one. That's our job, Counselor, and so we did. And since the Socialist Party, we have also made it clear that all the difficulties and incidents here are real and not fictitious. And that this thyrtle, Counselor, bleeds and bleeds more than you could foresee. I think it's inevitable that this summer will remain in the minds of the islanders and the islanders as another of the episodes of struggle to which they seem condemned and cyclically condemned by the Ons neighbours, and it's simply because of being connected to the island. It's everyone's responsibility, but especially yours, Mrs. Vázquez, to restore the image that has been designed also for the islanders and the islanders. Enjoy today that you have them here and listen to their stories, to those of you and those of you who have not only been born, but have also studied and worked on the island. Make use of dialogue and empathize with your feelings, don't underestimate everything that binds you to the island. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u209	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pierres. Mr Trenor López has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u210	Ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that at least it has been clarified that the problem is not the problem of identification, but that the problem is with ships. But I do want to think about it, Mr. Cal, Mr. Villares, Mrs. Pierres and Mr. Bará: if you go to the islands and say you're neighbors, what's going on? I mean, if you say you're a neighbour of the islands and you go with your wife, or you go with your children, and you carry four people because you live there, what's going on? What does the Administration do? What does he do that he's controlling there? What does it do?, let it happen?, do you trust your good faith? Of course! I mean, I don't know how you did at Pontevedra Town Hall, I don't know if there was any of them coming and saying, "I'm a concel and a vote." I don't know! I don't know how you did it, Mr. Bará; I don't know how you handled these issues in your county, I'd like you to say it. I don't know how metropolitan transport works, I don't know how the beneficiaries of metropolitan transport benefit exactly from transport. Through an I.D.! And I'm glad Mrs. Pierres tells us that the problem wasn't identification, because it seems that the problem we had was simply identifying the people who had guaranteed the right, which is the most normal and logical. And I'm glad it's not the problem anymore. I'm also glad that the problem is no longer the money, because it's already clear what the advisor said. There's no breakdown problem. If you tell me that there are seven hundred neighbors in these seventy-nine houses, because there are seven hundred neighbors who can freely access them, and if you have to cut those who access them as tourists, the tourist coupon is cut off. The advisor said so, he asked the mayor to send him the list of those who have the right to access. If it's okay! We're telling them if it's a thousand, a thousand. What's five hundred? Five hundred. There's no problem, it's cut from the maximum load, as the advisor said, and it's done. But you don't want that either; you want that, because without it, you're safe. No problem. We've already shown that there's no problem with the identification or the coupon, because the administration makes the fair distribution, the distribution that is needed so that all the neighbors can easily access it. Home!, I trust the promise made by the counselor, I won't think... - I don't know. Of course, that's what Mr Bará said: there are seventy-nine dwellings, and there may be -- I don't know -- five hundred, eight hundred -- what's going on? That gives me here the feeling that there's some information that's failing us. If I see predisposition on the part of the administration, predisposition on the part of the advisor, are you telling me that four hundred, five hundred, seven hundred squares aren't coming? What gives me the feeling is that there's something we're not told, because, if not, it doesn't match, the conflict isn't consistent. Ladies and gentlemen, the advisor was absolutely right: today what we had to clarify is whether we want the national park or not. Our group does want the national park. And when we made the decision to support a national park in our community, we did it with all the consequences. We knew there would be certain limitations, but we also knew that this was positive for the entire community and also for the Ons neighborhoods, and for the municipalities that are affected by the national park. I don't know if when you voted in favour of the national park they didn't vote unconsciously. I don't know if you guys when there's a protective figure aren't aware of their limitations. What I'm really thinking is that you come here because you have to fill the hours, because you have to fill the plenary and why you have to fill the committees. Because if you don't, I don't understand that you're not aware that the protective figures that are used to preserve natural spaces also have obligations. Because here I didn't listen to any member of the opposition is defending those conservation mechanisms. And look: the People's Party is in favour of the national park and it is also in favour of conservation measures, of course! And we're also in favour of our neighbours. And that's why if they have any problems, so tell them, and we'll do our best to get them identified and get them to log in freely. The advisor already said it: don't count inside the coupon, don't count! And if there were more than you're loving the neighbours who have the right to access, the tourist coupon will be reduced. I don't know where the problem is, I don't see it. What gives me the feeling is that some people are already sitting on the problem and giving them absolutely equal national park, conservation measures, and giving them absolutely equal even some problems that might have some particular neighbor. You're an incoherent opposition -- as I told you before -- I'm a hypocritical opposition, because they defend things completely different and according to whoever's the audience they have. They are able to say one thing in this parliament and go to the municipalities, go to the municipalities, go to the collectives, go to the associations, and say the opposite.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u211	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u212	And above you are an opposition that lacks the slightest sense of the country. We have a national park, and you're hurting it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u213	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u214	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. Trenor. Mr. Vázquez Mejuto has the floor for doubling.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u216	Thank you very much, President. First of all, for I'm sorry to the neighbors, because maybe they had to spend an afternoon where they see certain confrontations and rattles. In the end, what we're doing is we're moving forward. Finally, what this is about is that the Galician Union has a duty, and that duty is to manage the National Park of the Atlantic Islands — this national park is Ons, it's Cies, it's Salvora and it's Cortegada — that we're doing our work, that there may be mistakes within that work and sometimes misunderstood. But knowing that a national park has an obligation, it's an obligation by law, that it's to have a plan of management and use. In this management and use plan, even though we're focused here alone and exclusively on the coupon are very important things, technically endorsed, not only by a technician, but also by a lot of technicians, also by the technicians of the Ministry of Ecological Transition. That PRUX had a public exhibition in which, as I said before, there were eighty-five allegations, of which sixty-nine were admitted, some in whole and some in part. I mean, a national park needs to have a PRUX by law. It was something that was being sued, filled sheets of newspapers claiming. We have a PRUX. In the case of Ons, the coupon came into force in February. That coupon is one thousand three hundred people a day for the general coupon, three hundred for the camp, two hundred for organized groups and neighbors. What have we been asked to do? We have been asked in the allegations — and in particular in the allegations made by the Bueu Council — the broad concept of neighborhood. What's a neighbor? A neighbor is the one who is embroiled, and the Council of Galicia considered neighbor, on demand for islanders, on demand for that feeling, on demand from the neighbors, up to the fourth generation on top and down, as did the children of the concessionaires and their couples. What if you have changed, Mr. Bará, is that they stay away — and that if you stay behind — six more people per household, who can be familiar or who can be friends, so that you can enjoy their homes and also enjoy what the islands are in you. I want to tell you that this was totally serious, that these are technical criteria, and that parallel to all this there is a candidacy, a candidacy that also includes the entire park. And here Mr. Mayor of Vigo believes that it doesn't go against the Council of Galicia when he makes certain statements, it goes against the neighbors and the neighbors of Ons and Bueu. And why? Because, if they don't go forward, they'd miss the opportunity to have important approaches to, in the end, get some basic services that they need for when they're on the islands. Therefore, the duty of the Galician Union is to manage it. And what became clear by the different political groups is that national park, yes, as voted and fought for it in 2002. What could the Plan Rector have done earlier? I'm sure you do. Well, it's just that it's now that it's the Rector Plan and it's now that it has to do investments like those that are being carried out, among them that have good electrical connection and that are clean energies; investment of two million euros, like other investments, that we make them directly and that others do them with certain collectives, such as friends or the BATA case, regardless also of the technicians who have the Galician Board. Therefore, each of the islands has one place, each of the islands has its value and each of the islands has its singularity, but one cannot understand the national park with an island yes and another island no. And, of course, the neighbors and neighbors are above all. I'd just miss it! But it is true that, being neighbors and neighbors, I have seen a very conciliatory tone, which at other times seems to always have to be the animals or the trees above the neighbors. And I always say it's compatible to preserve the environment, the animals, the trees and the neighbors. Today I will gladly be surprised because we are all in the same line. I'm afraid I have to ask the Ons neighbours to come again, because when you have to get out of front of laws any one of you would say that you're going another way so that today you haven't been. Therefore, I respect the neighbors absolutely. And I would ask that same respect from all those who represent the neighbors, those who are in the Government, those who are in the opposition, who I'm sure they should have it too. So we can't give up the PRUX; it's necessary. You're not going to give up the candidacy, there's no discrimination of any kind here. And, as my partner said, there are three hundred and fifty meats, there are seventy-nine houses. So if you think that these seventy-nine houses are linked to a thousand people, you'll understand that then they do go into the dome, because it wouldn't be serious, but we can't get the PRUX, and that we can't do it and we can't do it by law. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, before I finish, I want to make several things clear. The Galician Union made a PRUX, was public, participated in the one who wanted it. Mrs. Pierres, you say the obligations are different. No, as they demand, we have to follow up for later, if we don't do what we must, make the allegations in time and form. We're not going to give up the island access system, because we have to have a island access system. We will not give up the candidate for the UNESCO National Park, but for the sake of the national park, for the benefit of the neighbours and for the good of Galicia, and we will never cease to defend the national park and, of course, the neighbors and neighbors of Ons, the neighbors and neighbors of Bueu, the neighbors and neighbors of the Cyes Islands — which are also there at certain times — the neighbors and neighbors of Vigo, as well as in the case of Salvora and as in the case of Cortegada and their respective municipalities. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u217	Thank you very much, Counselor. We move on to the next point, non-law proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela and da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the actions to be carried out in Galician Union in relation to the creation and design of measures for the improvement of primary care in the health system
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u218	Two amendments were tabled, at the initiative of the Joint Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u219	To formulate the non-law proposition Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u220	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Waiting to keep the camera's decoration, I suppose wearing a jacket is acceptable for decoration. That's the way in. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I mean, we have to come in summer, a little more relaxed and not... a little calm, man, nothing happens. [[Murmurs.]] The People's Party's health model failed. It's a conclusion that unfortunately it's quite obvious. We wouldn't want to end up like this. We'd like to have a more moderate position, to make some discrepancies, but we could make some progress. But the Welsh PP health model failed. This is probably a statement that can be held as indirect or directly supported by virtually all groups that border or work directly in the health system. The current reality is a very serious problem of human resources, mainly for two reasons: one, because there is a deep deficit in human resources and another, because those that exist are probably the object of the greatest attack that can be seen within the public system to public workers in Galicia. The truth is, it's amazing that we intend to maintain a system in the way it's about keeping it that way. But we have a serious human resource problem. There are general cuts, but, in particular, human resources are a rather serious issue. For putting on some data. I know that those who share the Health Commission most often hear it and those who want to be in touch with the professionals, with the patients, we see it more often. But by putting a reference point on this same summer, some health center. I'll put one on and explain why. Grove's health center. You know that The Grove in summer must be a place that is empty, which has nothing, there is no one in the Grove, empty Spain, the Grove is empty Spain — it must be — in summer. We're talking about the area, the district that is the third population of Galicia in summer, between O Grove, Sanxenxo and this area. Six professionals, six academics have as their squares the Grove health center. In summer, where you already know that there must be no one in the Grove, there have been several days working one. It's not that sometimes they work five, four, three, two, no, one person. A person who covers the health care of six professionals and those people who get older. What happens when the system works like this? That people who need attention come from emergencies. And he gets to the emergency room and what he's with? With CAP in which, where there were three, there is one, CAP where professionals have to go out and there is no one left to cover -- we haven't learned yet, we haven't learned that fatal consequences can happen again in Galicia's CAPs -- the CAP where there are professionals this summer who have attended no more than thirty, no more than forty, no more than fifty, no more than sixty or eighty, more than one hundred people in one shift, professionals who attended more than one hundred people, professionals who had to go from CAP to another in the middle of their day to cover and so that they could have the official statistics say that there were several in one place and several elsewhere; yes, the first hour they were in a place and the second hour they were in another place, but they were the same, who exchanged on the road. This ridiculous staff has to be basically supported on two issues, this health system is supported by professionals and despite our managers. That, yes, there's a lot of effort on the part of the Council, the Government of Galician Union, essentially in two objectives: first, conceal, cheat a little, embarrass the ground, as when we hear that 88% of Galician nurses and nurses are in a stable position of the system—which Mr. Feijóo said, and it is false, and it is also false and knows it, which has another name—; or as when he said that there are a thousand more five hundred professionals in the Greek health system now that ten years ago. We just have to go to the budgets: not that there are a thousand more five hundred, but 1,249 less just in primary care. This is one of the goals: to be confused. Second of all, you're guilty outside, because it's good to appeal to confusion. You know, you have to blame each other, the other gets confused, the other doesn't, the other doesn't know. Balloons out. It's all right. You know what's going on? That we have an exceptional situation. What would it take for a government to assume its own responsibility for health management? That he had competences and that he had been ruling for a year, not because he's fine, we can assume, I don't have years either, of course; let's say there's a government -- let's put it -- by chance, that he's been running a health management from which he has competences -- let's put it on. Curious: Galician Union has been here for ten years, and why do we have this problem? Let's report some things. In ten years, in primary care, 1,249 professionals less, 189 million euros less, 150 MIR squares — family and community medicine professionals — without asking that they remain unsolicited, that we could have trained and we do not have. Not increased in recent years, seven years followed by asking for 11 physiotherapists squares, 11 in seven years. Never treated to incorporate primary care psychologists, social workers, never treated. And all of this, for ten years, what's the matter? Given that we are Spain's third worst community in relation to doctors and doctors per inhabitant, the third worst in nursing professionals per inhabitant, we are Spain's third worst autonomous community valued by users. And this isn't random. When you systematically work to demolish the system, the system is resent, because it's not a matter of time, we're not talking about a system that fails one day, an error that exists one day. Ten years of government. And in ten years of government we have come to this situation. And, therefore, there is no possibility — except in the mental tide that some may have — of throwing the blame out. I'm going to repeat: 1,250 professionals less, 189 million euros less in ten years, 150 squares that we could have and we don't, we don't have the requested pediatrics squares, 11 physiotherapists professionals in seven years, nothing, nothing to incorporate psychologists, social workers into the primary care system, nothing. And all that he gives? Given this system, it gives a system that — let us not forget — has judicial convictions for fraudulent recruitment, torture use of the recruitment system, saturation of professionals. All of this is not that we're debating it here: judicial judgments against it. And this is our system. We lose professionals, we train them, but they go because we hire them in a tortured, fraudulent way, because we're tired, because we make this system an exploitative system. And what do our professionals do? They're going. And that's why we have a system with the third worst ratio of medical and nursing professionals across Spain. And this is exactly what makes us have this problem, a system that supports itself — we insist, and we always defend it — thanks to the professionals and despite their leaders. So -- it's obvious -- the system, the People's Party model failed and we have a serious problem, a serious problem that we need to fix. You can't be watching, with a certain surprise and wonder, how the models that were criticized today are worth, how those experts who came to them yesterday were said to be useless; how those solutions that were criticized here and against which they were gladly despotted today are trying to set themselves up as a model. Because that means that tomorrow they could use another question, that tomorrow they could change the model again. How can we assume that someone has a criterion if what he stands for yesterday criticized him? I'm going to set an example that I know they'll tell me. I'm going to give you the example of the wonderful replenishment rate. Six times, six times, the People's Party voted in this Parliament, six times, against asking the Government of the State to withdraw the replacement rate, six times. Do you know what the People's Party's main argument is now why there are no professionals in the system? Let the wicked Pedro Sánchez not withdraw the reposition rate. And this is fantastic, it's wonderful and gives for a great stream, but it doesn't solve the system. His model failed, they stopped running ahead, they stopped putting a solution that yesterday wasn't worth it, and tomorrow they don't try to laugh, get out well in the photos and try to see if it's another problem and let's go of firefighters shut down. We need a new primary care model, a model that actually puts the patient on the axis of the system, which is a multidisciplinary model, that we will incorporate more professional, that we can make this system not even the gateway — empty words that we have left behind — but we are actually able to respond to problems and not saturate hospitals so much that we have more resolution capacity in primary care. We have 40% of the time of saturated professionals to give bureaucratic responses, we have professionals making patients passersby, with three minutes per patient, with three minutes per patient. And this is the problem, that citizens who are in a waiting room in a health center -- I'll take the ninth time to invite us to have this debate one day, so we could avoid some assertions -- these patients interns and the patients who care for them, three minutes. They know perfectly well that this system has failed, we need to change, they can't change the system those who don't believe in it,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u221	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u222	...those who said yesterday that today's solutions seem good to them and others look bad to them. Stop, listen to the professionals and reform their hands. And this is what we bring here: stop and reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. You have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u224	Good afternoon. I don't think it has failed the PP health model, what happens is that the PP health model precisely brings this in: a brutal cut in public investment to make even the quality of care unsustainable in some areas. And indeed, the system is supported by the over-earmarking of professionals. Especially primary care is at the heart of health conflicts, especially in recent years, precisely because of lack of investment and lack of concern about this issue. Primary health care must be the center of the health system. It's true that that from the front door there's something obsolete, it's the center of the health system, an efficient health system that makes, in addition, health prevention. It's the most accessible area and where the professionals know the patients best. They can precisely take full care from there and detect health problems in time, as well as — as I said — do this work of prevention and education in health, issues for which, of course, they need to change their precarious situation, because it's impossible to do health prevention when you have quotas of patients per day unsustainable. We need to change mainly the level of professional staffing, but there are also lacks on a material level. What about primary care? Which is an issue where there's less business generation opportunity than in specialized care. Improving primary care also reduces the chances of generating business with health. Between the open or recent conflicts of primary care, the resignation of the service heads of the Vigo area, the long-term strike of the CAPs, the precarious conditions of the CAPs — they have been long-treated in this Parliament — or the protests that occur in various parts of the country due to the lack of family medicine professionals or pediatricians. We can put the example of Grove, we can put Rianxo, we can put Sanxenxo, The Street, Living; at all points in the country there are always problems with the lack of coverage of primary professionals. It seems to us that the short and late response of the Board and the ludicrous steps of the Technical Council of Primary Care make it necessary to promote this listening process proposed by the PSOE in this PNL, listening precisely to the health professionals, who are aware of the problems. That's why we add in our amendments the need to have a rigorous study on the staffing of real staff in primary care. And it is that we are continually finding that there is a lack of transparency in this area, and even in this Technical Primary Care Council this data is requested and not provided; a rigorous study is required on vacant squares and retirement forecasts, something so obvious that it should not be required. As the proponent also pointed out, one of the essential issues is to avoid — not just stop — the cutting of professionals, but to reverse it. Even today, the Medical College in Pontevedra, for example, proposed real measures for the stable recruitment of professionals, and it seems so obvious that we need measures that stabilize those professionals that it is not only understood that these measures are not driven to precisely address this shortage of professionals in primary care. Together with this, we also propose an amendment in which we ask to raise the percentage that health investment refers to primary care. We're around 12.6%, we need 25% if we really want primary care to be the center of the system, obviously in the framework of a cessation of cuts in real health investment. You were talking about 189 million euros. If we see the investment cut in basic social services in general today, a study — or yesterday, I don't remember — was published in which it was indicated that the cut in basic services by the Galician Union is still 3.7% below before the cuts, before the crisis. If we looked at it in real terms, it would be even bigger. We therefore believe that this issue of budgets is essential. Another of the amendments that we propose — and in which I understand that we have already agreed with all the opposition groups — is the need for proper management structures in primary care, leaving behind this hospitalocentrist model, making the system spin over primary care, regulating maximum quotas, patient limits per day, and, of course, introducing some of those specialities that the proponent has already pointed out in the oral explanatory statement of this proposal not of law, such as the professionals of psychology, physiotherapy and social work, effectively providing all the primary attention of these issues. Especially today, on World Suicide Prevention Day, we see how important it is to have psychological care at the primary level, but also physiotherapy, of which, as already mentioned here, we have one of the worst ratios of professionals per patient across the state. Social work, too, like an eid...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u225	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u226	...—if—where to connect social needs with community-based society services, social needs and social vulnerabilities that are often at the source of many health problems. So regardless of whether or not the amendments are accepted, we will therefore vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u227	Thank you very much, Mrs. Verao. By the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, you have the floor to Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u228	Good afternoon. Indeed, the situation of primary care is still a matter of concern and occupation. Last Wednesday in Commission 5th, the BNG also took an initiative proposing actions and actions that the Government of Greece should carry out to improve the situation. I would begin my intervention in that commission by saying that if we had to put a picture of this summer's situation, the situation that has experienced primary attention this summer, for the picture would be this. [[Mr Prado Colors displays a document]] It would be that of the Grove health center, it would be this poster that was hung at the Grove health center for many days, where it clearly put: doctors consulting, 1; doctors without consultation, 5. It wasn't one day, there were many. This was in Grove's health center. From 1 June to 1 October, there will be no evening consultations and no appointments will be made. [[Mr Prado Colors displays a document]] Another image that I think is very significant, another image of a consulting, health center: today there is no doctor; if you get sick, little bridge. [[Mr Prado Colors displays a document]] They're taking it a little bit by themselves, because the professionals and the professionals are tired. What is the image of this summer? So new in the media like these: health centers accumulate waiting lists during the summer; this is interviews and said by professionals, and they say there will be a generation of primary doctors and there will be no rest. [[Mr Prado Colors displays a document]] I can keep going. Another poster in the health center: "I remind you that my work day ends at 15 hours." With 42 quotes and emergencies, it's easy for anyone to go home without being seen. [[Mr Prado Colors displays a document]] Of course, there's a time when professionals can't be assuming as if they were those responsible for that situation, that they have to outsource, that they have to move to the citizenship who's responsible for what's going on, because they're there on the front line of fire. Then we see questions like Sergas covering staff vacations with day-to-day extensions or interreplacements, which, as we all know, actually means they have to do their job and the one on the side. Well, I think this little school of what was summer in primary care, little school because this is what comes to the media, it's a small part of what comes to the media of initiation. But reality goes a long way beyond this hemero library. This is the published information, a little published information, but there's a lot more. Inquisitions do not fail to collect the increase in dissatisfaction on the part of the Greeks and the Greeks with the health situation, which is only saved as far as the highest assessment given to professionals, but not to the system. And, in addition, it collects survey after survey that goes to the worst rating that they make. And this is an indicator of the problems and the deterioration in which public health is in general, and primary care in particular, fruit of the decisions that the People's Party has made in government. It's not by chance, it's not the result of a plague of lobster or a biblical curse, it's the consequence of the measures that are taken, of the measures that have been taken for years. Budget cuts: EUR 188 million less in this 2019 budget compared to 2009. But what does that mean? That if we add up to the fewer in 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 until 2019, we speak of two billion euros less invested in primary care, two billion euros less in ten years invested in primary care. With which, of course, doing more with less is not possible. That is why we are going to support the Socialist Party's initiative to take action on the situation of primary care, but we are presenting an amendment where we come up from our point of view that these are the same initiatives that we presented in the committee last week, because we believe that we have to go to a model change where the patients are really the center of attention, we have to go to a model change where a human resources management plan is carried out and we know clearly how professionals are, as they are, in what way (in precarious, fixed or otherwise) because, indeed, the Council of Auditors has put black on white. The president of the board said here on several occasions that the eighty-one and I don't know how many percent of the public health professionals were stable; it's a lie; the Board of Auditors says it doesn't go from 66%.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u229	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u230	That's why we think this should be so, that we have to increase the training squares, that we have to approve a service portfolio for each of the professional categories, that each professional knows what to do, and that it doesn't go through everything by the doctor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u231	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u232	...that we must incorporate into primary care clinical psychologists, occupational therapists, logos; real measures that can be done, and that can be done by the Government of the Union without being responsible for the central government. And that's where the People's Party doesn't want to do anything at all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u233	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left, Mrs Solla Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u234	Thank you, President. I am grateful once again that in this case the Socialist Party had brought this initiative, and it has been customary both in Commission 5th and in this plenary. The truth is that in the last year, initiatives in relation to primary care have multiplied, I've already lost count of the times we've brought proposals to this House, and it's really a really worrying situation. In fact, I was referring to the BNG spokesman that in the last Health Committee we were also dealing with this matter, it's something reiterated, and they told us by the People's Party that they were working on these technical council documents. In fact, I think we could remember and realize that the proposals that bring about the opposition are not at this particular time or this particular year. If we look back — and that would help us to assess the situation that we now have of staff shortages — we can see how — not in previous legislations but since the very beginning of the same legislation — there have been multiple motions, interpellations, non-law proposals, bills, resolutions in the debate of the state of the nation — even some passed and not complied with — amendments to the budgets of the Galician Union rejected in plan and on a continuous basis by the People's Party. Then we will talk — we have a specific initiative in relation to the need to increase the health budget — but we must remember that when the People's Party itself ruled, the problem was the same, and that in past years and previous legislations the problem was the same. And today we're suffering from the accumulation of the 10-year cuts, which probably have the worst face in public health in primary care. The comrades brought here examples, which have already been commented on in the Health Commission, in relation to various continuing care points and health centres that during the summer months were practically in a state of alarm, of closure. Because there were health centers -- as explained here -- that they didn't have a third of their professionals. That situation, far from being simply a problem of management character, of an administrative character — which, of course, is — gives the extent to which this difficulty affects the general population in the exercise of their right to health; and I think that borders on what the summer months themselves are. And unfortunately what was done here was that in the face of two strikes — one of the points of continuous attention, held in time in a stoic way by the professionals of the continuing attention points and in very difficult conditions of work, and another strike by the primary care professionals — if it was offered the possibility of taking a series of measures through a series of conclusions of that technical council. The reality is that the months are over and in a short time it will be a year and we will continue without any kind of conclusion, and I am very afraid — and then we will talk — that without any practical application within the accounts that the Board should present before the end of this year. But if we look at the reality of coverage that professionals report, the problem is magnified in summer for permits and vacations, yes, but the problem continues or continues for the rest of the year, when there is not so much coverage difficulty, and of course that is due to a racan conception — if I allow the word colloquial — of how the absences should be covered within the Galician Health Service. And I'm going to give you two specific examples that don't belong to the most common, the first one because you're not a medical professional. I was moved by a fellow who at the Arzua health center, in the morning shift, the nurses' vacations at the health center are covered on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays; the rest of these holidays are not covered. And that obeys the precarious policy of this Galician Union, more concerned because they frame its numbers than by offering quality services. We have already spoken on other occasions that this is called law fraud and that the Health Council repeatedly hires in a situation of law fraud; that is, the person those days or goes to unemployment or is simply at home without charge. And let's put another example that the professionals moved this summer. Indeed, in the area of Salnés and in the area of the entire province of Pontevedra there were quite serious difficulties within the continuing care points and health centres. And they reported, in the case of the Caldas CAP, that there was a medical professional who had been down for a year and a half and, instead of offering for his coverage a contract long to one or one optional, they were made each month or even for less time hired. This is not a difficulty — and I finish already — that is due to the summer months, that is pure and simply the intention of not providing coverage because primary care is not of interest, because obviously it does not offer business opportunities. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u235	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. You have the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u236	Yes, thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Mrs Solla, we are not discussing this or this issue in the Health Committee, we are discussing this precisely in writing. And if it surprises — as I said in the Commission — that if the health and primary care situation in Galicia was so serious this summer, the opposition's groups had not asked for the call of the Permanent Deputy, which is demanded every year for things and this year even for something which was quite less likely important than this. Look, Mr. Torrado, don't cheat, check the data from health professionals by categories of public professionals; they're published on the Ministry's website. It's not true what you just said here. The Primary Care Plan 2019-2021 was approved by the Board of Trustees in May of this year and published in July of the same year — not a hundred days of courtesy for the implementation of the plan — and had an important number of visits to a large number of professionals, as well as to citizens and different associations that collaborated in the plan. Today they're working on short-term actions, they're starting more than 70% and there's a commitment to have them completed within this year. It is a plan with more measures, with a greater consensus, with a much shorter deadline of execution than the one approved in the Ministry, mostly rejected by different groups and professional associations and which caused even the resignation of their coordinators, including Dr. Martín Zurro. The fundamental problem of primary care to date, ladies and gentlemen, is the shortage of family doctors, pediatricians and nurses to meet the need to replace professionals of these categories, particularly in the summer months and other vacation periods. There's even the case that someone in charge of some Welsh administration in some area had to personally go to cover for a CAP guard because there were no doctors. I don't know if you really think you did it for saving, if you think you wanted to get your job back, or maybe, as Mr. Torrado said, it was to conceal; it was to work on a directive to a CAP, to make a night guard to conceal. Today, of course, it's not a problem of cuts, nor is the situation unique to Galicia, as it seems you want to see from the opposition and move it to the population. Hemerotheque this summer: "Low of substitutes. There are already fourteen autonomys with afternoon primary modules. 80 per cent of doctors and 50 per cent of nurses do not have substitutes in the summer, according to Labour Commissions and CMS," "Doctors demand a national plan against the lack of primary optionals," "Summer spends primary care in the Community of Valencia, where Barceló"—his counselor— "he strongly denies that there has been a collapse in Valencian health. The adviser has asked for responsibility for this kind of demonstration." You have enough to learn the Galician opposition. "Osakideza denies that the summer hours of primary care extend all year long"; Happy Arcadia of National Health, or Basque Country. "Asturias doctors warn the authorities: good intentions, yes, but we want facts. Massive medical retirements and MIR escape threaten Asturian health." That I know, neither the People's Party nor Mr. Feijóo rules in Valencia, in Asturias, nor in any of the other communities. It is true that this summer the situation has been very difficult in primary care and, in particular, in the area of Pontevedra and O Salnes, but not for reasons that raise the opposition, but for what we are talking about, because of the lack of professionals. The primary care measures are being taken in addition to the plan, this Technical Primary Care Council has been put into operation, consisting of a maximum of fifty-five people from all categories and recognized prestige. But, likewise, the Committee of Primary Care Experts, led by Drs. Bengoa and Varela, was created. I would like — as I told you in the Commission — to review Dr. Bengoa's statements, prestigious management specialist and not suspected of belonging to the People's Party; they are prudent, realistic and very beneficial for the debates of this Parliament. One sentence: "The solution we seek in Galicia will serve all over Spain." Even Dr. Bengoa also knows that the problem is neither German nor People's Party. Your Honor, Mr. Torrado, the Health Council is moving forward, along with the professional collectives, in solutions to the problems of primary care and chronicity. I repeat: you convince Mr. Sánchez to withdraw the replenishment rate, which did not come into agreement with Podemos de budgetos nor do you see the 370 measures of Sánchez. You call President Sánchez, Mr. Torrado, talk to him, that you're an influential man and you can get what you want. But, look, as an example of a socialist commitment to primary care, news this week: "The Valencian adviser announces that she will spend 100 million euros on the primary care of the Valencian Community throughout the legislature". One hundred million euros in four years for twice the population of Valencia with respect to Galicia. That can be two things: whether they invest little or that the situation that the People's Party left was not so...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u237	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u238	... lastly bad as they're saying in that community. Look, President, there is a lot of work being done on the part of many people in the search for improved primary care in Galicia and, therefore, we are not going to support their initiative. Let's let those who know about this...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u239	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u240	...to achieve solutions. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u241	Thank you very much, Mr. Núñez Centeno. For the initiative's own group, Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u242	Thank you, President. I want to thank you for the support shown by the groups that intervened. The amendments from our point of view are obviously concrete to our proposal, but they go along the same line, we have no problem accepting them, we could probably debate some detail of them, but they generally agree with the line we have seen defending, and therefore we have no problem accepting them and we will incorporate them as add to the resolution text. There's something that has been said to be interesting to debate. For the first time, they put, for the first time, they insisted, for the first time, someone put into discussion from the People's Party some of the data they were given, it's true that none in particular will be saying that some in particular was not true and we have to shut up. Because, when you say, no, you give data that is not true, where and where? Because I'm going to quote -- I have no problem -- the data from the ratios of doctors per patient. General Council of Medical Colleges of Spain. Nursing ratios per patient, Spanish Nursing Colleges. Professionals who are missing in primary care today ten years ago: official budgets of the Galician Union. Saving one thing, Mr. Núñez Centeno, saving that you made some budgets that are a lie. You can write anything on paper but we can go to the budgets and give you data: 1,249 professionals less in primary care than ten years ago, budget 2009-budget 2019. If it's a lie, there's one of two: either you've been wrong or the budget of the Board this year is a lie. And I think you're acting a little bit. But I don't think you've been wrong about that. Look at that. But it's good that we appeal to other places to have problems. Yes. Do you know what's going on? Other places have smaller problems. Why? Because they have more professional than here, more professional than here. Because we're the third community with the worst ratio, medicine and nursing, the third worst, and that gives us more problems. And besides, because probably -- let me think about it -- you now assume that there have been some problems that there are no professionals because they retire and there have been some problems especially in Salne. I'm going to give two reflections, in order to contribute to the debate. About the retirement of professionals. How did they find out that the professionals were going to retire? They've been ruling for ten years. How did they find out? One day in the morning they woke up, made much sun for two weeks, then it rained one day, retired. Or was it not possible for ten years now to predict the situation we have? It's as easy as predicting that in the next four or five years it'll be worse. Why? Because the last ten didn't do their homework. And that's easy to predict, because people get one year each year, usually. So it was easy to predict. Second question. Especially we had problems in the area of Pontevedra-O Salnes. Is it because it's the area that accumulates more population than usual in summer, because it accumulates people in the summer period? Is that why? Well, maybe it has something to do with it. And was it possible to predict it or is it the first time it happens, that there are more people in the area of Salnez and Pontevedra in summer? Or did people talk about it until now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u243	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u244	...massified elsewhere and now suddenly they appeared at Salnés? Maybe it's a matter of planning or something that seems to be in the Council...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u245	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u246	... if you make the decisions by taking the data. So, when you want to discuss the data, tell me where yours are — that, by the way, the Council doesn't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u247	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u248	...and so we can discuss. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u249	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. Let's move on to the next initiative. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of D. Antón Sánchez García and D. Marcos Cal Ogando, on the performances to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the works initiated in the Oribio greenhouse, supposedly for the construction of a wind farm in the municipalities of Samos and Triacastela
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u250	This motion for a non-legislative amendment, an amendment by the Joint Parliamentary Group and an amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u251	Mr Sánchez García has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u252	Good afternoon. This poster, which says "We Save the Iribio" is the poster or t-shirt that the neighbors and neighbors of the Oribio cannot show because I know it would intimidate Members and Members of the People's Party and undermine the decor of this House too. "We save the Iribio," gravely confronted, undermining the decor. [[Mr. Sánchez García shows a document.]] It's a real shame they're still defending issues like those you're defending. Well, what could be a source of renewable energy, a resource to generate wealth among rural people, an engine for the rural economy that is so hit, becomes, by the policies of the People's Party, in a business of a few privileged people who have had the favors of the Galician Union for many years. Thus, out of the 600 million euros billing the wind business in our country 90% is owned by foreign capital, and no model was tested for that huge wealth to stay and serve to fix population in rural areas. In this country, therefore, we suffer the spore of our rivers at the time, colonized by companies from outside as well. We're suffering from the lignite spole, which we'll see and see how it's ending. And now, live, we're suffering from the wind politics. Resources that are all and everyone or nobody, with laws that theoretically approve parliaments that seek the general interest, with governments that should watch for the general interest and for the common good and that end up in the hands of builders, voyeur funds, banks and electricity, despite those who weigh and in addition to the impacts of landscape, environmental, heritage and action by governments that make the laws tailored to these companies, as was done in this country in 2017, with nocturnal and alleviation, the Law on Predation, the Law on the Promotion of Business Initiatives, with the excuse of the relocation of businesses, when they actually imposed on the dictatorship of electric companies to provoke the wave of parks that we are suffering right now in our country. The gossip of that law and among them is Oribio's wind farm, an example of a corrupt way of understanding public labor. Only from a government that puts all its resources to the service of a friendly company is understood to mean the administrative processing of the wind farm of Oribio, which, if not remedied, will end with eight aerogeers implanted in an area in the middle of the Natura Network, when Law 8/2009, of wind use of Galicia, says that wind farms cannot be implanted on the Natura Network, when the Plan Director of the Natura Network, 37/2014, also says that no wind power can be implanted on the Natura Network, will be implanted if we don't remedy it. Because being a friend of the People's Party makes things much easier. And Fergo Galicia, this company, enjoys the favors of the gods, as it was said of Villar Mir in the river Xallas, but also enjoys the favors of the administrations of the People's Party historically. Administrative processing is scandalous, from the beginning, because it comes from far behind. In 2005, four days after Mr. Fraga's People's Party lost the absolute majority in the polls, on July 23 is issued by a government in function a resolution which submits public information for environmental study, authorization, concrete declaration of public utility, approval of the execution project and sectoral project of the facilities that includes the Oribio wind park. Public information is taken out in July, one month, the public exposure period ends on 11 August and — surprise — on 12 August, a day later, the environmental impact declaration is issued. That's the demonstration -- no, the government in function -- Mr. Fernández Prado, you of this company should know quite well, which touches you quite closely -- of the People's Party approved one day after the end of the public exhibition -- an unprecedented speed, only possible when you're very close to the People's Party. [[Murmurs.]] So there was a resolution by the 2007 Bipartite — obviously 2007 — and one of the first measures taken by the Government of Mr Feijóo when he returned is the final approval of the sectoral project of supra-municipal impact without publishing the normative content of that sectoral project of supra-municipal incidence. Well, among these that you make a law according to these companies, is Fergo Galicia. After a first request for modification of the project, on January 30, 2018 Fergo Galicia presents a new proposal for modification for its environmental and urban evaluation where it approved the following changes with respect to the 2015 modification: it proposes to move from twelve to eight aerogeers of three megawatts. On 27 June, the Council agreed to approve the amendment of the final approval of the sectoral project of supra-municipal impact called the Oribio wind park and in the midst of these two issues, of the application and approval of the Council — once again, opacity and obstruction of the work of the groups that are defending the country, who are defending the environment, the heritage, etc. — this amendment was not taken out of public exhibition — it was in full Nature — because it was considered that they were non-substantial amendments, non-substantial changes which were declared by the Director-General of Energy and Mines, the defendant Mr Tahoces. This was the key. I couldn't get out of the public exhibition, so people could defend themselves, claim, couldn't get out. Therefore, non-substantial changes have been considered, knowing the company already then that it would have to change the access pathways, but the question that did not record in the modification project. It was declared not substantial, it was not exposed in public exhibition and then there were even collectives like Adega, who requested access to the file in February and received documentation eight months later, four days before the final approval of the sectoral project of supramunicipal incidence was published in the DOG. Once again, the Government of Galician Union, hiding fundamental information to know if it was endangering the values of this special conservation area, which is the Oribio saw and fundamental to know whether they were substantial changes or not. Well, yet, the company started the works without permission from the board. They had to carefully paralyze those works and now they resumed. The company changed access routes with respect to the modification project, because it was the only way to prevent substantial changes and to leave the public exhibition. I mean, in short, a letter processing for friends, which will end up in a true tragedy for a natural space where there should never be any air-lifter, none. Only a negligent process can allow that. And finally, he said that in 2009, when the sectoral project of supramunicipal incidence was approved, the normative content was not published. Well, the sectoral project of supramunicipal impact — the amendment — was published on 14 August this year. For we say: the acts of implementation of a sectoral project of supramunicipal impact whose normative content has not been published are null and void of legal effectiveness. All the works that are being done must therefore be carefully paralyzed to avoid serious damage that would eventually be irreversible. We want the work to be stopped immediately and the file to be reviewed and the resolution to be annulled. It can't be that, when it comes to the conclusion that the administrative processing was totally negligible, all the damage is already done, which is already partly done, in a place where there should never be an wind farm. So we ask to save Oribio, we ask to put an end to this spy model that goes over the values that we should preserve in this country. Our heritage, our nature, our landscape...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u253	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u254	...value much more than all the benefits that you can derive from these operations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. We now turn to the intervention of the parliamentary groups. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Verao has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u256	Thank you, President. We began by saying the obvious: the installation of a wind farm in the Iribio saw is an ecological and social attack, but also an administrative shambles in its processing. First. Let's say — who hasn't been in the Iribio can understand it the same way as they transmit the associations and the neighborhood of the area — that we are faced with an exceptional stoppage for the conservation of threatened ornithological species and a habitat of special conservation of the brown bear. It has valuable turbulence habitats, some already destroyed by the works, even by those works made without permission, already in June; these turbulence habitats are essential, for example, to know our climate throughout history. There's an enemies like the dwarf oak. We talked, in addition, of an iconic place for our history, a whole saw -- it was done -- crossed by a real road and arreiros that connected Ponferrada to the interior of Galicia; it's a path that preserves footprints like portals, sales and roads, some that have inevitably been destroyed. We have, of course, marbles -- some of them already destroyed, practically destroyed as well -- fogs, a chapel -- finally, we find ourselves on a stop from it that we can see Eiros' cave, an element that is also essential throughout European history, not just for our country. We can see The Background, we can see a lot of interior landscape. We're in an area that's a central space that allows us to be located in our country. But if it wasn't enough the argument of being building an wind park with mills 152 meters high in a range with such characteristics, included in the full Nature Network and therefore against the guidelines and laws of the Poles, which prohibit, as it has already been exposed, the construction of new wind parks on the Natura Network, if it wasn't enough, we found ourselves with the administrative chauffeur of its processing. Let's hope it's possible to brake it. It's a chapuza, of course, allowed; not only allowed, but encouraged by a government that is at the service of large energy companies and not at the service of benefits to communities. Paraphrasing the counselor, it's not here that trees, animals, and neighborhoods are protected. Not selected between any of these, just protecting companies, just. Just because of the recent events, because there is no time to degrade all the processing of this park, already speaking of this modification, in the last of the amendments submitted in 2018 by Fergo Galicia Vento, it is curious that this amendment, as has already been exposed by the proponent, does not include the change of access. The company actually made a change of access, starting works without the relevant permits of the Directorate General of Heritage or the Industry Council. In principle they were also works without a municipal license, modifying access to the park. What's going on? That did not include it in the amendment you presented before the Board, the amendment that the Board finally approved, because it would mean — yes — a substantial modification of the project, and this would force you to have a new public exposure period, extend the procedure and even the possibility that this environmental impact declaration, already questionable, will expire in 2005 because it expires in December of this year. So, we found ourselves without the possibility of fully evaluating the impacts of this park. I say entirely, because this project is segregated between what the park itself is, the high-voltage line, and then also because of these accesses. This is not of course an exclusive thing unfortunately from the Iribio saw, it's something that is a modus operandi from the processing of wind farms in this country. So, from June on, we found that Fergo Galicia Wind is making access to the wind park for a different place where it had approved the project without the relevant authorizations, because it's in an area of the Natura Network, it needs environmental authorization, it's in an area that affects a BIC like the Way of Santiago, it needs authorization from the General Heritage Directorate, and we understand that the subsequent Board will grant, if it has not already granted these permits, and here everything will remain the same. The Council approved this amendment on 14 August, and approved it on 27 June — I think I should like to remind you — but it was not publicly stated in the report of the Council of the European Union's agreements, and it was approved by the Council of the European Union without the agreement of the Council of the European Union - or at least not by us - if the company has sent the documents which the Council itself requested from it, both documents from the Directorate-General of Heritage, as an archaeological report, as environmental documents. Finally, a whole administrative chapuza is the greatest glory of an energy company. And by adding elements, a macabre irony: now the Union promotes the declaration as a reservation to the biosphere of the Sacred Ribeira, the Courel and the Iribio greenhouse, which is totally incompatible with an wind park not only on the Natura Network, rather than in community interest...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u257	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u258	...in a special conservation area. Finally, we defend the interests of neighbouring and "Save the Iribio" platform against the interests of predatory companies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u259	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez Verao. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Vilán Lorenzo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u260	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. The truth is, when we analyzed the non-law proposal of the Left Joint Group, we were first to put the first request of the first non-law motion, the original, which was of the month of May, and in September, these days, on Friday, there was a self-amendment of the En Marea Group on that first request, and the fact is that we were a little surprised at the request for a review of the office of resolutions and acts, which can be requested from the Administration without any doubt, but the result of that revision was already being made by the request for annulment. We've also requested the complete file from the Government. We don't have it yet. We've been asking for it for quite a while, but we haven't had it yet. Through article 9, we expect that at some point because, as in other cases, if it gives us quickly; most of the time it's not. But if we do understand that if there is indeed a procedure that violates the effective legality, the proceeding would be to go to the Procurator's Office and that the Environment Prosecutor's Office urges the Union to stop the procedure immediately, because it can do so. We have registered an amendment, which we believe does not fix or give light on the procedure, because we do not, but we do believe that it can go to the bottom of the matter. The first is to urgently process an amendment to the law that created the wind canon and the Environmental Compensation Fund, of 2009, derogating the fourth transitional provision, which introduces doubts about... I don't know if the Members of the People's Group have much to tell, but really, President, I'm really upset a little bit that they're opening their mouths every time some or some of us get out here. [[Murmurs.]] We believe that this fourth transitional provision should be repealed, which is not light, but rather the opposite: it brings darkness about wind farms on protected areas such as the Natura Network. — Especially for the two Members of the People's Parliamentary Group. Also, that the impact of the construction of the wind farm is evaluated, because it is possible that, according to the ecological organizations, there are brown bears in this area, and that the protection of heritage and cultural elements, such as the Royal Way, as the spokesperson of the Mixed Group, is tightened. To locate us, the Oribio saw is between Samos and Triacastela, and it's Nature Network and it's at the LIC Anchors-The Courel, and, in addition, it's true that the Galician Union has recently asked UNESCO to declare itself a biosphere reserve. I would like to make clear something which I think is necessary in this debate: the Socialist Parliamentary Group is absolutely in favour of wind farms and is in favour of renewable energy. It's more: we've been telling the Government of the People's Party that we've lost ten valuable years to boost renewable energies, that the Government of Emilio Pérez Touriño had boosted at the time. But we're against the placement of wind farms in the Natura Network. So much so that law of December 22, 2009, prohibits wind farms in areas of Natura Network. What's the matter? We must comply with the law, therefore. That there is a special transitional provision, the fourth, in particular, and the fifth, which refers to the 2001 Decree and which allows all those wind farms that started before 2009 to continue, even though they are on the Natura Network. That's the fundamental problem. That's why there's this wind farm; if not, it wouldn't exist. In addition, we have already asked on his day to repeal this transitional provision. We believe that it is necessary to overthrow. And, in addition, I repeat, the possible return of the brown bear to this area, which comes from the Cantabria and that several ecological organizations say that it can actually be checked because there are footprints and there are excrements, implies that the opening of a wind farm on that path of entry of the bear in our country because it can influence the lack of recovery. It would also be good if Mr. Feijó's government, once and for all, drew up a plan of bear, which does not exist. And then there's the possible impact, as I said earlier, on the works that have already been carried out on heritage and cultural elements.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u261	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u262	We hope that our amendment will be accepted, and we really believe that if the procedure — when we have it, when we have it, will be studying it — raises doubts as to its legality, what we have to do is to go to the courts, because coming to the Parliament of Galicia, with forty and one Members and Members of the People's Party, will not serve us very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u263	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. On behalf of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u264	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. First of all, we should also greet the people who accompany us today, who are members of the Platform in the defense of the Oribio saw, and who must also be thanked for what has been done and much more surely than we had originally planned for the debate of this initiative, and it is an effort — I know, and many of the people who are here in the Chamber — to come from Lugo to Santiago de Compostela. So you also greet them first and thank them for the effort and want to be part of the debate today since the guest banquet. We from the BNG, still waiting for the final resolution of the amendments that have been tabled, some of them by the proposed group itself, we will support the initiative. And in that sense the reason is clear and strong: we are opposed to the construction of wind farms in natural and protected areas of enormous environmental and heritage value, also cultural, as is today the Oribio mountain, a greenhouse that is — some of the issues have already been emerging in previous interventions— Natura 2000 Network is a special conservation area and area of special protection of natural values Anchors-The Courel, is a place of Community interest, it is well of cultural interest — Santiago Road, French Way, by course, heritage of humanity as a whole — is a transit area — as it was said — of the brown bear, a species collected in the Yellow Catalogue of threatened species, is a space — if it was commented — which also aspires to be declared a biosphere reserve in the candidature that boosts the Gaulice Union itself for the Sacred Ribeira and the Oribio and The Courel. It therefore does not seem compatible to build an wind farm with the proper protection it demands — I insist — a natural space of these characteristics. And we say it's not compatible, it's not compatible today, for three reasons basically. First. The Oribio — I insist much on this — is the Nature Network and the law — it was also indicated — expressly prohibits the construction of wind farms in the Natura Network since 2009; article 31 of this Law of wind exploitation. There was talk of the fourth transitional provision and the fifth transitional provision; in the fifth transitional period, it declares the suspension, to be literal with the content of the law, of those processing projects affected by the extension of the Natura Network, in which the project of this listed park was found once approved. And that happened with the approval of the Rector Plan in 2014, thus being excluded from that final approval for its implementation. That's what legislation says from 2009. Secondly, the project was authorised more than a decade ago, with a declaration — moreover, it was also indicated — of the environmental impact that dates back to fourteen years ago, which was adopted in 2005, which does not take into account the heritage, landscape and environmental protection currently in force in the Oribio greenhouse. And — a reality, above all — does not contemplate the process of processing this wind farm, or much less that declaration of environmental impact, the current regulatory framework, which today is completely different from when this process of processing this wind farm began. Thirdly, we are talking about a project that has been modified — it was also explained earlier — in its layout, but also in its own power of air carriers, which implies a greater impact on the territory — I insist much — a protected natural space Nature Network in our country. The height was first indicated, the dimensions of these aerogerators, by saying how many meters of altitude they are currently going to have in the current project. But that's 16 more meters from the project originally planned, and also, in the case of the passes, 20 percent higher than its length — hence, its impact on the territory too — to which they were originally projected. It has changed our country greatly in fourteen years if we have as our reference point that environmental impact statement now made for good, or almost twenty years since the processing process started for the construction of this park. We understand that it is urgent to act to protect the greenhouse today, among other things -- it was also said — because the works began and the ecological and heritage prejudice, the impact on this territory may have, may be in many irreversible cases.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u265	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u266	Works which were started — it was also said — illegally, which even caused the intervention of the Union itself to paralyze them even if it was only temporary. I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u267	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u268	A few minutes ago, with the presence of the Environmental Adviser, he talked about the need to protect, the need to respect the environment and the protected spaces and the immense value they contain. Turns out we have Nature Network and a space on the protection level of the Oribio right now open in the channel.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u269	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u270	We understand that right now, fourteen years after that environmental impact statement and almost twenty years after the process started...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u271	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u272	...it has no place to be. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u273	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to Mrs. Novoa Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u274	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Again, Mr. Sánchez, with an initiative against an wind farm. At least you don't rule, as they did at that time in 2007 when they authorized you to build this wind farm. Because if we didn't, we'd have to go back to the candile, because if they're against the wind turbine, they're against the thermals, and we'd have to go back to the wagon, because they're also against the diesel cars. Your Honor, it's only too bad that you don't rule like that at the time. [[Applause]] Look, you say a friendly company. Because it would be the government's friendly two-party company, which was the one that authorized the license of this wind farm in 2007. It would be your friendly company. Ladies and gentlemen, this wind park is a project that was authorized in 2007 by the two-party government; an wind park that contained twelve air carriers and at one time, in 2007, where the Iribio saw was not Nature Network; at one time, Your Honor, at that time the installation of air carriers on the Natura Network was not prohibited. It had to be a government of the People's Party that canceled, which ended, which ended with a chaotic wind contest of the Bipartisan Government and which also declared — Mrs. Vilan, the Government of the People's Party in December 2009, with the Law of December 2009 — that no wind could be installed on the Natura Network, Your Honor. The only thing that made Junta this year, in 2019, was to give green light to a non-substantial modification of the project, which allowed the environmental impact of this wind project to be minimized, from twelve aerogeors to eight. But this amendment also has all the necessary favourable reports: that of Natural Heritage, that of Cultural Heritage or those of Environment and Urbanism. Ladies and gentlemen, what you do with this wind farm is what you do with all the wind projects that are installed in Galicia: you keep an eye on compliance with all the requirements set out in both the environmental impact declaration and the administrative resolution itself. And you, Mr. Sánchez, should do the same: respect and comply with the law. And if there are environmental conditions imposed, of course controls will be intensified so that there is no environmental impact. As for the paralyzing of the works, making it clear that they are the works of access to the park, they are not subject to permission granted. And if these works are wrong, it is logical that they should be paralyzed; all agree. The most surrealist, ladies and gentlemen, of all this is that all of you — and you, Mr Sánchez — were involved in the Galician Nationalist Block in 2007. If you gave him a license after an environmental statement in 2005, they'd see that it was all right. [[Murmurs.]] Or why were you licensed then in 2007? If you guys saw any irregularities, I suppose they wouldn't give you a license. [[Murmurs.]] Look, environmentally, at that time, the Oribio saw was an important landscaped area. You could change the law and you didn't, Your Honor, at that time; we did change it and now you can't install windmills on the Natura Network. Look, we have fulfilled the laws; you, no. They don't respect them or meet them. That's the difference between us and you, gentlemen. And, unfortunately, Mr. Sánchez, in Galicia, wind will be installed, and we are a power wind. Eighteen projects are to be installed, with an investment of more than four hundred million euros, 440 megawatts of power, lordship, and five thousand jobs to be created during construction and subsequent maintenance. That's what weighs them, gentlemen! That's what it weighs on you. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Look, since the Galician Council is pushing the clean energies, fulfilling the legality, Your Honor. And yes, yes, we approve here a Business Implementation Act. [[Murmurs.]] You tell me — I'm right when you come here — that environmental guarantee has been annulled by that law. What was it? All that was done was to reduce deadlines, reduce bureaucracy and reduce deadlines. No guarantee, no environmental, no technical, no urban guarantee! Tell me! I object when he comes here, who has a second intervention. And for you, socialist gentlemen and BNG, I remind them: they were part of that bipartisan government. BNG's advisor was Industry Counsellor. Your Honor, why did you get this license? [[Murmurs.]] At that moment... Hey! Then they changed the law! [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the most surrealist is that they want to be filled with legal insecurity and instability, as they do in the Spanish Government, by changing a law and making it possible now to cancel the wind farms with a previous license. [[Murmurs.]] Hey! It's just, look, they don't want Galicia what they're doing in Spain; gentlemen, we don't want it. Look, mixed group gentlemen, I know they have a magistrate among you. But, look, you understand that this humble group doesn't trust the decisions of the wind farms that their partner can make. Keep them, it's not gonna be that they're eliminated by the Supreme Court, Mr. Villares; we don't trust their judgements from the wind. [[Applause]] As far as I am concerned, ladies and gentlemen, at the Iribio wind farm, it is a project authorized in 2007 by the Bipartite, before it was declared the Natura area, with an administrative authorization granted that cannot be contravened. Leave the demagogy and obey the law! For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u275	Thank you very much, Mrs. Novoa. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Sánchez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u276	It is clear that Mrs. Novoa has only bothered by reading the argumentary and not the file... yes, yes, there is a huge ignorance, a huge ignorance. [[Murmurs.]] Look, if you'd met... well, calm down, I didn't tell you anything. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I mean, you totally don't know what we're talking about; otherwise, I wouldn't say the barbarities you just said. [[Murmurs.]] You say: the access works are not in the modification project.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u277	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u278	Who said that? Of course they are, and they've actually changed, precisely to ensure that the changes were considered non-substantial and not to have to expose them publicly, because all the processing was a real fraud in favor of a friendly company. And you're talking to me about a friend company? Yes, a friendly company, founded by a conciliator of the People's Party with Mr. Blackira, member of the group, a gentleman who was brother-in-law of the Director General of Energy and Mines when the declaration of environmental impact was approved. You see how they treat friendly companies that used to say no to me, that the government didn't approve of it in function. It was worse: the declaration of environmental impact was signed by José Manuel Álvarez-Campana on August 12, a day after the public exhibition of this project was finished, when Mr. Touriño was already president, before he had been released as CEO. That's the moral legacy of the People's Party, and those are the benefits that friendly companies receive. So you're less of a lesson to me. And that was the processing of this park, scandalous... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u279	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u280	...a scandalous one, and you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u281	Quiet...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u282	...they have to answer in front of citizenship why they've been hiding the modification project for eight months, because there was no public exposure, but they've hidden the project for eight months, as Mr. Tahoces usually does when he has to do this to benefit a company. And that's done, it's not my opinion, understand? And you say, you can't make propellers on the Natura Network. You can do it! They're already doing it in an area of special conservation and protection of natural values, and they're doing it in the dark and committing fraud. And as for the PSdeG, because of course we're going to Justice, we're going to Justice, Mrs Vilan, we're going to Justice. But it'll be late if we don't move before, we mobilize before, and we all stand firm against this looting. Because they are already irreversibly damaging much of the heritage of the Oribio saw, which was intended to preserve when the Natura Network was declared before 2007. Mrs. Novoa, you understand, it was in 2004 when it was already Nature Network, which has no idea. Do you understand? So, let's bring it to Parliament, bring it to Parliament... who shout what they want, who shout what they want, who prepare things first, to bring it to Parliament so that it can be known, so that we know how the People's Party handles when it comes to wind business. [[Murmurs.]] Of course we want wind turbines.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u283	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u284	What we don't want is for them to keep stealing, like in the rivers, like in the lignite, you know?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u285	Mr. Sánchez...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u286	We want that windmill to serve people and not to be carried by four friends of the People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u287	About the amendments? I'm sorry, I didn't hear him. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u288	On the amendments we believe that the Joint Group is already in our own, our own amendment. The PSdeG can accept it as an addendum, the derogation from the fourth transitional provision, but taking into account that it will not have retroactive effects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u289	Thank you very much. We moved on to the next non-law proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the allocation by the Government of Greece to Sergas of the economic resources necessary to negotiate at the sectoral table a work stability plan allowing public job offers to be convened
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u290	An amendment was tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group and by the Group of the German Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u291	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Solla Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u292	Thank you, President. At the doors of a new budget, in spite of the excuses that will be used in the next few months in the economic debate, we wanted to bring this initiative here today, because we felt it important to give the global debate after all the partial debates that we are having and that we have previously attended and that, after having resumed this session, we also took place in relation to the staff shortage situation that the Galician Health Service has and the relationship it has with the possibility of budgeting departures. Today we ask that we urge the Union to provide Sergas with sufficient economic resources to be able to negotiate a stability plan at the sectoral table that meets the appropriate ratios and enables public job offers to be convened in order to end the abuse of temporary employment and work overload. In the interventions of the People's Party it is quite customary — and it has now been used — to abuse an element that seems to have fallen from the sky, which seems to be unprofessional because there is simply responsibility for professionals or they have mysteriously been reduced or disappeared, as if no kind of political decision had any relation to this element and no kind of relationship with any kind of economic decision. And now that we are already ten years from the beginning of this so long crisis of capitalism, we are closing this crisis with an obvious loss of rights for the working class, it closes against the working class; that's the way in which we are. A loss that is not only in the economy — of course also in the economy — but also in the social sector. The poorest people because they have lower wages, because their working conditions are worse, because they're more precarious, but they're more poor, too, because, in addition to that, it adds to them that the public services that the State has been slimming and that therefore the elements that have these working people to access the fulfilment of their fundamental rights are because I think they are damaged by death in many cases and in many damaged services in a way that will be very difficult to recover them regardless of whether they change a government, at least hard to recover them in a small margin of time. That is why during all these years we have been discussing how the parties, essentially the People's Party, were dealing with the crisis of capitalism as a neoliberal model economically. And that was translated into a first phase of cuts and a second in which, although we were told that there was economic growth, there was expenditure not to invest and maintain the State's previous slimming. In other words, the crisis closes as the capitalist crises are always closed: with worse conditions for public services. This situation has led to the justification of depreciation of squares within public health systems for not having to provide them economically and, of course, with human resources. And, therefore, in today's day -- if you can come these muds -- retirements through and less squares and fewer beds in public health, we have a health that can hardly bear a situation where there was no generational remittance, because there was an intention to slow down that public health. Of course, now we can't put our hands to the head with the right side replacement rate, because you've defended her here. And I've been in those debates on many occasions and I remember the debates with Mrs. Rocío Mosquera, even before, and they were firm defenders that in the face of the crisis it was better to cut off the working class. Now we see the result of these problems and now you call on others — obviously we also demand — to eliminate that rate of rest. And, of course, there was an agreement here, there were previous agreements, but they didn't meet. And today, today, we should be talking about why these problems arise in a health system that is thinned and that doesn't have just -- you know -- a relationship with an increase in income. We have always argued economically that it was necessary to increase the revenue, increase the resources from the State, which had to address the autonomous financing, that we had to fight tax fraud, but we have, I think, tabled partial amendments to their own budget, which were not accepted at any time. Proposals, amendments, all voted against, and now, one year from the autonomics, there are no health personnel because simply, divinely, health professionals have disappeared. NURSE Companions in Louta are hanging on their social networks quite commonly the number of contracts, lately they're doing a campaign that is quite well known. The other day, some also came out in the Health Committee, and I think we could set an example here today. Some woman said she had been available for 12 years, with 491 contracts, of them 278 a day. Another had been available for ten years, with 183 contracts, 84 days a day. Another of them had been available for 12 years, with 561 contracts — a barbarity — 378 of them a day or less a day. Therefore, the current situation of precariousness, the current situation of lack of professionals comes from the purely economic decisions of their model over ten years. The depreciation of squares is a voluntary decision to maintain work precariousness, which then translates into complaints and convictions for the Galician Health Service. And -- we're talking about it here -- recruitment that ultimately causes fraud to social security itself, people who fire on weekends so they don't have to pay those weekends or pay those weekends. It's an absolutely unacceptable situation within a public administration. That's the global situation and I wonder what's going to happen at the doors of a new economic exercise, what's going to be the planning by the Galician Union. Because, of course, what you can't keep cuts for ten years and come to wash your face here, transferring the sole responsibility to another administration, which has responsibility, but which is not the sole responsibility, gentlemen of the People's Party. And we must also remember the responsibility of the Government of Mr. Mariano Rajoy, of all governments, of Mr. Zapatero, of Mr. Mariano Rajoy and of the present. But you governed most of the time and defended here—we had a lot of debates—the replacement rate, when you were squirting professionals and when you were forced to retire to the professionals. They tell us what they want, but the problem we have right now is that it's in a working class that you see to have no resources to pay private health services, to have worse pensions, to have worse wages, and that's your responsibility. He defended it here, and there's the hemerotheque and the video library of this Parliament from now on to remind us of all the debates we've had in these last two legislations. This timing is selected by you. Hire a nurse on Monday, Wednesday and Friday not to pay her for the rest of the days, it's a political and economic decision corresponding to a model, to her model. And now let's put our hands on it. Of course, in other communities they also applied deficit restrictions, which we do not defend. And I remember a debate in a committee when I was a new Member in whom I spoke about the hateful debt and the Members of the People's Party laughed at me because they didn't understand what the concept of hate debt was. From those beginnings of the economic crisis now come the results and many consequences of these cuts overcome and are seen now. There are no more than two hundred or more than two hundred professionals in public health because if they die, they go away because there are people who have no capacity to live with wages and the working conditions here, they have to go, or others decide to go to work for a private because, although wages are absolutely low, working conditions allow them to have at least one schedule. And we've discussed it here on many occasions. And that's the point of the matter. If they don't start stabilising jobs, they'll never be able to have a mass of workers prepared to cover the task of quickly replacing a professional. Of course there must be pool lists, before they were, but now we're all possible professionals, they're all possible. All my companions who don't have a fixed spot are what you used to know as a pool, which were quick call lists; one person was missing two hours earlier for a disease and they were called. Now everyone's good for those contracts. Precautionary is absolute and professionals have been saying it for a long time. And even though you've made every effort to try to look like nothing happened, protests and nursing staff are kept every month making a protest, remembering that this requires a solution that is political and requires will and requires budgeting. And I'm done, I'm out of time. I said this in the committee: at the end of July, the report of the Board of Auditors came out, we gave a press round, and we apologized publicly to the President — who is not here today — for his lies. I repeat once again: here they have heard real lies about data from public professionals. We ask you to apologize, admit the error and acknowledge that precariousness is the norm, as the Board of Auditors indicates.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u293	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. You have the floor by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u294	Yes, Sergas is one of the greatest examples of how the Greek public administration itself precariouss the working class of Galicia, already precariously. But, indeed, as the rapporteur pointed out and as we said in the previous debate, it is a model issue, it is a clear intention to reduce investment in public health. If we take the real terms into account, we'd have to get back in the budgets, because we're at the door of that debate, more than 600 million euros just to reverse the cuts that have taken place since 2008. Speaking of precariousness in Sergas, first, temporality rates are intolerable. These lies — which are clearly lies — of both Feijóo and the manager of Sergas, speaking of this stability of professionals over 80%, contradict their own report from the Board of Auditors in these control reports referred to by Sergas and which have been sent to this Parliament. The timing rates continue to be high: 40% in specialized care, 28.1% in primary care; the data are 2017, but the report itself indicates an annual increase in this data as compared to 2016. Next to this reality, what is it, what is it? For the lack of fixed squares, the depreciation of jobs, the refusal to convert into fixed posts that have to be structurally reinforced by possible ones. These are structural needs that do not cover that low public job supply. Right now we've come to join our group with one of the spokespersons of Events in Fighta, who actually denounce this absolute precariousness that prevents them from a minimum reconciliation of their working and family life. They speak of such abuse in eventual recruitment — which also confirms by condemning Sergas — that abuse of the accumulation of tasks and of a series of issues that Sergas must correct already, because that lack of family reconciliation is completely and above all women. And then here we hear these appeals for the necessity of a law of demographic impulse, condemning the working girls of Sergas to an impossibility of deciding whether they want to be mothers or not and, in addition, overloading all staff. And another consequence, of course, is the quality of care, because it is humanly impossible, despite the great professionalism of Sergas staff, to guarantee a minimum quality of care with quotas of impossible patients. By chance, these twenty-eight patients per nurse in hospitals such as that of the Navy or Monforte, as we have reported, because these staff are required to prioritize tasks. Care and care such as care, help and advice to improve rehabilitation, logically they have to stand out for more priority issues. Sergas is, as we said, an example of bad practice by abusing this eventual recruitment. He was reminded of judgments by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, which confirms Sergas' convictions for fraudulently abusing temporary recruitment. What's the system? Indemnify, as has already been stated, professional contracts that actually have an indefinite employment relationship with the Administration. In the end, these squares are structural and are fundamental to the provision of service. It's a basic thing. But, finally, it was put throughout this whole stage, both of the crisis and of the postcrisis -- or whatever we want to call it, but we don't come out of the crisis -- above the labor rights and even the assistance rights of the population, that sacrosanct mantra of budgetary stability, and here we are. That is why we will support the allocation of resources for Sergas in order to put in place the negotiation of that demanded stability plan at the sectoral table to meet the appropriate needs and allow public job offers to enable the consolidation of those jobs that are necessary for the service. Because -- let's talk about it -- we're one of the countries with worse rates of both nursing and physiotherapy, or matrons, by setting an example. One of the amendments we have made has to do with one of the subterfuges that Sergas supports to deny this excessive rate of temporality is the lack of transparency. The unions, the health groups, the opposition groups continually ask Sergas for this detailed information about which are both the squares that exist in each EOXI in each service, retirement forecasts and which differ from the fixed recruitment of time. This data was repeatedly requested and never reached. We consider it to be an approach to the non-law proposition. But regardless of that, we will also support it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u295	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez Verao. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u296	Yeah, look, you know, we found out today that the health problem isn't German and it's not from the People's Party. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, It's exciting! I swear, I almost shed my tears. Of course, we've been here one day after another, one week after another, one month after another, telling them that it's a model problem. Indeed, it is a model problem in which the People's Party enthusiastically believes, of course. It's a model problem; a model problem where it starts with funding; a model problem where you, like good colonized, allow that Madrid centralism to be what has the key to the box of our resources, our wealth, our taxes. And then they come to us with these "things" so summery that "of course, Madrid doesn't send us money." If they were to plant, if they wanted us to own our own, they wouldn't have to walk asking others because we would own our own. So you're so guilty and it's your problem, the People's Party, because you believe in this model, in this part. [[Applause]] And in the next part too, because, of course, apart from believing in the model, as to who decides, as he decides and when he decides, it turns out that then the People's Party enthusiastically sets in motion measures, or if he doesn't put them into action then he doesn't eliminate them, as is the case with the replenishment rate. They say: We don't have doctors, is... what happened to the replacement rate? The Socialist Party, of course. We report it here, not you. We denounced him here and asked him to retire, not you. But you had two legislations in the Government and you didn't withdraw it, nor did you ask him to retire. They're coming down now. Okay, but in any case, we can buy them that Madrid is so bad, that the Central Government is so bad, when the People's Party isn't, and it turns out that it's because of Madrid's measures. But, look, the continuity contract for doctors and nurses, who sent the People's Party, Sergas, to put it in motion, that contract that further undermines the conditions of workers and workers? Who? I think it was a decision by the German Government, applauded by you. We can go on: garbage contracts. And it's not a last-minute complaint, like yours, but we've been with her for years. We're going back to the hemero library -- this is fantastic -- "I've been working on Sergas twelve years and signed 350 contracts." And like this worker, thousands. "In a seven-hour shift I worked in three hospitals." I suppose those in charge of this used to pick up the phone and call Madrid to ask them if they could start this type of contract, right? I'm saying it, because they have no responsibility. "I was screened for a year for refusing surgery because I have no experience." Because that's another, of course, the conditions in which professionals often work. Who is responsible for this precarious situation in Sergas and for hiring here in Galicia? For only and exclusively from the People's Party, which believes that this state of public health deterioration is its road map. And the best mechanism to damage public health, so that we have a high-quality health care, is to act negatively on staff frameworks and on working conditions. I've told you before, in the previous intervention, that if you go suffocating, it's for the immense and good work of professionals and professionals. So, besides, you insist on bringing in and saying here a whole series of uncontrast and unconfirmed data, without knowing where they come from. That's why we, from BNG, are going to support En Marea's initiative, but we have tabled an amendment asking that a human resources reorganisation plan be carried out within six months to find out how many professionals there are, where, how and how. Because it's good that you try to impose a fraudulent account day yes and day too, with data that we don't know where they're taken from -- we don't know where they're taken from -- so that soon it's the Board of Auditors, whether it's the budget or any other agency that systematically dismisses it. That's why we call for this to be done, and also for that request and the creation of public job offers to be made with all the vacant squares and all the categories, because then it's not good for you to say that you take all these squares, but accumulated in a number of categories, when you're dismantling many others and making these squares go directly to the private company. Therefore, Mr People's Party Member, if it is the fault of the People's Party in Galicia and the German Government to a great extent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u297	Thank you very much. Mr Torrido Quintela has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u298	Thank you, President. We talked about these interventions that preceded me from some contracts, from some examples that have been put by the professionals who work in the system, and the truth is that we've been discussing so many hours of these issues that maybe, too, in addition to the starting positions and the models we're defending, it contributes to this debate -- and I think it's very enriching -- to talk about what professionals are doing, which you see by the Government are not paying attention to their realities. By putting something in a specific version, I think this can contribute. Some of the cases cited -- and by translating it -- are the 350 contracts in twelve years. Sometime it was quite bloodier even, and we all know it. If we assume that these twelve years work practically twelve years -- practically full twelve years, there may be times that don't -- this is a contract every two weeks. This means -- to really put it -- to have to renew every fifteen days, without knowing whether you're going to renew or not, to have to be available on your mobile for twelve years of your life, twenty-four hours a day and seven days a week, because, if they call you and say no, you're going down the list; that's, twelve years hired, every fifteen days and available 24-7. This is the model. It's not a case, it's not two, it's tens, hundreds of similar cases. You remember what the counselor said about this model: Here's what's going on! It was an interview, it's written. He didn't deny it, he was inconspicuous: Here's what's going on! Two weeks, you finish a contract; luckily, a new contract; luckily, another one. It's possible to ask a person who's hired like this: if I work twelve years every 15 days at the same job, who's the smart guy who doesn't make a 12-year contract? Of course, we can think: it's not always at the same job. Well, let's go one step further. So, we're not going to the professionals anymore, we're going to justice, which sentence Sergas for fraudulent recruitment, for the torturing use of the system, for potentially hiring nurses for using structural positions. Justice. This is the model. But there's one more question: why can anyone think it's useful, interesting, good and efficient to hire someone for twelve years every two weeks? I changed the example: a year's decline, announced. He's a new professional. Okay, good. Do you make a one-year contract? No, you make a one-month contract, after three weeks, then you deal from Monday to Friday, fire on a Friday and deal on a Monday. The next week, Friday is festive and deals until Thursday, deals again on Monday... There are hundreds of identical contracts. This is the model of the system, the system of "that's what there The Human Resources Officer in this Parliament, on the question of why there is a sentence that says we hire fraudulently, responds - you can thank sincerity - "Well, we don't always hire fraudulently." Literal. There aren't always fraudulent contracts in Sergas, it's a joy. This is Sergas' work model. And now you answer me: how can it be possible to maintain the quality of a system when professionals are subjected to this situation? Impossible! It's a political decision, purely a political decision. Which is a legitimate model, we don't share it, and we think it's inefficient and bad. It's a political position. If you're not ashamed of your position, that's your model. Of course, with that one we're going to end badly, we're not going the right way anymore. That's your system: exploit and take advantage of the professionals who respond, they defend the system. So what are they doing? Working more than they should, assuming the saturations and responding to a system in which every day they go home they wonder if someone is playing darts to decide with regard to Sergas. Our question can sometimes be the same, though, the truth, if you see the data, you know that someone is playing darts and that, in addition, throws them away wrong.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u299	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u300	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u301	Thank you very much. The People's Parliamentary Group has the floor Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u302	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Solla, this subject is also discussed in the last committee. I am grateful that you, at least, had brought an initiative that is not textually the same. The commission referred more to the nursing. Allow me a few seconds to address Mr. Torrado. Mr. Torrado, don't cheat, the figures you give are from the Medical College and the Nursing College of doctors by inhabitants, not from public doctors; they may be private or may be licensed who are working without a specialty in companies and mutuals. The data from the public gives me, which are on the website of the Ministry of Health... : 5 communities with the worst rate of cards per nurse, 7 communities with the worst ratio of cards per pediatrician, 12 communities with the worst ratio of cards per family doctor. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Twelve! Check the data, I have them there, in the folder. And I'm not talking anymore about the quotas of more than 1,500 and more than 2,000 people who are there too. Check them out, see where there is and where there is not. Galician, no. [[Applause]] The same trap makes the subject of contracts. You haven't worked in primary care, at least not in a medical or nursing facility, which are the conflicting ones. You know that if I ask for a day and they come to replace me -- for a change, for the death of a relative, for a week's vacation or whatever -- that's a contract. And many contracts are, of course, one day. Very many. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Yes, yes, yes, very much! [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Yeah, you guys, when they don't want to, they don't count. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] But, look, I'm the first one that I want to make clear, Mrs Solla, is that in 2017 a plan of employment stability and provision of staff-consensual, union-consensual, to stabilize more than 800 squares was approved. These 838 squares — some of them of potential and others of task clusters — have become temporary appointments. Interim appointments have been stable for a lifetime, now it seems not. Interim appointments have been stable all their life. They're stable. The opposition must be approved later, but they're stable, they're from the same place; and they don't jump out of place when you're interim, which is something else that we confuse with a certain ease. It is quite true, Mrs. Solla, that it was not possible to convene all the squares of the OPE. We'll talk before the replenishment rate. You are not to blame, but your group has signed the failed government budgets with Podemos and their groups, and there is no elimination of the spare rate for anything. Don't say you're not responsible. You could have demanded it from the Government of Sánchez to sign it, or even to have ministers from United States. They could have demanded it and they didn't, but they're looking at universities and municipalities, local politics. For the local administration, the replacement rate is lowered or abolished and for universities and research, too; but for health, no. You'll have something to blame, too, won't you? It seems to me a little incongruent to talk about what we're talking about and not to work to eliminate that rate. I don't know if they want the German Government to comply with the basic regulations of the state. I don't know what they want. If all the squares — as you ask — are covered, of course, the rules must be met. Certainly, as a result of the crisis and as a result of what has happened, there has been an increase in the likelihood in the first years of that crisis, forcing more time contracts to be used than would be necessary and especially recommended during the time of economic kindness. But look, Mrs Solla, Galicia has kept OPE annual calls successively from 2010 to 2019; not all autonomous communities have done so. Galicia was the first community to adopt reverse measures. Galicia has always exhausted the replacement rates from 2010, including the stabilization rate, which was approved in 2017. And I told you in the commission that they have withdrawn local education and administration squares to turn them into stabilized health squares. Between 2012 and 2019 Galicia convened about 6,000 OPE squares, in full crisis. And, as I told you, the advisor still asks for the removal of the replenishment rate. In fact, in 2019, the trade unions signed the Agreement on the Bases of the possible statutory appointment of continuity in the field of the Galician Health Service, which applies to doctors and nurses. I'm still defending that contract, and I think any professional who thinks it should defend that contract. It's not the same one day going to one place, another day going to another and having a contract every day to have a contract from three years. I don't think it has anything to do with it. It's just that this obviously lowers the eventuality. And besides, they always forget that the contract is voluntary. There are people who refuse it, but there are also people — professionals — who are signing it. We're talking before Valencia, what measures are being taken in Valencia, where the Socialist Party governs with the confluences and where with 100 million they arrange primary care for four years. Here, 102 million for three years, and it turns out to be little.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u303	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u304	Finished, President. The stability of the staff is negotiating with the unions, but the replacement rate has to be met. And it's moving, ultimately, towards improving the working conditions of Sergas staff after, indeed, some hard years, with increased stability and negotiating with representative unions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u305	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u306	You know that the Union Government is committed to reducing the eventuality to 5%. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u307	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. The author group of the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Solla Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u308	Thank you, President. We'll accept both amendments. And I want to thank the opposition groups for their support. I don't think she's going to go to this either. We'll continue to claim data. I remember here, once again, that in the first session of this legislation — and we are almost finishing — I asked for Sergas' non-structural lists at the very beginning of article 9, and I'm still waiting. Where's that month? I believe that what can't be bleached is a reality that is terrible, Mr. Centeno, for the public system, but also for professionals and professionals. Of course there's a lot of contracts a day! Obviously! There's too many contracts a day! Because one or a professional can accept an element of certain instability and some precariousness when he finishes his studies, but it's that these people have five, six, seven or twelve years in that situation. And that's absolutely unacceptable, because you can't formalize a minimally stable life in those conditions, because it's very difficult to have a decent life and get to the end of the month, but also because the quality of health services is absolutely precarious when professionals are changing one day themselves and another day of service, because you need to have a certain settlement in a service to have a level of knowledge of functioning. It's obvious! And it's not true that all life had been used in this way. Of course there has to be a list for eventualities, because a professional may always be missing, but what's not normal is that this is the norm. And the bonds of internal professionals aren't fixed bonds, unfortunately they're not stable either, because ever since you -- I wanted to explain, listen to the reasoning. [[Mr. Núñez Centeno utters words that are not perceived.]] You're taking out annual transfer contests right now. What happens with the interinstances is that once they re-exist these professionals can last in an interim for a few months. This is happening, and they should review what happens, what happens, because there is precariousness both in interintensities and in other contracts. You say the contracts that you propose a year or three are not precarious. They're precarious, because they don't give guarantees; the contract isn't linked to a specific service. So what happens is that that person can have a daily mobility for every service, and that means precariousness, because if every day or every week a person is working in one place and with a different shift, the only difference in signing contracts every fifteen days, every day or every week is that administrative acts are reduced. The rest is the same, there is no stability, because one cannot plan a person's life if he can change his service every day. That is why we say that this contract, of course, is unacceptable and is a precarious contract. They shouldn't propose this, they should stabilize the job. You say they pull out -- already finished -- OPE every year. It's not true. In these two legislations we did two tests, and in my category, in nursing, there are professional categories that don't carry any.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u309	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u310	With which, it's not true; it's simply false. Do you wonder what we want? We want the public health system to be at the service of a working class...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u311	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u312	...that she is absolutely diminished in her rights.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2019-09-10-DSPG126.u313	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning.
